ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e88	The representative Rolf Terje Klungland, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. From the delegation of the European Parliament to the EFTA Parliamentary Committee and the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee, there is an application for leave, signed by the Head of the delegation, Mr Morten Höglund. The application concerns a permit to attend the meeting in Brussels on 26 and 27 November of the representatives of Hans Kristian Hogsnes, Morten Højlund, Ågot Valle, Finn Martin Vallersnes and Ivar Østberg. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Akershus County: Harald Espelund For Hordaland County: Ragna Flotve For Rogaland County: Inger Lise Aarrestad For Troms County: Leif Christian Johansen For Vestfold County: Marie Kürstein
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e135	The President will propose the election of two Chairman-in-Offices of the European Parliament on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday – and will consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e140	I suggest Anne Berit Andersen and Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e145	Anne Berit Andersen and Øyvind Halleraker are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Anne Berit Andersen and Øyvind Halleraker are unanimously elected as chairpersons for Stortinget’s meetings on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e164	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and up to five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e175	The report under consideration today, on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, is an important document from the Government for several reasons, mainly because it provides an important report on how the government's environmental policy has been implemented and how it affects our environment. However, the Communication on the State of the State of the State is also an overall plan from the Government that tells us what environmental policy direction the Government is working on, what priorities are important, and what strategies and measures are needed to achieve environmental policy objectives. There is hardly any disagreement that this government's environmental exposure and policy has been very clear, to the delight of many, but perhaps also to the annoyance of some. But even the Progress Party, which usually has a somewhat reticent attitude to some environmental policy issues, has stated that this government has a much more active environmental policy than any other previous government. It must be right to rejoice that both the environmental efforts of this government and previous governments have contributed to significant results, although we all know that many important and demanding challenges remain. Let me briefly mention some areas where we have seen good results: emissions of ozone-reducing substances have been significantly reduced both sulphur emissions and NOx emissions to air in the EEA area as a result of mandatory international cooperation emissions from waste treatment have been significantly reduced in recent years due to increased recovery, technological improvements and more stringent emission requirements for the nutrient salts phosphorus and nitrogen respectively have been reduced by 60 pst. and 34 pst. a number of natural parks and other types of protected areas have been established; A nation's awareness of passing on a sustainable environment and unique natural qualities from generation to generation is a measure of its own ethics and attitude to the old cultivation concept. But there are still many areas where it is far ahead. Old environmental sins, such as emissions of PCBs and dioxins with a very long degradation time, do, for example: that we have too many harbour and fjord areas with food production and nutrition restrictions. Although industry, in particular the manufacturing industry, has made a significant contribution in terms of harmful emissions, there is still a major problem with emissions of environmental pollutants. Finally, there is too much of our cultural memories, approx. 1 pst., which disappears annually. On the cultural memory side, however, happy measures are also being taken by this government. However, the main challenges ahead are as follows: we see an increasing use of chemical substances. Today, we know that more than 100,000 chemicals are used in the EEA area. Many of these we know little about the consequences of. Here, however, there is a reassuring process in the design of the EU's new chemicals legislation REACH. Another main challenge is climate emissions, which are too large and are expected to increase by 70 pst. on a global basis towards 2020. Many important countries remain on the side of commitments, and this underlines the need for continued dialogue and new climate negotiations. Børge Brende is making a brilliant effort in this context. Finally, the loss of our biodiversity is a major challenge. Overexploitation of species, pollutants, land use change and the introduction of alien species are key here. In the big news about the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, forest protection has received particular attention, as has the work of the committee. It's a fact that approx. Half of the Norwegian Red List species are found in our forests. Forest protection is therefore important in the future to ensure a varied diversity of forest types and biotopes. It is gratifying that the Government, through the Minister for Environmental Protection Børge Brende, has put this in focus and that it has a positive attitude to the project and the form of work ‘Freedom to protect forests’. But also the organisations of forest owners deserve the approval of political cooperation. In a letter from the Minister for the Environment to the Association of Forests, Børge Brende writes that he: ‘is very pleased with the close cooperation between the Norwegian Forest Organisation and the environmental protection authorities’. He also stresses that ‘there is every reason to invest in voluntary protection as a work form’. This coincides well with the majority's view that if we are to succeed in this work, it must be done in constructive cooperation with respect for both private property rights and the sustainable development of our biodiversity. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation and a great deal of agreement on many important issues. There was a wide-ranging attitude, suggesting that awareness of these issues is also high in the Committee and here in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e228	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e231	The representative Halleraker said in his post that the message determines which priorities are important. In the message we are dealing with today, there is one area in particular that is being raised, and that is that the Government will strengthen forest protection and that it will give priority to the protection of forest types according to the recommendation of the professional evaluation. Once a case rapporteur from the government parties has been elected – yes, even from the same party as the Minister for the Environment – it should be expected to influence the vote. But it doesn't. Instead, it says that: ‘The main challenge in further protection will be to reduce the level of conflict while ensuring good professional quality in forest protection’. The note on voluntary protection is then written up and down. The working party is in favour of voluntary protection, but there are some limits to how many times it can be said, and sometimes it is not possible to reconcile it with the professional recommendations to avoid conflict. My question to the President-in-Office is therefore: what is most important to the Right, to follow the professional recommendations or to avoid conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e245	The representative of Konglevoll asked me what was most important. The most important thing for the Right is that we protect forests to such an extent as the evaluation report and other professional bodies consider important. We believe that the most important thing in this process is to base professionalism. And the joy is that we have had close and good cooperation between the authorities and the forest associations, which I am convinced will lead to just as good results as if we had neglected this positive attitude as we see from the Forest Society. I am convinced that the process we have now set up to designate areas for cooperation between the authorities and the business side will succeed. It will also be exciting to follow the rhetoric of the Workers' Party in the future, if it will continue to be an alternative to coercion. We have also made it clear that the final word must, of course, be with the authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e254	Halleraker said that the Progress Party boasts that the Government has an active environmental policy, but there is no automation in that we agree with all the activity that the Government has started. In connection with the treatment of St. Report. No 12 for 2001–02, ‘Rent and rich seas’, the Progress Party wanted the Government to give priority to the work on emergency ports and coastal sites for ships in distress. That time it was just the Progress Party that meant it. This time, the Working Party, SV and the Centre have also joined that work. And during the debate by Doc. No 8:128 and Doc. No 8:135 said the council Svein Ludvigsen that the work with the port of refuge and the coastal sites should be in place in February. When you look at the comments in the setting today, the government parties do not mention this. I therefore wonder whether the government parties support their own government council in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e263	Yes, I can reassure Korsberg that we support our own state council in this field and in the other fields he is concerned about. I am convinced that he will come into this in a later article. But that is quite correct: I can confirm that we have received information from the Ministry that emergency ports and beaching sites will be in place by February 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e268	The government reports that emissions of hazardous greenhouse gases are increasing much faster than what we have committed ourselves to in relation to the Kyoto agreement. At the same time, we are building projects that will increase emissions more strongly. Let me be quite clear about this: SV has been against the construction of the Snow White field and against the construction of the LNG facility. But when it comes to building, it has to be that we have to try to make it as environmentally friendly as possible. At the Minister of Environment's table there is an appeal from environmental protection organisations. They ask the Ministry of the Environment to ensure that the CO2-free gas power plant on which the Government and the Workers' Party have agreed to be built must be added to Snow White, because then we will have to reduce the potential emissions, i.e. 900000 tonnes of CO2. Can the representative confirm that you want to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e277	First of all, I would like to inform the representative Sørensen that the greenhouse gas emissions have actually gone back and are now 4 pst. above 1990 levels. As far as the pilot plant is concerned, the representative and most of the others here in the hall will certainly remember that we had a significant commitment to the establishment of such a pilot plant. If you look back, I think it's hard to see other governments that have had a greater focus on establishing CO2 clean-up measures. Industry has said that they want to establish the pilot plant. We have had a slightly waiting attitude on this and said that the industry and oil companies must also have an influence on where this plant can best and best be established.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e286	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e290	In the last edition of «The State of the Earth», chapter one is called «A History of Our Future». Here the author reviews five of the most serious threats future historians will be able to use to describe the time we are now living in. First, we live in a world where an ever-increasing number of people lack the basics of having a decent life. 1.2 billion people, almost a quarter of the earth's population, live in absolute poverty and survive on less than one dollar a day. Threat No. 2: The world is changing because chemical cycles are out of balance. The best-known example is CO2, which was taken out of circulation millions of years ago by taking it up in plants and then converted into coal and oil, but is now being incinerated in huge quantities and leading to global warming. Also in the case of nitrogen and phosphorus, which are important regulators for plant growth, we see a similar reinforcement, which can lead to profound changes in the ecosystem. The third threat is the long-term hazards associated with toxic chemicals. There is an environmental threat that is currently directly affecting the daily lives of Norwegian women of childbearing age. Because organic toxins accumulate in the food chain, it is e.g. the fact that pregnant women are recommended not to eat, or at least to eat little of, cod liver, seagull, whale meat and meat. Threat No. 4 is the spread of alien species, another threat that could threaten the entire ecosystem. And finally, the fifth threat: loss of biodiversity. Tropical rainforests of Nepal’s size disappear every year. About 30 pst. of the remaining forests are seriously fragmented or otherwise degraded. Faced with such a state report — faced with such huge challenges — the Norwegian environment debate can sometimes appear a little puzzling and little important. But I think it is absolutely necessary to have the global picture to remind us that we need to address the environmental challenge. If we don't, living in one of the richest countries in the world, are willing to address the environmental challenge, then who will? We cannot demand that a poor mother in Bangladesh be the one who takes responsibility for the environment. We in the rich countries have a great responsibility for the global environmental challenges that have arisen, and we can afford to make some changes. Therefore, the state of the earth should form an important backbone when we are discussing the state of the state of the kingdom and the government's environmental policy today. We have an Environment Minister in Norway who is very active internationally. And that's great! I want to be the last one to criticise a Norwegian Environment Minister for constantly being on the road. But when the government is so active internationally, we should expect it to also set concrete targets at home. And then I can go right over to forest protection. In Johannesburg, one of the main goals of the government was to stop biodiversity loss by 2010. There the Government has stood and turned on the table and made demands. That's great! But unfortunately, the government does not follow up on the ground, and through the processing of this message, it has become even more unclear whether the government will take its environmental responsibility in this area. 3 000 species appear on the Norwegian red list, the list of endangered and endangered species. Almost half, 1 400, lives in the forest. Forestry has been assessed by professionals as having a negative impact on most of the endangered species living in forests, but also other threats have an impact. That's why we have to do several things at once: we have to have a forest industry that runs the forest in such a way that it takes care of the areas where endangered species live. These include: about having an environmental certification that we can all trust. Then we have to pursue a policy, both nationally and locally, that takes into account biodiversity when, for example, we do. shall plan new residential areas or new services. But that's not enough. We also have to take the load it can sometimes be to protect areas. In this area, some have been done in recent years, but we still have major challenges ahead of us. The Stoltenberg government therefore commissioned the Norwegian Institute of Natural Research and Forest Research to evaluate forest protection and make further recommendations. The report came last year and the recommendation was clear: from different objectives of forest protection, the report states that at least 4.6 pst. the protection of productive forests. It is an ambitious objective, but for an ambitious environmental protection minister it should not be impossible at all. When the message was submitted, the government wanted to increase forest protection. That's good, but it doesn't set any concrete goal, and it doesn't set a deadline. We in the Labour Party have wanted to contribute to more concrete objectives. We have entered the option for 4.6 pst. as an objective, and in order to follow it up, we have proposed that the Government return with a stepping-up plan on how this will be implemented. We had hoped to get a majority for this. I have to say that I was very positively surprised by the answer I received from the representative Halleraker in the reply card exchange instead, where he said that the most important thing for the government is to get protection to an extent that the evaluation report suggests, and that professional quality should be the most important thing. From this point of view, we should have reached an agreement in this setting. But unfortunately, when we read the setting, we look at the area by area that the Government is leaning on the Progress Party and the Center Party in terms of forest protection. It's e.g. It is strange that government parties cannot be included in comments that are almost directly quoted from the message. The message includes: that it is hardly realistic or professionally sound to base forest protection solely on voluntary protection, but in this setting they will not write the same. Neither will government parties quote their own Minister of Agriculture when he writes that the certification scheme Live Forest requires transparency. So instead, you go in areas by area with the Advance Party and write, for example, that private ownership must be respected in order to avoid serious conflicts with landowners who have their territories at peace. Yeah, what does that mean? They join the Progress Party and state that, instead of the current compensation scheme, in some cases a rental scheme can be accepted, yes, even if any registered areas that are still not financial resources to redeem within a reasonable time – whatever is now in ‘reasonable time’ – can be withdrawn by the landowners. The sum is that it's become more unclear what the Government really wants in terms of forest protection. If this is the setting that we are going to use, it is a weighting that is less ambitious than the actual message. I would say, it's nice to be active in the international arena, but before you require other countries to act, you have to sweep at your own door. I started talking about the major international environmental challenges, and I've spent a lot of time talking about one of the national challenges. International cooperation is essential and national action needs to be taken. But we can't solve environmental problems if we don't act locally. Therefore, local environmental work should become an important area of activity in Norway in the future, not only because it is often local that we need to find the practical environmental solutions, but also because it is local that we can make people aware of the global environmental challenges and what small changes in our everyday lives that individuals can contribute to. For example, in the case of climate policy, international studies suggest that a total of 40 pst. greenhouse gas emissions are derived from activities that local authorities may influence. A lot of good has been done in local environmental work in Norway, especially through the project with the municipalities. Municipalities also play a key role in the national biodiversity monitoring and monitoring system. Unfortunately, we see that environmental work in many municipalities is slowed down in times of poor municipal economy. The working party agrees that we should include the earmarked funds that have gone into environmental work. At the same time, however, there is a need for some tools to strengthen the role of municipalities in global thinking and local action. The 20 intermediate municipalities have taken steps to set up a National Agenda 21 fund, where the country allocates funds to stimulate cross-sectoral action centrally, but in particular locally. In order to achieve the revitalisation of environmental work, the Workers' Party and SV therefore ask the Government to come back with a concrete scheme to stimulate cross-sectoral action. Neither have we got the government parties with us here. In this setting, the government parties – together with the Progress Party – wrote that the submitted message indicates that the government is pursuing a much more active environmental policy than any previous government. The world is facing enormous environmental challenges. If I had been a member of the Right, Christian People's Party or the Left, I would have had a dull bismach in the mouth of such a sort of sickle. The next time we deal with a message about the state of the kingdom's environment, I hope that the government parties are a little bit more humble on their own behalf and rather use their energy to actually set some concrete environmental goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e335	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e338	First, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Konglevoll, for letting us look up and look a little beyond our own spirit. I think that's important. The Workers' Party, together with SV and the Center Party, has a comment that I hope is not representative of the General Policy of the Workers' Party. In extending the comment on the need both to solve environmental problems and to prevent the emergence of new ones, they say: ‘... prohibitions, requirements and safeguard decisions... are necessary and effective instruments for governance... and for the organisation of sustainable solutions’.» For us, it is important to protect what is protective, and to want to work together. Is it not precisely in this matter that we are discussing today that we have demonstrated that we are getting far – very far, often longer – in constructive cooperation with the parties involved? Is it not the case that the working party, for example, in comments on the climate communication, did it wish to invest in agreements with industry in order to achieve results? The question of the Workers' Party will then be: Is it desirable and necessary to achieve results in environmental policy without increasing the level of conflict, or is it desirable to take the conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e350	Obviously, it's best if we can get both of these at once. Obviously, it's best if we can make a change in an environmentally friendly direction without having any conflict. In terms of voluntary forest protection, we're positive about it. We think it might be a very good tool, but it can't be that we're just going to base on it. With regard to the comment the representative of Onarheim referred to, I believe that this is an example of an area where we could have written together in the setting, but unfortunately it was not possible, but I should go into it more closely. Our point is that when contracts are to be used, other, more market-based, instruments cannot be completely ignored, for example. technological requirements, such as: must encourage the development of new technologies. We believe that it is possible to get both. We believe that there is not really as much disagreement in this area as the setting suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e361	Norwegian environmental policies often consist of high charges and emission requirements that are more stringent than those of other countries. This of course affects Norwegian industry and Norwegian industry. In recent years, we have seen that industry has moved out to other countries. the emission requirements and the level of charges are much lower, if there are any charges and emissions requirements at all. This, of course, does not benefit the environment, either locally or globally, but it is the result of the policy pursued here in Norway and of which the Workers' Party is a warm supporter. We believe that Norwegian legislation on emissions and charges should not be stricter than it is in the EU and in other countries Norway competes with. Does the Labour Party agree or disagree with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e368	Norwegian industry has been having a tough time lately. There's a lot of reasons for that. At the same time, however, we have seen many excellent examples of Norwegian industry being able to take environmental responsibility, have managed to go ahead and have wanted to contribute to it, and the authorities could also have been more prepared to do so. Then it is that we also believe that in some areas there should not be environmental requirements that lead to companies moving out. The Labour Party has many examples of this in its policy here in Stortinget, for example. as regards the debate on a national allowance system. Here we believe that an agreement by which the parties commit themselves to reducing CO2 emissions could have achieved equally good environmental results, while at the same time helping companies to design how to achieve the objectives until we have the international quota system in place. For the day when an international quota system is in place, it is seaworthy that Norwegian industry must adapt to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e375	SV and the Working Party agree on a good part of this message, and it is positive for the future. The message contains a note from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left that there is a "need for a revitalisation of environmental policy and high environmental ambitions", i.e. something other than what this government has, in my opinion. They illustrated very little effort when they presented the draft budget on the environment. But I have to say that I get problems when the government in the agreement with the Labour Party actually cuts in a very large number of key environmental areas, for example. on energy, at the centre of energy research, and e.g. cleaning up PCB, which was pointed out by the representative of Konglevoll, was so important to clean up. What I'm curious about is, does that mean that she has high environmental ambitions, less ambitions than the government has today, when the Labour Party cuts in so many areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e384	We're going to have the budget debate tomorrow. The representative of Langeland can then have ample opportunity to come back to this. In our alternative budget, we have a number of increases in the field of the environment, including: for local environmental work. We also have an increase in forest protection, by proposing to increase the commitment mandate from 40 million. NOK 100 million. NOK, which would have meant that we could have started faster than after the government's arrangement. So it's like we've had a relationship with the government about the budget. We have reached a compromise, for which we are voting in a subsidiary way. It was necessary. There was also something that SV thought was necessary, because SV went out early and announced that they were willing to negotiate with the Government about the budget. We don't know what had been the result.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e393	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e396	Today, when we have a debate about the government's environmental protection policy and the state of the state of the state, there are many different themes to address. I want to start from a chapter that has received a lot of mention in the setting, namely increased forest protection. I'm glad it's been given a lot of publicity. As we see it, the main challenge ahead and further protection work will be to reduce the level of conflict while ensuring good professional quality in forest protection. Because it is important that forest protection, in the same way as other environmental measures, is based on societal cost-benefit assessments. In choosing the area to be protected, there should be a balance between natural and not least the economic consequences of protection and, of course, other important societal considerations. In terms of protection, it is important to stress the fundamental importance of private property rights in Norway and to respect private property rights in order to avoid serious conflicts with landowners who acquire their properties and areas of peace. Because it is private ownership that is a prerequisite for ensuring the sustainable management of our resources. Private owners of land have a personal interest in managing their properties in a long-term perspective, so that values are maintained for generations. The right to exploit local natural resources will be crucial for future industrial development, especially in the districts. A natural principle for this is the conservation of natural values and resources through sustainable use. We regard it as very important that restrictions on availability should be sought through processes which, as far as possible, safeguard the interests of the landowners by means of voluntary agreements, conflict-reduction measures, trade-offs, property and compensation which compensate for the actual financial loss in respect of the intervention carried out. Where appropriate, land should be made available by the State for husbandry. I am pleased that it seems that the government has planned to launch a new course in forest protection. That the government in the future wants mainly to use voluntary protection is sensible and correct, and something we in the Progress Party have wanted for a long time, because good dialogue is better than coercive protection, as has been a lot of the past. Another important anti-conflict action is a rapid and effective procedure and rapid settlement of claims in the event of protection. A short period of time between the adoption of the safeguard decision and the completion of the settlement of claims will reduce the uncertainty surrounding the protection of landowners and, of course, also reduce the level of conflict. The traditional protection process initiated by the Ministry of the Environment in Trillemarka-Rollag East Mountain has led to major conflicts. We would therefore ask for a fresh assessment of the protection in this area and, if appropriate, for the continuation of the protection work in this way that is now being pursued. There are good reasons for testing whether work in this area can also be based on voluntary protection. LNF is responsible for agricultural, natural and open-air areas. We believe that the Government should take a critical review of the use of LNF categories. During the examination of the communication on outdoor life, the majority of the Committee, consisting of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Centre, stressed that interference with private property rights should be undertaken with caution. Nevertheless, ownership continues to suffer damage under the term LNF. We learn that many people feel that the assumption of the LNF category today is reversed at the head of the Ministry of the Environment, statesmen and some municipal politicians. In some municipalities, strong restrictions are imposed on properties that have to be characterised as being built. The Ministry of the Environment has said that no derogation should be granted automatically under the Planning and Building Act to build houses and cabins in LNF areas after fire. That a owner of a house will not automatically have to build up his house after a fire, but depends on a dispensation, is totally incomprehensible to me. It should be obvious that once you have been allowed to enter a dwelling once, there should be an automatic way of bringing up a new dwelling after fire etc. We in the Progress Party have faith in local democracy because it takes good care of the people’s interests. Norway is a long-distance country, and housing needs to be adapted according to local conditions, without a rigid central law such as the building ban in the 100-metre belt. Today's practice of the 100-meter ban is really a gigantic seizure without any kind of compensation. I am therefore pleased that the government parties now believe that there is no need to tighten the dispensation practices or more restrictive legislation in relation to the construction ban in the 100-metre belt. When we dealt with the outdoor message, the government parties meant something different, and that the exemption practices, among other things. led to unwanted cabin construction in relation to national policy guidelines. Global environmental challenges involve international responsibility. Many cross-border environmental challenges affect human health, prosperity and development. Since several of the major environmental challenges are global, international cooperation is a prerequisite for finding good and robust solutions. It is therefore important that we focus on developing comprehensive and realistic solutions with other countries. What's happening in Norway is really the opposite. In this country, environmental requirements often become much more stringent than in other countries such as the United Kingdom. Norwegian industry competes with it. Norwegian oil and gas policy is an example of this. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote, both those we are behind alone, and those we are behind with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e422	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e426	It's probably hardly anyone who would call the Progress Party an environmental party, at least they themselves. The Progress Party is pursuing a policy that will, in turn, lead us not to do anything until we stand with the pollution up to our knees and know the chemicals burn into our legs. When the Working Environment Act was revised in Stortinget, the Progress Party voted against the whole law. They didn't want it. In this setting, they are at least included. It shows that they take greater account of biodiversity and biotopes than of the workers in this country. Per Sandberg, from the Progress Party, said on the television programme ‘Bread and circus’ that they were happy to discharge their responsibilities in budgetary terms. Does the Progress Party believe that they should be taken seriously with such a policy, an environmental policy that landowners and capital should govern?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e435	The Progress Party has an environmental protection policy, and we have a good environmental protection policy. But it's probably a little bit on the sideline of what the other parties have, because the other parties have a lot of symbolism policies in their environmental protection policies. I can only mention that when the Progress Party signed a budget agreement with the government parties last year, we were given increased funds to clean up PCB pollution. This has not been done by the Workers' Party. We have also arranged to remedy the damage caused by pollution, including: by granting what is necessary for liming. There, too, we were able to influence the budget last year. This has not been done by the Workers' Party. What is important for the Progress Party is to work in international forums to get legislation that is the same in as many countries as possible, because the most important thing is to bring down global pollution. Being a world champion here in Norway, while in other countries it is much worse, does not really help anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e444	I thought it was a bit interesting that the progress party was in on, among other things. that the climate problem is global, and that it is important that one has international driving rules to solve the problems. This is, in my opinion, a new signal. Does this mean, then, that the Progress Party should take the consequences of international agreements and actually follow them up nationally? Is that what we're talking about now from the Progress Party? The second is forested and so-called voluntary protection, which SV calls ‘nutritional-initiated protection’, versus coercive protection, which the Progress Party obviously uses. In a series of issues where there is a problem setting, the Storting takes seriously enough, creating the Progress Party fund. In this case, SV proposes to create a forest protection fund in cooperation with both the environmental movement and industry. Why in all days won't the Progress Party be on it in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e451	As far as climate issues are concerned, it is clear that the Progress Party is fully committed to its policy, as we have always done, and we note that there is a growing doubt that the so-called man-made greenhouse gas emissions affect the climate. I have registered with pleasure that the representative Onarheim from the Right has also gradually seen the light. That SV should see the same light, however, we have a little less faith in it. What is important for the Progress Party, as I also said earlier in the lines exchange, is that we work for international agreements, so that we get a solid, robust regulatory framework in place, which does not distort competition between Norway and other countries. With regard to the last Langeland survey, forest protection and funds, it is clear that there is an interesting issue. But for the time being, we want to try out the scheme of voluntary protection, which the forest owners also think is positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e460	The progress game has annotation that can indicate new signal from the game. Whether the ‘Environmental state of the day’ is as follows: ‘The party on the front line indicates that in some areas, however, developments are worrying, such as the global loss of biodiversity as a result of deforestation, over-exploitation of species, pollutants, land use changes, and the introduction of alien species.’ The progress batch is also included in the following joint note: ‘Each generation has an obligation to leave the earth to the next in at least as good a constitution as that of the previous.’ But – then write the Progress Party on: ‘However, the party considers that the policy is unfortunately influenced by the desire to appear as world champion, with too high ambition goals and too much symbolism.’ I would then like to ask: in what environmental area does the Progress Party intend to reduce the level of ambition in view of future generations?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e482	I could have answered all the lines at once, I have the impression. Clearly, we also want to promote an environmental protection policy that provides a basis for economic growth, both in Norway and in other countries. We find it a little pointless to drive on national legislation, among other things. in the case of greenhouse gas emissions and other emissions here to countries and do not apply the same in other countries. What matters to us in the Progress Party is, of course, taking care of the nature we have, because that is the basis for economic growth. This also requires strict environmental requirements, but not stricter than those in other countries. Nevertheless, one depends on having a competitive relationship that enables us to compete internationally, so that Norway does not become a museum.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e491	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e494	First, a comment on the Labour Party and the budgetary conciliation. In its compromise with the Government, SV has stressed the need to improve the policy of the Government through, for example: the climate notification and the gas settlement. Therefore, SV had not behaved for buttons and slides in the environment policy in a comparison with the Government. We had improved the budget for environmental policy, not weakened it, to which the Labour Party actually contributed. Then I want to say something about our and the world's Environment Minister, Børge Brende, who is well visible internationally, and who takes up a number of positive problem settings, seen with SV's eyes. He also takes some good initiatives, such as: after the Svalbard meeting. At least it impressed me a little bit. He also works with commitment – now he came, so now he gets the brilliance – in relation to the problem settings related to poor countries and the problem connected to clean water. All of this we thought is good and positive with Norwegian eyes, also with SV's. It seems that the Minister for the Environment has environmental ambitions, and it gives the impression that Norway seems to be a transitional country on tackling climate and environmental problems. But then the problems start, and there's less going on at home. I guess the total is that the environment loses. Even if one can point to a set of emissions that goes down, the total loss of the environment is because there is not an active policy in all areas that ensure that the environment wins. In some areas, it is good – it is shown, it is concrete and easy to come up with newspapers – but other areas that are important for the environment are not as visible in the budget. So here one must not do as one does in the message about the state of the state of the state of the state, that one describes the situation and refers to statistics, but is far too little strategic in how to move forward and achieve important objectives in environmental protection policy, for example. in the field of forest protection. When one of them, which I have been in on several occasions, looks at the budgets, one can see that that flag has an international flag, it is not shown in concrete terms in the budget at home. In a very large number of areas, the budget is becoming weak, for example: in the case of voluntary organisations and their efforts. And if you look at the budget compromise, then a sluggish effort has been made by cutting energy funds, cutting energy research, cutting PCB clean-up. Overall, as the Swedish Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party say, there is a need for a recovery in environmental policy. There needs to be greater ambitions than what you see, and one must be concrete in relation to, for example. budgeted, not just big words. Thus, the impression of Norway as a transit country outside is not consistent with the practice that one has here at home. And what will happen, for example? the rest of this session brought, associated with two major challenges? Is it the case that the Minister for the Environment and the Government will go in to open up Northland VI, an area that SFT says is most vulnerable, particularly with regard to fish and seabirds? Several fish stocks in this area are among the most important in the world, and several populations of seabirds have international protection value. Is it so that the Minister for the Environment is now involved in the speeding up of the opening of this area? Will the Minister for the Environment ensure that the drilling tower is now entering the majestic peaks of the Lofot Wall? Another thing: Snow White. The government has a climate settlement with SV. We have also ratified the Kyoto Agreement. That means that the emission, which is currently going down, must continue to go down. Here, the Minister for the Environment has had an international commitment to the poor countries, in relation to climate problems, and is trying to participate in a regime, but when he is at home, the opposite happens: the government is putting up with the opposite in its policy. What happens in relation to Snow White and the Anchor is that one gets an increase of 900,000 tonnes of CO2 if one does nothing about it. Then a required deposit, such as SV subsidized, may be required, as Snow White is attached. But one can also do as Bellona is in the Evening Post today, evaluate solutions where one can move on the CO2 gas and use it as pressure support in other fields. What will the Minister for the Environment do with these two issues? Will he follow up on what he says internationally, or will he fail nationally? In the state of the state of the kingdom, SV tries to show that we are taking environmental movement seriously, by addressing many of the issues that environmental movement raises. There the government should listen more to environmental motions and SV. Instead, one notices that the Left and Christian People's Party are now weakening its environmental profile by an easily Right-Directed Environmental Policy. This is clearly illustrated by the fact that one gets a deal in the state of the kingdom's environment with the Progress Party when it applies, for example. forest protection. We all know that the Progress Party does not have the environment as its first post. Forest protection and biodeficiency is one of the areas where we spend a lot of time. It is amazing that a species database has not now been created and that only the Progress Party and SV require it to be created during 2003. You've had plenty of time to do this, but you haven't. The Labour Party and SV have a proposal for a goal for forest protection corresponding to the Swedish, 4.6 pst. or an escalation in 10-15 years. The ambitions are only the Worker's Party and the SV have. The Christian People's Party and the Left do not have such an ambition. On the contrary, it's so much easier for Sweden, something that's stupid. This is not much easier for Sweden. On the contrary, Norway has much more forest that should be protected and greater variation that should be protected. Sweden has made this offensive. This does not happen to the Norwegian Government. SV has a proposal to create a forest protection fund. We know that the industry itself is in agreement, and we know that environmental movements are in agreement. The fact that a business party such as the Right and the Advance Party do not want such solutions surprises SV. If you had done this, you could really get started with a proper protection process. SV would also like, and we suggest, to have a code with minimum environmental certification requirements based on the problems associated with environmental certification. Nor does one want to join. In short, it means that a desire for greater emphasis on so-called free will, which is initially nutrient-initiated. It is not protected, the biological diversity of its needs, which is at the centre of this room today. It is the industrial interests that are gaining ground. The professional assessments that should lead to this are weak. The Socialist Left is also trying offensively to address the PCB issue by proposing a package of measures to remove the PCB in fluorescent luminaires. Today, in many public buildings, the PCB is almost drowning in the head of the students, and it's being wasted with energy because one doesn't take this grip. With the SV’s proposal for a package of measures, one will remove the married person by the deadline of 2005. One wanted to save energy corresponding to two Sauda extensions, and one wanted to create more jobs and, among other things, put the 1 300 electrical fitters available to work. Perhaps Glamox in More and Romesdal could be given the task of delivering some of the new fittings. SV also addresses the issue of trash in the North Sea. There is now an EU directive that the Council of State has implemented, which means that this problem may be solved in the future, but now it is not solved. Therefore, SV suggests a good one, but records that we do not get multiples for this. Through its policies and budgetary policies, SV tries to act locally, to address it, and in this way think globally, but records that there are no pluralities for such a policy at the moment. I accept the suggestions from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e524	Then the president assumed that SV has also taken up all the proposals that you agree with the Workers' Party on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e527	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e532	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e536	In its comment on EU chemicals legislation, REACH, SV calls for a reversal of the burden of proof so that companies have to prove that a substance is not harmful. Of course, a substance is not harmful or not — depending on exposure, concentration, etc. and the combination of intrinsic properties and uses of the substance becomes essential at all times. The REACH Code calls for companies to acquire knowledge and assess the risk and to pool it in a database. In the SV's comments, the actual error is related to REACH, but it is serious when it is considered that companies should prove that the risk is zero. A balance between risk and utility is common elsewhere in society. Has SV been close to assessing the impact of its policies in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e541	SV is always in the vicinity of assessing the consequences of its policy, because we are taking into account what is most important for the environment. If, in fact, production leads to environmental problems, it creates pollutants, and it harms nature and human beings, it is the policy which, among other things, is. Halleraker suggests, the equivalent of SV's policy, that we should see if it is dangerous. The industry gets to produce, and then we'll see if someone died of it. Such a policy does not support SV. We stand for a policy that is responsible for future generations, not irresponsible, as is the policy that Right stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e546	For many years, the Left Party has developed some credibility on this with environmental protection and policy. In fact, I believe that the party took the largest market share in this area among the voters, at least until the current Environment Minister joined. We know that in Norway we have among the most stringent environmental and emission requirements in the world, and in Norway we have an industry that is completely at the top of the world in the field of the environment. This industry is also at the top of the world in terms of energy efficiency. We all know that the Socialist Left wants further strengthening of environmental requirements, while not wanting to build up power to secure Norwegian industrial workplaces. I would therefore ask: how many of the tens of thousands of industrial workers will SV and Langeland put on the gate to achieve their environmental policy objectives? What are the environmental benefits of shifting Norwegian industrial production to countries that do not have environmental requirements in addition to having a nuclear-based energy production?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e553	It is affordable that the Progress Party will come back to this with the energy issue, with which they did nothing in comparison with the Government. They didn't allow money to build out gas power plants or anything like that when they made a deal with the Government. The responsibility for this lies with the Progress Party itself. Then I must say that if the Progress Party had been given control of this country, it would not today be a Norwegian continental shelf that was the main source of environmental technology, which can actually now export environmental technology. Had it been up to the Advance Party, it would have been full of oil and gas floating around the North Sea, and not what SV has been able to get, namely, an industry that is at the tip of the world when it concerns the environment. In relation to the energy challenges, it is clear that PIL, the organisation of the process industry, says that they themselves can save 5.2 TWh if one agrees to contribute to this from the Government and the politician. But that's one of them not willing. Here's a lot of things to talk about for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e562	Firstly, I have to say that the SV and the Center Party very often agree on environmental and climate policy, but sometimes good friends also separate layers. We have done so in a number of areas today. As far as the species database is concerned, I have to say that I agree that it should be established, but I think it is irresponsible to say that it should happen before the end of 2003 – it is a short month again. That is why we are not in favour of this proposal. SV accuses the government of describing problems and leaning on statistics. It's not my job to defend the government, it does good enough seagoing. But SV leans in this context by percentages, and it can be very dangerous sometimes. We say that there are 3,000 red-listed species we're going to take care of – half are in the forest, half of these are left in the warm-kjær bay forest. How can Langeland say that 4.6 pst. Is that the right number? The peak goes down, and 15 years ago was 1 pst. the protection of forests more than enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e571	It's quite right that SV and the Center Party often stick together. The representative Enger mentions a few things – there are several others. That's exactly why the Center Party is interesting as government partners in 2005. So to the specific issues: it is already agreed that a species database should be created before the end of 2003. But the Environment Minister is making money, and then it's my job to try to get multiple numbers here on the Stortinget to make sure he's created, as we've decided he's going to be created. That's the answer to that question. In relation to protection and ownership – a thousand there and a thousand there – and our objective of 4.6 pst. is a good illustration of the difference between the Centre Party and SV. For SV, it is the environment and the protection, the diversity of species, which is important, because the centre party is the landowners and only it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e580	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e583	The Christian People's Party is basing its policy on administrative responsibility. Man is set to use, but not consume, the resources that we've been given from the generations before us. Our descendants should have the right to breathe in clean air, drink clean water, eat clean food and experience the same natural experiences that we have today. The co-operation administration will pursue an ambitious environmental policy, and our aim is to revitalise it. The aim is to protect human life and health, to protect nature as a basis for nutrition and to ensure the potential for natural experiences. Environmental protection policy is based on the principle of nature's limit of tolerance and on the precautionary principle. The pressures must not exceed what ecosystems can withstand, and when environmental impacts are uncertain, doubts must benefit the environment. The main global environmental challenges we face are the threat of anthropogenic climate change, the loss of biodiversity and the use of harmful chemicals. These are, to a large extent, cross-border challenges that could affect human health, species survival and economic development. It is therefore important to work nationally to solve these problems, but we also have an important international obligation to meet the global environmental challenges. Significant results have been achieved in recent years, but the challenges remain in many areas. Let me just mention someone: Emissions of ozone-reducing substances have been significantly reduced. Norway is now relatively well placed in relation to its emissions obligations and is following the EU's decommissioning plan by 2015. Pollutant emissions to air in Europe, in particular of sulphur dioxide, SO2, but also of nitrogen oxides, NOx, have been reduced as a result of mandatory international cooperation. Thus, the acidification load in Norway is reduced. Further reductions are expected by 2010 as a result of the 1999 Gothenburg Protocol. Forest-related environmental efforts are greater than in the past. Conversion of forest policy and use of forest certification provide a basis for better forest and environmental objectives. A number of national parks and other protected areas have been established in recent years. Protected areas now constitute at the top of 9 pst. by mainland Norway. There is a need for further protection, including: to make the protection areas more representative of the variation in Norwegian nature. Still, there are some negative moves. If new climate action is not implemented, global greenhouse gas emissions will increase by 70 pst. from 1995 to 2020. Global biodiversity loss is widespread, such as: due to deforestation, over-exploitation of species, pollutants, land use changes and the introduction of alien species. Although emissions of some of the most dangerous pollutants have been reduced, the overall use of chemical substances has increased. In the EEA area, an estimated 50,000 different chemicals are currently used. For many of these, we have little information about health and environmental impacts. Revitalised environmental policies need to combine administrative regulation through laws and regulations and economic and market-based instruments that stimulate business to produce environmentally sound products. An important part of this instrument is that customers act as conscious consumers and demand for goods that have been produced environmentally friendly. It's all bound together by information. Knowledge of environmental conditions is a prerequisite for individuals and businesses to make the right and environmentally friendly choices. Norway’s efforts at the Rio+10 Summit in Johannesburg aroused international awareness. The meeting made progress in many important areas, including: fixed-term objectives for water and sanitary conditions and minimisation of the production and use of health and environmentally harmful chemicals. Reducing biodiversity loss was also an important topic. However, it may have been equally important for Norway to help us avoid undermining the precautionary principle and to avoid formulations that could be interpreted in the sense that the WTO rules should prevail over other international agreements in the field of the environment and development. This also illustrates the forces we face. When large multinationals and major countries in the world use a lot of resources to reverse important and completely elementary recognitions that have been incorporated into the environment for many years, it is important that someone opposes these forces. It reiterates the importance of international environmental cooperation. Corridor protection has been a key element of the debate on the State of the Land’s environmental status. I'm pleased that the government gets a majority for the course we've put on this point. It is important that we get a realistic approach to this work, and it is very gratifying to note the constructive approach also the forest industry itself has had to this protection. I would stress that voluntary protection should be an important strategy to achieve the objective of protecting a representative range of forests. But the authorities are going to have the last word on whether the forest that is nominee for protection is of good quality. The law of nature protection is always there, but it goes without saying that if protection is promoted through dialogue and agreed solutions without conflict, the result is the best. Protecting coniferous forests is expensive. It is reasonable that those who receive areas connected by protection and other regulations should be compensated for this. It is a principle that has been fundamental in Norwegian nature protection management. We must therefore have a realistic approach to how much money we have at our disposal for this purpose. I record that one of the parts that have been entered in the setting to figure out a measure of coniferous protection of 4.6 pst. by 2015, did not propose to increase the allocation for that purpose in its 2004 alternative budget. So there's no more protection for coniferous forests because if there's a numerically fixed level in a setting. We also have to follow up with appropriations. It is gratifying that through this attitude and through other issues presented to the Stortinget, the Co-operation Government will have a majority for the main features of its ambitious environmental policy. We have a common responsibility, across the party boundaries, to solve the major environmental challenges we face. Work is going forward, but we've started so far, and a lot of work remains.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e620	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e623	I do not know which party the representative of Rahm referred to, but it is certainly the case that in his alternative budget the Labour Party had an increase in the order of business protection. Then I'll take up some of the same thing that I did with the right. I think I got a surprising positive answer from the Right, but it makes me even more confused about what is the government's line. Is it professional quality or the reduction of the level of conflict most important? Unfortunately, I am not reassured when I read the setting. In the vote, the majority, the government parties and the Party of Advances are voting in favour of vetoing landowners when they write that landowners should be able to withdraw protected areas if they do not receive compensation within ‘reasonable time’. What is reasonable time? Is it two years, is it four years, is it ten years or a hundred years? If it's a matter of a few years, I think this is quite perceptive. So my question to the Christian People's Party is, is this just a word, or has the Christian People's Party, along with the Center Party, contributed to a weakening of what is in the message?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e630	It is almost so that I could repeat the answer from the representative Halleraker to Synnøve Konglevoll. I hold fast to what I said there was no more money in the 2004 state budget. A commitment authorisation is not a subsidy to the budget for the coming year, so I am in favour of what I said in my contribution. So Synnueve Konglevoll again tries to create a contrast between professional quality and reducing the level of conflict. Our starting point is that it's possible to combine this. I believe that in this area, like some other areas that are conflict-affected, inter alia. The result will be largely dependent on being able to deal with this in such a way that we both safeguard the professional qualities and, at the same time, ensure that we reduce the level of conflict. There should be a starting point, and it is my absolute belief that what lies in the setting by the government parties is an attempt to safeguard both of these two considerations in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e638	In the setting, the following is stated during Outdoor Life: ‘The majority consider that there is no need to tighten dispensation practices or more restrictive legislation in relation to the construction ban in the 100 metre belt and movement in the coastal zone.’ It is a majority opinion that the Christian People's Party is in. In the daily newspaper Tuesday 13 May 2003, the title is «Will tight dirthole in the beach zone law». The article reads as follows: ‘Despite more stringent practices, more exemptions are granted for construction in the coastal zone than in the past. Now, the head of the Storting Environment Committee will close the loopholes of the Coastal Zone Act.» Brother Yngve Rahm goes on to say, ‘I think we need to close the loopholes that exist, so that it is not so easy to obtain a derogation.’ Today is November 25th. It might be a little interesting to hear what the Christian People's Party thinks about this today, since they obviously have so much trouble deciding what they really mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e660	I would assume that the Progress Party, as a law and order party, is also prepared to close loopholes that can help to abuse a law, whether it concerns law on the beach zone or other law. It's about me, and it's also about the Government. That's why the government through the Council of State, Mr. Børge Brende, has expressed that you're following this situation very carefully. The question is not primarily linked to the weakness of the law; the question is primarily linked to the way in which the law is practised in municipalities in relation to the possibilities for exemption. The latest information we have points to the fact that things are coming under control, thanks to the supervision of the Government with this matter and the strong focus we have on this matter. I think we're on the right track. But we are following developments further, and we also make that very clear in the position that exists on the matter we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e667	The Bondevik I government decided on the issue of the construction of gaseous power plants in Norway. Now there is a new issue at the Environment Minister's table: The government will shortly decide whether it will be involved in defending the construction of a polluting gas power plant on Snow White. There is an alternative. The alternative is to add the CO2-free gas power pilot to the Snow White, separate the flue gas and reinject it into the field, as is to be done with the CO2 you need to dissipate before you need it into the LNG facility. This is a golden opportunity to remove 900,000 tonnes of CO2 from the Norwegian climate accounts, while contributing to the exciting development of new technologies for CO2-free gas power plants. Have CO2-free gas power plants been fine for the Christian People's Party now, or will the Government take a clear stand and ensure that the gas is removed from the Snow White?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e674	This was also in itself a question that Heidi Sørensen raised earlier today, with a relationship to a matter that lies within the Ministry of the Environment. I believe that the question will be relevant to ask the Council of State directly in connection with the line change around his posts, and I will not prejudge any of what is going on internally in the Government in this area. In the case of Snow White and a pilot plant, Heidi Sørensen knows that during the debate on Snow White, the government parties had a very strong focus on the possibilities to use the CO2 in a good way up there. We were also concerned about the question of a pilot plant and then – preferably – that it was possible to realise. At the same time, however, we have made it possible for the company – i.e. Statoil – to assess other alternatives where they think it is most appropriate and where environmental benefits are greater. So our commitment to Snow White and a pilot project in CO2 management is as great as it was during the treatment of Snow White when that matter was in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e681	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e684	As the last theme of the state of the country's environment, the climate challenges are mentioned. Globally, it's the biggest environmental challenge we're facing. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has provided evidence that the climate is changing and, according to the panel, this is related to a large increase in the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Norway’s emissions are also increasing. Therefore, the climate problem is also Norway’s main environmental challenge. The theme is not dedicated to so much space in this big message, but this has to come back to in many other contexts. However, what has been used for a lot of space – and in which there is a lot of speaking time today – is coniferous protection. In this field, the Committee has been brought together in several opinions. There is full agreement that the level of conflict should be mitigated. Long-term bonding of woodland with many years of uncertainty is a heavy load. But the most important thing now is that we look forward and add up to good processes. The entire Committee will cut short the binding period and maintain a form of compensation scheme, all of which will have flexible change-over arrangements, and all of them will put forest protection on publicly owned land – at least initially. In fact, everyone is also in a positive position until the alternative forest owners have developed to organise cooperation processes for voluntary protection. However, the amount of forest to be protected is not agreed upon. The focus of the research evaluation, which concludes that well over three million targets should be met, appears to be a bit airy rather than a good research result. Perhaps such assessments are better suited as a driving force for more protection than as a basis for decision-making on the allocation of billions. The centre lot will continue to have jobs and export revenue based on forestry. We want to use more bioenergy. We also want increased wood use – wood is a renewable and environmentally friendly raw material. The center party could like to join in and use some of the millions – not to say billions – it would have cost 4-5 pst. of the forest, for increased use on bioenergy and wood. It could also provide important jobs in the districts. For the sake of order, it should be mentioned that the centre party does not want such extensive forest protection, we see a clear need to exclude some areas with important environmental qualities from the highest. The centre party also feels – I need to say it – a social responsibility, even though SV may feel that we are not doing it in this context. I will not spend much time on the conflict in Trillemarka–Rollag East Mountain in this context, but I will remember that the situation is stressful. Such massive forest reserves, which are currently being assessed, affect a large number of owners and will significantly reduce the nutrient base of the areas concerned. When the biodiversity report was addressed one and a half years ago, knowledge-based management was given great importance. The creation of a species database is important in this context. This bank must have a location and organisation that is reliable for all parties. That's why it's better that a person spends a little extra time getting it ready, so that it gets good when it gets there. The so-called root lists are also important for knowledge-based management, but the lists have to be up-to-date. As a sign that they're not quite up to date, I'd like to mention that, according to GD, a large newspaper on Lillehammer, it recently appeared a special species of bat in Wågå, despite the fact that according to the Red Lists it should have been extinct a long time ago. Finally, I would like to mention an area of the Central Party that should have been seen to be provided with more resources, namely cultural memory protection. As Halleraker mentioned, 1 is going to be pst. of cultural memories away every year. It's good that the Cultural Memory Fund is established, but 13 million. kr at the disposal of the second year of operation is very small in relation to all the challenges. The idea was to build up the fund for an important actor in cultural memory protection. Then a significantly larger allocation is needed. The government has announced a big message about cultural memories, and the Central Party hopes this will involve increased financial effort for peace and protected buildings. When the state is at peace with private property, whether it's forest using the law of nature protection, which I've been to, or buildings using the law of cultural memories, the state has to bear the extra costs. Common cultural heritage is our shared responsibility. Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur, who has done a great job of obtaining the widest possible majority in all the important areas. I will, on behalf of the Central Party, take up the proposals that we are proposing in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e719	The representative has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e724	Central party writes in setting: ‘The climate problem is therefore also Norway’s main environmental challenge.’ Norway is in the western European context the country with the least climate-affecting energy production. Nevertheless, in the last year, the Nordic region has doubled its CO2 emissions due to Norwegian imports of coal power. All forecasts show that power consumption in Norway and the Nordic countries will increase in the coming years. Until now, the centre has been opposed to any expansion of cleaner energy than coal as monks. Will the centre party now assess its position in terms of energy, or is it only fine words without content from the centre party also in this setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e734	Klungland was concerned that there were only fine words from the Center Party in this context. That's rarely nice words from the Center Party. Those are simple, practical words that we want to stand for. And we're going to do that this time as well. It's quite right, as Klungland mentions, that the climate problem is the biggest thing we have to deal with. If it goes wrong, everything goes wrong, to say it like that. The centre party is very concerned about this problem. Then Klungland pulled this in with electricity. In terms of pure energy, we're also very concerned about it. In fact, we have been committed to providing financial support for the construction of mini- and micro-power plants. We have also made a proposal to fill in the magazine – all of this in order to strengthen the use of clean energy in Norway. Besides, it's well known, I also mentioned it in my post, that we're in order for more bioenergy to be used for heating. All of this is going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e741	In relation to mice, such as the Senterparteen, I think it should be clear that the climate change that is currently taking place will probably lead to some species appearing in Norway – due to, among other things. temperature oscillations. It also means that the species in Norway will move, and it has a set of tendencies. Just in climate issues, SV and the Center Party are reasonable few. But when it comes to forest protection, it's the Progress Party and the Center Party that are the good friends, and that embraces each other hard to protect property rights. In that case, you will not be allowed to protect what is the most professional basis, but you will be entitled to property first and foremost. Why can't the Center Party understand that a protection must be protected, so one must protect what is most biologically important? And why doesn't the Centre go into a forest protection fund, as SV suggests?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e749	Nor is it certain that SV manages the truth in this area. Because it's not sure that 4.6 pst. is the right number. As I've seen it, it's been a little bit like this: think about a number! NINA’s evaluation on forest protection, which is much from the background of Norway’s reaching 4.6 pst., says: ‘... we assume that no region and vegetation zone today has protected too much forest.’ You assume that, and then you set up a ratio that you multiply out. Then you get 3.6 pst. Then you say to be on the safe side, we add 1 pst. Could not That's why I think it's very strange that some party is now standing up and saying that this is true, this is certain. I'm concerned that we should protect high-quality areas, but then we have to be more concerned with the Red List species, which Langeland is right about, than just looking at the number of percentages.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e761	The Centre Party and the Progress Party have a common note on page 12. It's a little bit of special cooperation and commitment. We notice that, and we've read that note with great attention. The party here believes that it is important to create maximum confidence in the evaluation work, and so on: that there is a need for greater professional scope in the work. The game will also gain peak competence in the forest state of Norway. It has also been shown that the protection process needs to be evaluated. So here is a lot of new leads, and it's natural to ask the representative, Mr. Enger, how is this work planned to be carried out? Is the essential lack of competence in this work and on the basis that we have to deal with this matter. Have any additional costs been considered in relation to the arrangements envisaged by these lots?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e768	I'm almost tempted to spend some time on what I'm talking about in the previous line. So what was the background to this forest protection process we have today is this research evaluation that is being questioned a little bit. I think it would be very sorry if some of us could draw things in doubt. Therefore, it is important that knowledge is accurate and that it is widely assessed. That's why I'm concerned that, in addition to biologists, who might get a little too much space, the authorities should also reason with. I certainly believe that the authorities, the environmental protection authorities, must have the last word in such a context. But it's also important that we get with forestry people, who have a slightly different background to what biologists have, so that you get a nuanced view and get a lot of sides out of this important thing. How exactly is it supposed to be, we get back to if we get a majority for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e773	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e776	Left-wing Government has presented an offensive and forward-looking communication on environmental protection policy and on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state. The message gives us a good picture of the situation and the challenges we face. The left is proud of the government's work in this area. The co-operation administration is leading a far better, more offensive and more forward-looking environmental policy than any previous government, and more than any other possible government configuration today. Cooperation governance builds its environmental policy on the objective of sustainable development. The Verkemodla will be set up in accordance with the good left-wing principle that impureurs will pay. This means that an economic and market-based instrument is more closely linked to mandatory agreements, transferable allowances and certificates and environmental taxes. The left is very busy with Norway meeting its obligations under the Kyoto Protocol. The left is also pleased that the Government’s ambition is to work internationally for a more ambitious climate agreement after 2012. Greenhouse gas emissions in the 2008-2012 period shall not be more than 1 pst. higher than in 1990. That's why we're pleased to note that the government is now following up the measurements in a good way. The introduction of the allowance system both nationally and internationally is a good measure and a good complement to the CO2 charge. The left still thinks it's right that major investors, like gas power plants, don't get any kind of free tickets, while most people have to pay a full fee. It is therefore gratifying to note that the Snow White project is, quite correctly, considered to be within the charging system of CO2 emissions. The government is now providing emission-free gas power plants with CO2 handling. Such a technology effort, as has long been claimed by the Left, is both good environmental policy and good industrial policy. The assessment of a green certificate system is also a good energy policy measure. The left is pleased with the government's work in this area and hopes that the work further can be intensified. It is positive that an increased effort is now being made to reduce environmental problems in the largest urban areas. Across three quarters of Norway's population live in towns and agglomerations. Many cities face major unsolved health and environmental challenges and shortages of land available, including: air pollution and particulate matter have been a major problem in several major cities during winter. This is a problem which has also been taken seriously by Minister of Transport Torild Skogsholm, and since the turn of the year, the Ministry of Transport also introduces a new system of parking for better public transport and less use of cars in metropolitan areas. The government’s historically good collective effort in the 2004 government budget is itself an important measure to improve the environment and air quality in our big cities. In the 2004 budget setting, a comprehensive Financial Committee called for an evaluation of the exemption from the tax on hydrogen cars. In the case of electric cars, free public parking schemes are currently in place in Norway, exemptions from the toll and exemptions from the one-off and annual fee. In addition, lower tax bases have been introduced using electric car as a company car, and for the purchase of new electric cars a zero rate was introduced from 1 July last year when VAT is applied. A similar fee exemption for hydrogen cars will be allowed to make Norway a transitional country in zero emission technology based on hydrogen. The left is very satisfied with the fact that a mass accumulation is behind this kind of forward-looking environmental effort. The objective of halting the loss of biological deficiency in Norway by 2010 is ambitious, but most necessary. The biological deficiency in nature is under strong pressure, including in Norway. We fail to take responsibility for future generations if we eliminate shortages and natural experiences that we take for granted. It's man who has to adapt to nature's complicated interaction, and not the other way around. This also applies to genetic and biotechnology, which gives us great potential in medical research and the development of new industries, but also raises ethical dilemmas and can have negative effects that we do not have today. The government's efforts to secure the biological deficiency are in line with the objectives of the Johannesburg Summit. Finally, I want to focus on the new grips the government adds when it comes to the protection of forests. The intensification of this work is necessary if we are to achieve an internationally decent level of protection. Sweden and Finland have implemented measures to ensure the protection of four to five times the size of our area, and we cannot reach this level without thinking about anything new. In particular, I would like to highlight increasing the focus on voluntary protection and opportunities to assess the protection of forests in state-owned areas as two measures that can increase the area monthly. However, it is important not to allow a one-sided focus on land to go at the expense of the need to protect the diversity of species and the professional content of protective plans. The left wants Norway to be an environmental progressing country, with a focus on the best technology. I think we can actually achieve that – with the bet that our government puts up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e797	We are discussing today the position of the Committee on the Environment. It can basically be seen as a story to treat it in the Stortinget. In the early 1990s, the size adopted a revised land plan for nature parks, giving away everything called powers to the Ministry of the Environment. So far, Stortinget has not been willing to withdraw that mandate. It has now been discussed in the Committee, but I am not so sure that it is a sensible consideration. The Minister for the Environment and the Ministry has just launched the Coastal Protection Plan for Northern Ireland. The plan has been completed in the department since I arrived at Stortinget in 1997, and until now. Now it has been implemented. There were great protests against it – as it was thought. In the case of salmon fjords, it seems as if there is going to be a rematch. The plan that has been adopted is not good enough for the ministry. I have to ask what kind of statistics have been derived, since it's said that it goes down with the wild axis. Is it the statistics that are real, or is it tax-motivated statistics that have been taken into account? I don't know. I don't think the committee knows that either – nor the Ministry of the Environment. But they're sitting there drawing with ink. They delegate power to the Directorate for Nature Management, which in turn delegates it further. And they're sitting there drawing. The country plan adopted in the early 1990s is not the same as we have today. For many years have passed, almost ten. It's drawn a lot of thousands over that time. And that's not the same plan, I can guarantee it. I believe that the Committee on the Environment should review this matter. What's kind of polite to me -- I'm starting to be an old man -- is that I was with and planted the tree in the coastal bark that is being researched today and that's to be protected. Fifty years ago, I walked around and planted a sitkagran. Today it is to be protected – after researchers have researched the same fir! No, if I knew what I know today, it wouldn't have been planted a single plant! [[Laughter]] It's protected a lot of areas, one after the other. The Law on Nature Conservation applies to mountains and seas. But areas of the sea are protected under the law of nature protection because of what one single man in the Department of Justice has said. Finally, after a three-page assessment, it appears that the Environmental Protection Act also applies at sea. This is the only sustainable law-enforcement facility, and I have sent it to the Minister for the Environment. We should adopt a new law, which also applies at sea. We cannot, of course, protect ourselves from the fact that one man has assessed it in such a way that the Environmental Protection Act also applies at sea. So the whole question is, what law are we protecting by? The Saltwater Fishing Act is all right. After that, we can protect. But if we protect by environmental protection law, it doesn't apply at sea. I can't believe that one person's judgement – that the law might apply at sea – is correct. The Minister for the Environment has done a lot. He has taken up Sellafield, and he has addressed this with endangered species – and sustainable management must not least include marine mammals. But what does the Minister for the Environment and the Ministry for the Environment do with introduced species? I'm thinking about the king crab. It is an introduced species that has come into Norwegian fauna and the Norwegian sea. Nobody seems to care. Yes, yes, they care – but it's after I've brought it up in the main hall!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e814	There is broad political agreement that climate change and biodiversity loss are among the most important environmental challenges. It is also widely agreed that strong instruments are needed to achieve the main environmental objectives. It is a pity that this is not followed up by sufficiently active action. Let me do one example. An important tool to stop biodiversity loss is increased forest protection, which has also been addressed by the representative, Mr Konglevoll and others. There is a broad consensus on this from a professional point of view and between most political parties. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that there are political dividing lines as to how and when and how much forest should be protected. The working party, as you know, has entered this setting to protect 4.6 pst. of the coniferous forest. This objective is in line with the scientific objectives. We therefore believe that it is necessary that we set this goal now, and not just mention it, as the Government and government parties here in the Storing do. Here, the Government and the Minister for Environmental Protection could, if they wanted, collect an important environmental policy victory if one had chosen to cooperate with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party. But instead we have to note that the government parties choose to join the Advance Party. In addition to the fact that the civil majority will not set a level of protection, there is no doubt that there is a significant difference in how the objective is to be implemented. In the message, the various instruments have been discussed and everyone agrees that protection processes should be implemented with the least possible conflict between authorities and owners. Voluntary protection is such an instrument. I have great faith that forest owners will contribute constructively in such processes. While I believe that there is a balanced emphasis on instruments in the message, and that the Workers' Party strongly supports, the government parties, together with the Advance Party, place emphasis on almost exclusively voluntary protection in this setting. The same parties also take on the side of the landowners in another important matter, namely the issue of the coastal zone and public rights. It has now been two years since Stortinget dealt with the open-air message. It was not then, and it is not now, enough will in the government parties and in the Progress Party to go from talking to practice. That is regrettable, and we come back to this matter in connection with a separate document No. Eight proposals. So to another area that is often forgotten in environmental debates, namely cultural memory protection. Norway is a rich country. From nature we are rich – we have natural resources that have provided us with wealth our ancestors and mothers could only dream of. But we are also a country rich in traditions and cultural memories. Unfortunately, we have neglected to take good care of these over the years. Because of what we may later think has been a crazy decision about demolition, but a lot of it is because we haven't seen enough of the value of caring for cultural memories. This has meant that a lot has been lost, and a lot has expired. We can and must learn from the mistakes we have made and others have made before us. Let's not say in 20-30 years: had we only done more by the beginning of this century! Houses and buildings make up much of our cultural heritage. Everything from small housekeepers' rooms documenting the living conditions of the small corps to mansions, church buildings and important industrial memories showing the growth and development of the welfare state, and not least the protection of vessels. The fact that the shipping nation of Norway has taken care of so few historical vessels is a cross of thought. The Workers' Party is looking forward to a review of the cultural memory protection in the big messages announced by the Government. But we already want to signal that we believe from our point of view that the message must contain a realistic escalation plan of cultural memory protection, which means that we get more in practice. Finally, I would like to address the proposals on which the Labour Party is associated with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e836	The representative Sylvia Brustad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e839	The paper on the Government's environmental protection policy and the state of the state of the state of the state is the Government's main document for the overall production of the Government's environmental efforts. I have registered with pleasure that there is a broad consensus on principles, main challenges and instruments in the Government's environmental protection policy. This consensus gives us a good foundation in the future. We are regularly faced with new environmental protection challenges and issues. It is therefore important to keep looking for new solutions and new ways of working. In my view, the state of the state of the kingdom demonstrates how this Government has focused on important environmental issues: taking care of more Norwegian nature and biodiversity, better protection of the marine environment and enhanced efforts against environmentally hazardous chemicals. Environmental protection policy goes far beyond the Ministry of the Environment's budget and the measures taken by the Ministry of Environment. All sectors and departments have environmental responsibilities and take responsibility for the environment. The message also reflects this. Sound management of our own environmental resources is important for Norway to be able to act actively on the international environmental policy arena. Through Norway's Chairmanship of the UN Commission on Sustainable Development, the CSD, we have taken on a demanding and high profile role in international environmental work and in sustainable development internationally. The main environmental challenges are to a large extent global and cross-border, and could affect human health and life base, species survival and economic development in the long term. The northern regions are particularly vulnerable due to the supply of pollutants via air and sea streams. Climate change impacts can first and foremost come first. Obliging international cooperation is therefore absolutely necessary in order to solve problems of an international nature. The government will continue an active policy of preserving Norwegian nature. No government has protected and preserved so much Norwegian nature in such a short time. In recent years, there has been an increase of 20 pst. We have implemented a coastal protection plan for Northern Ireland, which means that more than 60 nature reserves have been established to take care of some of the most important pearls of Norwegian coastal nature. These are also sites that have been nominated for the UNESCO World Heritage List. We have adopted the salmon proposition in Stortinget, which will take care of the unique Norwegian wild axis. We have taken care of the largest coherent area in Europe to protect the wilderness. We've expanded national parks where mountain reefs are particularly vulnerable. We're working on promoting our own marine safety plan. Together with the fisheries minister, I have also implemented a protection – the first in the world – of cold-water coral reefs, and I am also working internationally to make this happen. In addition, we have extended the national park work to include coastal alpine landscapes, on which the Møjsalen National Park is a good illustration. In the 2004 state budget, we also propose to set up three new national parks and a number of new landscaping areas, so that those who come after us will have the same opportunities as we do to enjoy Norwegian nature. It is a good and sustainable principle. The government will follow up the political declaration and action plan of the UN Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg, both nationally and internationally. On the aid side, the government has set aside 375 million. kr in additional funds over a three-year period for the follow-up to the so-called WEHAB initiative. The funds shall be used for partnership initiatives in the areas of water, agriculture, renewable energy, biodiversity and natural resource management. So that's 375 million. in addition, starting to work from next year. The Government will also ensure national follow-up to the Kyoto Protocol and action against Norwegian emissions before 2008 and will submit a case on this to the Stortinget during the spring session. The government will work internationally for a more ambitious climate agreement after 2012, which includes the United States and developing countries with high emissions and strong emissions growth. The Government’s priority in the field of forest protection is a key element of the Communication. In some cases, forest protection has proved to be conflictful. The government will continue to focus on reducing the basis for conflicts in forest protection contexts, but we will increase forest protection, as also stated in the Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e871	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e874	Forest protection is central to the message. That's the area that we use most space in the setting. Someone might accuse me of hacking the disc now, but I still want to ask Børge Burnde a question about forest protection, a question that I did not get the answer from the committee leader, Brother Yngve Rahm. The majority of the Committee, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre, write in the vote on page 11 that ‘where applicable, areas which are not financial resources to be recovered within a reasonable period of time must be able to be withdrawn by the landowners’. I can only see that it is contrary to what the government party is fortunately in on page 8 of the setting, namely that it is ‘a prerequisite that the protection work captures the areas with the highest protection value’. My question is: how does the Minister for the Environment intend to follow up the majority position that landowners should be able to withdraw areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e886	As I also said in my post, I want to commend the forest owners' organisations for starting a very constructive cooperation line with the Ministry of the Environment. I have received on my table a proposal for contributions with interesting areas of over 30 000 dean for voluntary protection. Now I have asked the Directorate of Nature Management to analyse these areas and look at which of them also meet the biodiversity requirements that must be the starting point for this protection. These areas can then be entered and purchased by the State. I would assume that what is meant in the setting is that if someone introduces an area of voluntary protection, they have to be able to re-determine along the way and withdraw the area, as the whole scheme is based on volunteering. However, the point of entering this area is that the country must also provide a relatively rapid response and that they will not enter more areas than it is likely that the country will be able to acquire in the coming years. I think it is very good that we have got this, and I also think it is necessary to have that security if you voluntarily add it, that the table does not bind for many decades if the Storting does not allow enough funds to fulfill this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e897	I need to get some clarifications from the answer I received from Brother Yngve Rahm on my reply, where I showed that the Christian People's Party had one policy on 13 May when it came to building within the 100-meter belt and dispensation in the beach zone, where Brother Yngve Rahm and the Christian People's Party would tighten in, while the setting says that you are satisfied with the legislation as it is and how it works today. My question to the Council of State is simply: Has the Government since 13 May made a tightening of the dispensation practice with regard to the construction ban in the 100-metre belt, or has there been any loophole in the law, as the representative Rahm pointed out?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e904	In the case of the beach zone and the construction in the 100-metre belt, the Stortinget passed in 1965 a law saying that it should not initially be built in the 100-metre belt. However, Stortinget also decided at the time that there should be a derogation for municipalities, in order to assess the specific cases. You can also try this 100 meter belt using regulation changes. What the Ministry has done in cooperation with the Directorate for Nature Management in recent years is to draw up guidelines for municipalities related to this, which can be used. I would assume that the discussion going on between the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party here will be able to continue for a long time in the future. The point is that the government is following this case. We enforce the legislation here, and we have seen that the number of dispensation applications in the 100 meter belt is on the way down. It is also true that the measures taken within the 100-metre belt in the most vulnerable areas have also fallen significantly. It has also been registered by the committee leader, and I assume that he is satisfied with this development.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e911	As I said in my first post, the Council of State has shown itself well again as our minister of environmental protection. Of course, he is also well aware that greenhouse gas emissions both kill and cost a great deal of money. The key for SV is to focus on climate policy and the climate agreement that SV has with the Government. Heidi Sørensen and I have taken this up with Snow White and then released it and pilot plants and the potential for landfilling, possibly moving CO2 gases for use as pressure support. I assume that the Minister for the Environment says he has the case for treatment and will not answer it, but if the question is whether it is problematic for Norway to increase its emissions by 900,000 tonnes, he would like to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e920	As the rapporteur also stated in a reply, Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions fell in 2002. This is due not least to a change in the level of activity, but also to the fact that in Norway we have the world's most stringent climate policy regime. We were one of the first to introduce CO2 taxes, and we have one of the highest CO2 taxes in the world. As a result of the Storting decision in relation to the additional communication on climate, we are in the process of introducing systems in relation to the process industry, which is responsible for 30 pst. of the Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, which are also the largest in relation to what is international. The assessments made in relation to the production of gas depend a little on the location of the batch. If you want to fire too fully with coal from the most polluting coal-fired power stations in Denmark and import that energy, or you want to actively use the gas, thereby releasing half that amount of CO2, is of course a balance. I think it's much better to use something that emits half as much CO2.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e929	I am going to touch on a topic that is mentioned in the message, but has not been so much in the debate today. Compensation rules apply to national parks and landscape protected areas. It'll take a while before they're evaluated and hopefully improved, so maybe the uncertainty around this will last another few years. The Biodiversity Commission will present its investigation on 1 June, and then we know that it will take a long time. The Council of State has repeatedly assured that new replacement principles will have retroactive effect, and that is very fine. But there is a maritime uncertainty about what the new rules will be like. And in order not to get involved in the protection of forests in connection with new or enlarged national parks, my question is: Will the Council of State ensure that such forest protection is established as a nature reserve, and thus clear replacement principles? By the way, I can finally express that I am from a municipality that has Norway's smallest national park, the Ormtjerk kamp, and we want it to continue to be at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e938	I can't wait to reflect on the interesting exchanges of views in the field of environmental policy that it might be in a government consisting of the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV. I have thought about this throughout the debate here. As regards the compensation rules in relation to protected areas, they were in fact amended during the Willoch administration. In this case, natural reserves were introduced that give entitlement to full compensation as if the area had been expropriated. So that's the kind of substitute we use for drifting forests when we put restrictions on today's forestry. It was the Willoch government that changed. The centre party has been in government without the Right. Then a finger was not lifted in relation to the replacement law, but as soon as the Right came back to the government, I started an investigation with a view to reviewing the replacement law. In relation to government cooperation, I think that if you really want to get the momentum to take care of the landowners' interests to a greater extent, I think the Central Party belongs more at home on the bourgeois side than with the other two that they are now cooperating with, and from which I have not seen any very great interest in the rights of landowners.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e949	The question of the 100-metre zone and the rights of the general public in the coastal zone is obviously very unpleasant to the Government and to the government parties. So they're also very unclear. It seems to me that this is about the following: Every spring and summer when the observations come about that large parts of the beach zone down the coast towards the South are built because of cabins and fences etc., Børge Burnde and Brother Yngve Rahm move out and say that here it is perhaps too bad a law. The representative, Rahm, even goes so far as to say that the loopholes have to close. However, when concrete decisions are taken in the Grand Duchy, the same parties land on the landowners' side each time. Nothing's going to happen here. They have not surprisingly joined the Progress Party in the setting and say that the situation is under control, and that there is no need to do anything here. Meanwhile, parts of the beach zone are still being built down. Does the Minister for the Environment really think that the situation is under control and that it is only enough to follow developments? This means that nothing is still going to happen, and so many people can do it. The government has also removed support for municipalities in order to provide legal assistance to start cases against people who have more than enough money and who run cases that local authorities do not have the opportunity to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e956	First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the legislation that I am dealing with in this area is the same legislation that the Workers' Party has designed and that they managed in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s, and also later when the representative himself was in government. We have not made any changes to this legislation, given that we believe that the situation with regard to the beach zone, like the Workers' Party, when they were in government, is under control. The latest figures from the reporting show that the number of exemptions in the 100 metre belt is stable. The figures also show that along Oslofjord and the south coast there are the small measures that dominate, and new buildings are mainly replacement buildings. In the past, both the replacement of windows and their enclosures have been counted in such a way that they have been blown up. In fact, I believe that the legislation that involves a large degree of local administration, but also an opportunity for national review – a regulation that is designed with broad consensus in the Stortinget past – is a sensible regulation. But of course we'll review this continuously.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e963	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e966	Norway’s sea areas are six times larger than the land areas. After four-five months in the government offices, the Government provided the ‘Rent and Rich Seas’, which stressed that we would have an active environmental position in marine policy, as well as St.meld. No 25 confirms. For a clean sea is a fundamental prerequisite for us as a nation to reap from a rich sea, and for us to continue to have a safe basis for marine value creation. It is therefore important to avoid discharges into the sea areas which increase the concentration of substances hazardous to the environment and to control chemicals hazardous to health and the environment and to discharge into the sea. The challenges in the marine sector are diverse. The seas bind together the nations, and therefore pollution of the sea is a common concern. Although we are getting more and more control over and restrictions on our own emissions here in the country, this is not enough. Much of the pollution has been transported for a long time and emissions, for example: of course, Norwegian sea and coastal areas are affected by the North Sea Basin. Fortunately, the fifth North Sea Conference in Bergen created consensus, as a framework for a comprehensive policy to maintain ecosystems structures in the North Sea. We must now keep up our efforts to ensure a positive development on a global basis, because the seas have been a garbage dump for far too long. In this way ballast water is now also a major challenge. The emissions of Sellafield have long been of concern and the Government has made considerable efforts to reduce and stop these emissions. Norwegian fish are pure food, and we can't accept British emissions destroying our kitchen garden. The petroleum industry is increasingly moving into marine areas at the heart of fisheries, both in terms of the vulnerable stages of resources and the area availability of fisheries itself. In order to enable coexistence between the fishing industry and the petroleum industry also in these areas, it is essential to avoid harmful discharges into the sea. The Barents Sea Management Plan, which we are now preparing, will help us to see different kinds of human activity in the context and to make the necessary choices to ensure the natural basis of these important marine areas. Ecosystem-based management is becoming more than just a target for marine resource management. The Johannesburg meeting encouraged the use of ecosystem approaches by 2010. OSPAR and ICES are other cooperation forums in this context. The Institute for the Exploration of the Sea, which is the Ministry of Fisheries' main adviser on the management of marine resources, is in the final phase of a reorganisation designed to improve their ability to conduct research and monitoring more systematically against marine ecosystems. The protection of coral reefs by the government is an example of the fact that knowledge of ecosystems provides an active basis for protection. For example, separate research groups have been set up for the main ecosystems, such as: Barents Sea ecosystem, Norwegian Ocean ecosystem, North Sea ecosystem. In addition, the new ‘GO Sars’ research vessel of the Marine Research Institute has provided researchers with a much better tool for the practical implementation of ecosystem-based research. It will gradually provide us with a safer basis for the management of our marine resources and the marine environment as a whole. We can also note that several important species, for example: Norwegian-Arctic cod, sej, hay and herring, are in good condition, precisely because we have established sustainable management and harvesting. The challenges for oil protection are primarily linked to the increasing oil transport from Russia. This has been met by the Government with active action. Among other things, the Government has strengthened the towing boat capacity in the north by three vessels. The aim is to minimise the risk, because an oil disaster could also be an ecological disaster. That is why we have also built up preparedness in a number of areas and with different measures, including emergency ports and beaching sites, the establishment of traffic centres, oil protection depots, etc., as I explained in the Stortinget a few weeks ago. There has also been a promising and important cooperation with Russia on oil transport, where we should be able to draw on experiences and resources from each other. On the fisheries side, the work of the international environmental organisations is central, because these forums define framework conditions that are important for a fisheries nation such as Norway. Important issues include: marine protected areas and the listing of endangered species, which also involve fish. We have an active policy towards introduced species, such as: The king crab. The Ministry of Fisheries has as a vision «Values from the sea – the future of Norway». It is a vision that we can only achieve by taking care of the marine environment, and I am pleased that there is a broad consensus that there are both important measures that have been implemented and that are ahead of a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e993	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e996	Those were fine words from the Council of State. In a note in the statement, the Workers’ Party, SV and the Centre refer to the cooperation project ‘Save the North Sea’, which makes the users of the North Sea aware of their own contribution by referring to seafarers, fishermen, recreational sailors and oilworkers who tell why they do not throw waste into the sea but rather bring it to land. Therefore, these parties propose: ‘The Government asks the Government to take the initiative in cleaning-up with participants from all North Sea countries, the maritime food cluster, the oil industry and recreational boat owners in order to remove waste from the North Sea.’ From that point of view, I assume that the Minister for Fisheries is also committed to cooperation. My question is then: Why are the government parties not involved in this proposal in the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1008	As regards the conservation of the marine environment and the marine environment in general, it is clear that it is important both to prevent the pollution caused by different activities and to clean up. Both parts of the government have an active attitude to, and we have programs running in different sea areas, it's in the North Sea as well as in the North areas, where a clean-up is done. This is a work that is going on, and in this way I do not see the need for further decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1013	I am pleased that the Council of State Ludvigsen has a clear focus on preparedness with regard to the risk of oil spills in the northern regions, and that he has a much higher ambition than the former state councils have had. In the context of the processing of the ‘Rent and Rich Seas’ notification, the Progress Party proposed the establishment of a traffic monitoring centre on Retan and its operation by the Coastal Works. It didn't get a majority. Afterwards, it has been decided that Vardø should have that traffic centre. Today, Reitan is widely used for vessel traffic monitoring. We think that's good. But why was Reitan not chosen when a traffic monitoring centre was to be established in the northern regions, when much of the equipment is already in place to monitor ship traffic?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1022	I am not sure of the appropriateness of addressing a debate on a topic that has already been decided. But what is clear is that the Government and the Storting have been in favour of and accepted the construction of a traffic centre in Vardø, and that, when it is established in a few years, it will play an important role in preparedness in the northern regions. There is close and good cooperation between the Defence and the Coastal Works in terms of preparedness, monitoring and action. We have seen that, not least when it comes to the creation of tug capacity. Defence and Reitan are and will be an active party in providing an overview of what is going on along the coast, both before and after the establishment of the traffic centre, just as private operators will be included in an overall preparedness, whether land-based industrial establishments are subject to specific emergency requirements, or the oil industry is subject to significant emergency requirements, or other activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1029	It is true, as the Council of State says, that more measures have been put in place to increase, among other things. the tug capacity of the north areas, in relation to the increased threat posed by the Murmansk oil cargo along the Norwegian coast. However, the large majority so far have not said is that the capacity increase that has taken place represents a satisfactory level of preparedness. In the Supplementary Communication on the 2004 appropriations, the Council of State sets out the risk calculations underlying the number of tugboats selected. However, those estimates assume that shipping will take place on average at 12 nautical miles off the coast, while the required head of the Coastal Works is between four and twelve nautical miles. And the closer you get to four nautical miles, the more the need for the number of tugboats increases. Can the Council of State try to calm me down on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1038	Increased oil traffic along the Norwegian coast from Russia is clearly a challenge, not least environmental. In this context, we have had repeated debates in the main hall during the autumn, and we have announced a big message where we will address this in the overall context, and also highlight the risks associated with it. In the budget under consideration in Stortinget, we have proposed three tugs in close cooperation between the Coast Guard and the Defence. In addition, on 1 January we are expanding the territorial border, and we are going to establish a fairway near the 12-mile border, just to get traffic a little bit more out of the coast. It does not prevent a tanker from going beyond the 12-mile limit, so it is a misunderstanding to believe that they have to go within the 12-mile limit. Otherwise, there are a number of other measures to improve safety and improve our ability to act if an accident occurs first. There will be cooperation between private, public and not least the defence resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1047	In these days there is a rather intense debate in the north about the problems surrounding the reopening of the Lofoten-Tromsøflaket. It is a matter that I know the Government will come back to at a later stage with a background in impact assessments, but I cannot fail to ask the Minister for Fisheries a question. In the light of what he himself said about the importance of being able to harvest a clean sea in the future, I would like to hear the Council of State's assessment of the possible reopening of this very vulnerable area in relation to the precautionary principle, and how to continue to reap a clean and unpolluted sea in the area of the country where we have the strongest current conditions, spawning areas and hiking areas for our main fish species, which, after all, will represent the future of this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1054	It is true that there are two major issues with implications in the marine environments of the northern regions. That's the 18th concession round, and that's the opening of the Barents Sea. To that end, the Government has made it clear that we both see the challenges related to the environmental and emissions problems and the contradictions of interest in the use of marine areas. There are clearly areas where there may be conflicts of interest in the use of marine areas in the region of Lofoten and northwards. The objective of the Barents Sea Management Plan is precisely to establish a framework for balancing the various industrial interests linked to fisheries, maritime transport and petroleum activities in the context of sustainable development. In this way, we have pointed to several relationships that are related to this, and we will come back to that when the government has concluded. Therefore, it would not be right for me to draw conclusions before the Government has completed this important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1063	I notice that the Council of State will not elaborate on why he has chosen four tow vessels for the whole of North Norway. Veritas’ calculations show that if all ship traffic had taken place four nautical miles off the coast, 28 boats would have been needed to have tug capacity well enough. The second calculation shows that if everyone had driven exactly 12 nautical miles outside, you would have needed four boats to have a good enough tug capacity. But the mandatory members that are proposed within vary from six to twelve, so on average more than four will be needed if traffic is to follow the required link. Then the Council of State is quite right in that tankers can choose to travel outside the 12-mile zone, but he can certainly also confirm that the shortest route from Murmansk to all markets, at least along the Finnmark coast to North Cape, is the closest possible along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1072	I can of course verify that the shortest line is also the right line. That's exactly why we've moved the territorial border to 12 miles and we're going to establish a fairway, because then we can force the ships further off the coast than we could do with the four-mile limit. So it'll be the ships free to go outside if it's desirable, but within the territorial border, we're in the process of establishing traffic controllers that make us have better control, and we can separate the traffic north-south. It will increase security, and it will increase preparedness and the ability to act if an accident occurs first. So it's like we've proposed for Stortinget and got accepted for three tugs this year, and there's suggestions on that next year. Then we're going to present a big message where we're going to come back to the future need in relation to the expected increase in traffic. I am not able to conclude until we have finished that work, and I think you should have patience to wait for it, precisely because the professional authorities have recommended that three ships in the ironed Røst-Brenense-Jakobself are sufficient safety in relation to the traffic that is there today, which will be there in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1080	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1085	It is, of course, useful and necessary to carry out repair and clean-up work in order to avoid contamination. What is, however, our golden challenge is the planning and construction of a society where the needs for repairs and post-employment are reduced to a minimum. Environmental policy is not exactly the centre of populism. It rarely brings rapid benefits to public opinion institutions, and on the stock exchange and in the cathedral it tempts a rather withdrawn life. It is all the more important that the foremost nation dares to take sides for those generations that still do not have the right to vote. Their existing conditions depend on material insomnia being subjected to a framework. Based on diversity and administrative responsibility, the Government implements different types of land protection and restrictions on emissions to air, water and soil. In the case of forest land protection, it is easier to agree on objectives than on instruments. Where environmental protection authorities have defined the need for biotopes, it is fully possible for forestry organisations to identify sufficient areas to meet this need. It assumes reasonable compensation for loss of income. The need for biodiversity and genetic diversity, I think, is best served by volunteering, reciprocity and education. Few are the foresters who view their property as a pure harvest. Far most define green values in a broad sense as part of their property portfolio. So it's going to be said that we humans are different, and that environmental policies probably can't quite work without the rice behind the mirror. We in the Right, however, believe that the rice should preferably be right there, namely behind the mirror. Few of the components of environmental policy are as balanced as the transport sector. Urative land use, traffic slumping, noise and air pollution require greater efforts on public transport. Therefore, qualitatively and quantitatively, government parties have provided a historical commitment to increase the collective share. In 2003 and in the 2004 draft budget, the annual collective effort has increased by 7.7 pst, respectively. and 4.8 pst. Moreover, it is interesting to note that more and more business players are now driving better public transport, because they see that increasing collective shares and fewer cars provide more space for business transport. There is every reason to pay tribute to the Minister for the Environment and to the Minister for Transport for Home and Outdoor Drives and Dynamics. Environmental policy is long-term and has become the nobility of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1096	It was not the ovations in the previous post that tempted me to take the floor in this case. I do not want to extend the debate, but I think that the Council's response to the representative Langeland when dealing with the large emissions of CO2 from the Snow White Gas Power Plant should be further commented. This is one of the biggest individual issues that this government is going to deal with in terms of CO2 emissions, and there was a complicated case during the negotiations at Sem. The Sem declaration states that CO2 emissions from the gas power plant at Snow White are to be subject to a CO2 tax. It has been quite quiet in a while, but I expect that there will be a substantial part of the treatment that the Council of State is now going to do in terms of Statoil's request to release 900 000 tonnes of CO2. There is an alternative. The 900000 tonnes of CO2 can be removed by adding a pilot project for CO2 free gas power to Snow White. Snow White is better suited than many other locations. This is because the gas coming from the Snow White field to enter the LNG plant is initially very rich in CO2. In order for the LNG to meet market requirements, parts of CO2 must be removed from the gas before entering the installation. Statoil has already started work on building a return line for that gas, and it is to be reinjected in the field. So the most expensive single component of a CO2-free system is already in place in the Snow White field. It is the construction of the return gas pipeline that is the large, heavy investment. All that goes on Snow White is that a separation plant is built to allow the removal of CO2 from the flue gas. Pipeline for reinjection is ready. That decision shall be taken by the Government. I believe that this is the testament to whether this is what the representative, Brother Ynge Rahm, said, that doubt should benefit nature, and that leading the var-principle really applies to this government. A more important single decision as to how much CO2 emissions Norway will be able to cope with when we arrive at the commitment period, the Swedish Council of State Børge Brende is hardly getting on its table. It's going to be interesting to hear a little bit more nuanced how the council reflects on these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1103	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 584]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1119	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1126	In Document No: 8:109 for 2002-2003 calls on the proposers to invite the Stortinget to ask the Government to initiate cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo and the voluntary organisations along Alnaelva on the establishment of the Alnaelva Environmental Park, which extends from Marka to the sea. Alnaelva is Oslo's longest river, and it runs through the Grorud Valley, which is the most populous valley here in the country. More than 130000 inhabitants live along the watercourse, for which the area represents a good opportunity for outdoor life and recreation. Living in a big city while having close access to this type of open-air area is quite unique and valuable for the experience of quality of life. Letter to the Committee on Energy and the Environment dated 26 September 2003 by Minister for the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Børge Brende, also points out that the intentions behind this Document No. The 8 proposal has already been taken care of. The Ministry of the Environment, in consultation with other departments, has entered into cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo on strategies and measures for a better environment in the Groruddalen region. It is mentioned here that the green structure, with Alnaelva as its main element, should be reinforced and further developed. This also includes cultural memories in the area. The letter also refers to the fact that the Oslo City Council has concluded an agreement with the Ministry of the Environment on the development of an environmental zone in the Groruddalen, where the aim is to see different environmental challenges together within an area and to implement coordinated measures to improve environmental conditions. Work initially concentrates on four selected geographical areas in the Grorud Valley, three of which are located at Alnaelva. The Ministry, through its reply to the Committee, states that the implementation of the Alna vision requires the development of new ideas and perhaps non-traditional projects, and underlines cooperation between state owners, local authorities, businesses, non-governmental organisations and schools in the area as key factors for success. An overall committee acknowledges the initiative already taken by the Minister for the Environment and his department in this matter, and also proposes that Document No. 8:109 for 2002-2003 is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1141	Although the steps clearly move in the right direction, the work to improve the environment in the Grorud Valley, which is Norway’s densely populated valley, is still at snail speed. On 22 October 1998 Guro Fjlangeng, Minister for the Environment, signed an interpellation on the possibilities of setting up Alna Umweltpark. So that's five years ago. In Oslo, city government has, among other things, The Labour Party spent money on Alna Umweltpark's budget every year since then. And a unanimous city council granted $3 million. kr for 2003 to a demarcated area. However, the improvement of the environment in the Grorud Valley must be a common objective for the state and municipality. The state is a major landowner in the Grorud Valley; most environmental problems are caused by state agencies. The Groruddalen stretches from the Middle Ages to the city border at Gülleråsen. Across large parts of the valley, Alnaelva flows as the Groruddalen’s blue-green nerve, as it also states in the development plan – one of the longest and most affected rivers in the metropolitan area, yes, perhaps in Norway overall. Alna has its sources in the field, runs past Bryn and down to the sea. Several kilometres of the river is closed – by traffic, industrial activities and residential areas. But where Alna is not closed, it runs through uninhabited areas. Many of these are secured as open air areas. By means of some urban planning measures, these could be made up of a large coherent green structure, consisting of natural elements, antique values and dwellings, for example. The multi-use plan Alna Umweltpark was established in due course on the basis of an initiative from the urban areas in the area. The municipality of Oslo has presented draft strategic green structure plan for the Groruddalen, with a vision of an open Alnaev in an attractive green corridor from Marka to the sea. In order to achieve this, cooperation is needed with several state agencies and overall state coordination, in interaction of course with the Municipality of Oslo, with the urban areas and non-governmental organisations, as the proposers have underlined. The most complicated Georgian knots in the area belong, as I have stressed, to state authorities. Historically, Alna was an important year of traffic. When Oslo was built at the mouth of Alna a thousand years ago, the Viking ships were pulled up on the sandbanks right here. From the history books we remember that Håkon Håkonsson pulled his ships up through Alna from Oslofjord and on to Øyeren. In the medieval ruins of Bjørvika and in the areas along Alna, there is a great deal of Oslo's identity and history – yes, of Norwegian identity and history. Upgrading the Alna area is therefore also an important cultural memory measure, together with the construction of the Medieval Museum and the development of Bjørvika as a new urban area towards the fjord. As a curiosity, I can mention that in 1986 the Oslo Workers' Party came up with an idea sketch for an Alna plan. On the basis of a political will to bet on the renewal of the Groruddalen, the party went among other things. for a protection zone of at least 20 metres on each side of the river, a continuous riverside network, the registration of ancient monuments, the preservation of the old industrial and commercial environments, the development of housing and the establishment of social and cultural sites. As I said, this takes a little bit of time. I am pleased that the Minister for the Environment wrote in his letter to the Committee on Energy and the Environment that improving the environment in Groruddalen is a common goal for the Municipality of Oslo and the Government. Old Oslo and Groruddalen have for years taken up the burden of state infrastructure development, which was reinforced, I regret to say, when establishing the main airport at Gardermoen. The Alna vision comes out of a dream of sustainable urban development in line with what happened to Akerselva Umweltpark, which is today a major asset for the local population, as it also stands in the setting. We got that project done. Now it remains to be seen whether there will be action out of the Alna vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1162	I agree with all the great things that have been said about the Alnavas stretch. There's a special watercourse in Oslo. We've discussed forest protection earlier today, and along the Alnavas line alone is no less than eleven different forest types represented. Now Oslo is special about biodiversity. Oslo, Asker and Bærum are the three municipalities in the country that have the richest biodiversity. And well, it's important to talk about the protection of forests and the protection of large national parks, but if we can't take care of the nature that lies close to cities, we can't protect biodiversity either. 60 pst. in fact, the plant species of the country are within the boundaries of the capital. 50 pst. in fact, the species of birds and animals in the country do the same. And no less than 370 species of carp, 400 species of fungus – of which 16 are listed in red – 10 mammals, 57 species of birds and 2 amphibians – we have small salamanders in Alnaelva – along Alnaelva. Alnaelva is one of the more exciting things we can have by near nature in Norway. At the same time, it runs through Norway's densely populated valley. So there are 130 000 people living in the Grorud Valley. This means that the Groruddalen, if you had seen it as a separate city, would have been the size of Trondheim. You need an environmental lift in the Groruddalen. I am sure that if the same environmental promise had been made for Akerselva, for Alnaelva, Alnaelva would have had the same meaning for urban development, for environmental improvement, as the Akerselva environmental park has received for the areas from Grünerløkka and up to Nydalen, which are today some of the more exciting areas we have in Oslo, both for housing and business development. There must be a vision of creating a broad political majority in Oslo. Obviously, Alnaelva has a historical suspense over it. Oslo, the capital of the country, is based on the banks of Alnaelva. Also industrial history is Alnaelva important. The Aker group was founded on Akerselva, but the Kværner Falls, which are linked to Alnaelva, laid the foundation for Kværner. Here, too, there's a lot of exciting cultural history related to the river. There is a great commitment, a network of non-governmental organisations working very actively to take care of the 11th century. And these voluntary environmental organisations and cultural organisations should be encouraged to share in this work together. I must say that I am very pleased with the initiative that the Minister for the Environment has taken in the matter, although I fully agree with the representative of Marit Nybakk that this is not going very quickly. But all the initiatives that are going in the right direction are positive here, and on this occasion we have seen reason to support under the measures promoted by the Council of State. But I have to say that I was a little surprised when I saw how the committee had dealt with this matter. The working party and SV were surprising, I'd say, standing alone about a remark that it says: ‘These members are satisfied that the Ministry considers that improving the environment in the Groruddalen, including support under the Alnavision, is a common objective for the Municipality of Oslo and the Government.’ This must really be a common goal for the government parties, the Workers' Party and the SV, in the light of the letter sent to the committee by the Council of State. I hope that the Council of State or someone representing the majority can confirm in the Chamber today that the objective of the Alna vision and the improvement of the environment in the Groruddalen must be common to both the government parties, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1182	This case shows that there is already a good cooperation between the Municipality of Oslo and the State on environmental improvements in the Groruddalen and along Alnaelva. It is important that Alnaelva Environmental Park is seen in conjunction with the other planned environmental improvements in the Groruddalen. This issue should also be looked at in a broader context and be a model for cooperation projects between municipalities and other countries in the country. This will be consistent with the last municipal proposition, including: place strong emphasis on local democracy, local participation and local self-determination. However, it does not exempt the state from responsibility for entering into mandatory cooperation with municipalities on important environmental measures. It is important to clarify that the Municipality of Oslo has the primary responsibility for improving the environment in the Groruddalen, but that the State assumes responsibility for important parts of the infrastructure that the State has in this area. The cooperation project of the kind that focuses on this matter is consistent with the tutorials that were created in St.meld. No 23 for 2001-2002, Better urban and urban environment. This message has invited cities and cities to create a new pilot project. developing environmental zones in cooperation with the State. The knowledge gained through the cooperation project in the Groruddalen may have a transfer value for other projects. The special and most interesting thing about this project is that it will lead to the development of new ideas and projects, and it will be a challenge for traditional planning and implementation. Volunteer organisations and schools in the area have also been given their legitimate place in the project. It shall be of particular interest to receive information on the organisation and sharing of responsibilities and costs between the various participants in the project. This will also apply to operations and maintenance where voluntary organisations can also participate in the joint efforts and efforts. Living in a city and having close access to valuable open-air areas is superfluous for recreation and experience of quality of life. I am pleased that the environmental improvements in the Groruddalen, which are consistent with the intention of St.meld. No 23, Better environment in cities and agglomerations, of course, this area benefits, and in addition, there may be a knowledge base for cooperation projects elsewhere in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1199	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 586]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1215	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1222	The size must now consider Document No. 8:87 for 2002–2003 through Innst. S. No 40 for 2003-2004. The SV’s proposal is mainly aimed at improving the monitoring of racial hazards in Norway, providing societal implications and concrete measures to prevent loss of life. The proposal also points to the need to take better account of local risks, the extent of damage, mental insecurity and regional considerations into account in the calculations. A comprehensive committee agrees that important issues related to the racial protection of migratory veins and of residential areas are addressed in this document. On the part of the Committee, it wanted to get a good overview of the different challenges. The Committee has also received this. In its letter of reply to the Committee dated 22 May 2003, the Council of State provides the Ministry of the Environment with a very thorough review of the work being carried out. Six different departments have expressed themselves in the letter from the Ministry of the Environment. This shows several things. The area is very extensive. There are a large number of actors and activities involved, and more authorities are responsible. The fragmentation of responsibility on so many players may be unfortunate. This is why it is good that an inter-ministerial working group has recently gone through the field and that responsibility for the various areas has been better clarified. The majority in the Committee consider it important — yes, it is assumed — that efforts to coordinate this work should continue. The Ministry of the Environment’s letter also states that a map of racial road sections has been carried out and that there is already an overview of the need to ensure county and national roads against race. Efforts are also being made to identify the best forms of protective measures and improved procedures for the closure of roads in the event of a raspour hazard. The main challenge will therefore be to implement racial protection measures in the many road sections that we know are racially dangerous. The majority of the Committee expresses itself as follows: ‘There appears to be no need for new investigation documents for Stortinget.’ This has also been stated by the Ministry of Transport in its letter of reply to the Committee. It is Norway’s geologic survey, NGU, that is responsible for the National Step Database. From 2004 onwards, the NGU will also be given the coordination responsibility for the State Scoring Programme. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade states that there is a major need for research and development in the field of step-by-step problems. And the NGU estimates that a map program of 2.5 million. kr per. years are too small to ensure a satisfactory overview of the outlying areas in Norway. A comprehensive committee therefore considers that there is a need to strengthen efforts to identify inhabited areas where there may be racial risk, so that concrete measures can be put in place. Municipalities are responsible for the spatial planning of all areas in the municipality, including ensuring that hazardous areas are made known. It is therefore important that local authorities improve access to racial hazard data, for example: avoid adding new residential areas to racially hazardous areas. It is necessary to follow up the efforts for tailoring through the annual budgetary procedures. I can also mention that the matter has been the opinion of the Committee on Transport. The majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, all other than the representatives of the SV, who promoted this proposal, urges the Stortinget to decide that Document No. 8:87 for 2002-2003 is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1256	I think the case rapporteur just had a very good account of the committee's consideration of this matter, and she also went to the depths of some of the subject matter. So I'll be careful to come up with some considerations about what I would call SV's well-meaning focus on this matter. In fact, there are also a lot of other people who are concerned about race and tailoring. Unfortunately, as so often before, this turns out to be unrealistic proposals and formulations that might suggest that it is possible to adopt itself out of the risk that, after all, it involves living under mountains, as it is called, and that is the everyday life of very many people in our country. Of course, no one wants human life or values to be lost. And great resources have been put in place to just avoid the race frames, so that this happens. In many counties, even in my home country of Hordaland, the race father is literally overhanging. In many contexts in the county and in the communities, the commitment and anxiety for this threat has been significant, because race is a natural part of our beautiful, but also dangerous, topography. However, this is not the way the SV’s new cost-benefit analyses will change this threat, even if they are developed centrally. Prioritisation of measures in relation to threats has given rise to the development of state-of-the-art and local plans for step-by-step safety. And with all due respect for the central authorities, the Road Directorate and others, I think there are few areas where local knowledge and priorities are more important. As I'm familiar with, there are racial hazard plans in the states that have this threat in particular, and the priorities are made according to these. But also in this area of our society, there will be a balance between risk and benefit, which, like those most affected by this, is well understood in their everyday life and in their work. I don't think anyone disagrees with the SV that this is a matter area that occupies many areas at risk. The difference, however, is that SV’s proposal reflects a belief that it is so much better if only the plan work is done centrally. The majority disagree. There is no money with SV's proposal either. In this area, there are no more investigations we need, but that we are able to concentrate on prioritizing resources so that we can solve the challenges in the order in which the states and communities have prioritised.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1271	This Document No The 8th proposal for 2002-2003 has been promoted by SV’s representatives, all of whom share the common belief that they live in racially exposed counties in the country – in the West and in North Norway. The starting point of the proposal, as also shown by the justification, is that in large parts of the country there are very many people living in racially dangerous areas. A lot of people have to drive on road routes at high risk to get to work or to school every day, and many live in daily fear of race. The question we then ask ourselves is whether Norway is doing enough to prevent, whether it is doing enough to secure the population. I believe that the discussion in the Committee on Energy and the Environment, and in particular the response from a number of departments, confirms our assumption that it is too small and that it is too late. The letter from the Council of State dated 22 May summarises the work on racial issues in the various departments. At the outset, it is confirmed that many trade unions and municipalities have experienced that responsibility for this area has been fragmented and fragmented. Not until spring 2001 initiatives were taken to coordinate racial protection work. An inter-ministerial working group was set up. The Ministry of Agriculture confirms that in 2003 20 million have been allocated. for measures to protect against damage to the natural environment. The need is 35 million. kr. From 2004 onwards, Norway’s geological survey will take over the responsibility for the State’s tailor-made mapping programme, including: the hazards of snowslides, rockslides and mercury clays shall be identified. Together with the Norwegian Geotechnical Institute, the NGU has identified the risk of major accidents. These programmes have been granted 2.5 million. kr per. years. NGU considers this to be too small to ensure a satisfactory overview mapping. The State Road Service has carried out a survey of the racial hazard along the road network. There are some 540 racially exposed sections on the highways, with a total length of 3,500 km, which represents 15 pst. of the national road network. It will cost 15 billion dollars to secure all the highways of the state and state. The cost of repairing the entire national road network to good standards is roughly estimated at NOK 400 billion. This means that with the level of funding of the year it will take between 30 and 40 years to secure the road network. If we go up to good standards, as it's called, all over the country, it'll take 200 years. In this year's budget, 0.5 billion kroner have been allocated for racial protection on the roads. One thing is how much we grant for racial protection. A more fundamental problem, I believe, is that the answers from the departments have demonstrated that there is a clear need to improve the understanding of social risks, and SV therefore calls for a process to reduce the risk of loss of human lives and values. Such a survey is deficient across the country. We should therefore have a better understanding and monitoring of steps as a societal risk. Let me give you some thought-provoking examples. We don't have an overview of the race risk in the country or any overview of how many people live in racially exposed areas. There is no mapping of the relationship between racial hazard and the relocation of humans and business. There is no estimate of the social cost of 200–300 increases in knowledge annually of a total of 1500–2,000 hours. With this in mind, I am surprised that the majority of the Committee will not support our proposal to have a comprehensive plan for the Storting on the future work on racial protection, a matter which we believe will indicate a national commitment in this area, which is absolutely necessary. Norway is a mountain, with high mountains and deep fjords, how many live and live in rosy areas. Why shouldn't this particular area be given the highest priority? Why should Norway not be the leading nation in the world in this area, in research, in monitoring and in effective action against race? The Committee has limited itself to identifying what needs to be done and to follow-up with annual budgets. It becomes too passive – here more than just words and good opinions are required, here action is required. That is why I am addressing the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1302	The representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen has taken up the proposal he referred to. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1307	This Document No The 8 proposal is an important document in focusing on the racial risk problem around our long-range country, whether it be migration, race, emigration or flood. Security in everyday life is one of the most important things for all of us. Therefore, it must be difficult for those who live with racial danger close to their daily lives. Many may wonder when the next race will come. Is it going to be today when I'm on my way to work, or are my kids being exposed to this when they're on their way to school? I see that this uncertainty is not good to live with on a daily basis. Research, monitoring and remediation are therefore important. In order to carry out these tasks, many actors and activities are in the process and several authorities are responsible here. An inter-ministerial working group has recently examined the field of work, and responsibility for the various areas has been better identified. It is important that we succeed in this work. In my area in the transport sector, it is mostly about racially safe specific road sections. In order to be able to prioritise right here, it is important to have the best professionally assessed basis. We're going to bet a lot on racial protection. The 2004 budget provides for approximately a quarter of the total budget. billion DKK in State resources. Many would argue that this is not enough, but I am constantly having to assess racial protection measures against other types of measures, such as: road safety throughout the road network. Racism is an important area for us in the Right, but we disagree with SV that we need new plans and investigations. We have a lot of knowledge about this today, and we need to build on this. The right-hand group supports the majority, who proposes to annex the proposal to the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1322	This concerns the submission by one of the proposers. It is possible that I did not get it well enough, but my point was that it is a very important topic that is addressed by SV. You'll all see it. Everyone thinks this theme is important. But it'll be a little easy when SV turns around, whether it's a parliamentary expression – if I can't say it in a slightly different way – without having 50 cents to add to it here. I think it's going to be a little bit of a little bit of a win. We can't plan for a risk-free society. That's essentially what I want to say. Now it was also clarified that all the proposers are from state states that are at risk. Yeah, who in Norway isn't from the state that's racially exposed? Swallow I, which is almost from the flatlands, can find places that are rascal. So this is a problem that we all at the Storting are concerned about. It is quite right that the representative from SV said that the responsibility here has been too much fragmented. However, a group was set up in 2001 — which is, after all, three years ago — to coordinate this, and the majority of the Committee expects it to continue its work. Besides, I think it's important and maybe a little special that SV here wants a general plan. In other contexts, they are very much for local maritime administration. It's rare we're as close to things as if it were this rock in our head, it's very local it's happening. Therefore, it should also be important for us that this planning – where the municipalities are responsible – be done locally. Then it's our responsibility to make sure that it's always enough money.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1335	I'll just comment on the last article. When this proposal was taken up by us, it was after even looking at what is done in the area of racial issues, and it turned out to be very deficient. It was made quite clear to us that in terms of monitoring, overview and assessment of consequences, what we have done in Norway in this area is very poor. That was the reason for addressing the proposal. And in order not to start putting heads and ears on what we should do immediately, we have suggested that a comprehensive action plan should be drawn up on how to work on racial protection in this country in the years to come, because there are so many departments involved. It has been important for us to announce that this plan will indicate that this area will be given a promise in the coming years. That's why we want an overall plan for racial protection. We think that is definitely what is needed. We follow up every year in the budget, for example. on transportation. We propose more money for racial protection every year. But that's not enough. We have to get an overall plan, and we have to raise this area, because it's required. It's so bad, the work that's been done before. And precisely for that to be coordinated, and for us to be able to develop further in this area, we propose this. It is surprising that the majority will not be in it. It is only noted that an interdepartmental group has been set up and that you are in the process. If you'd wanted to, you'd have supported the proposal, so we'd have raised this area, because it's required.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1348	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 586]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1364	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1371	Today we have a Document No. 8-proposal from SV to immediately stop any future experimentation and testing of Mixed Oxide Fuel, which we shorten to MOX. This is a proposal which is not accepted by the majority of the Committee, all except SV. Nevertheless, we have used the opportunity to discuss some of the activities of the Halden reactor. It is a unanimous committee which points out that the Norwegian participation in The OECD Halden Reactor Project will ensure the country’s basic competence in reactor technology and help maintain a satisfactory preparedness for accidents, monitor reactor installations in Norwegian neighbourhoods and ensure Norwegian involvement in international nuclear safety work. In addition, the project will benefit Norwegian industry and Norwegian research. It is also a unanimous committee which points out that the research at the Halden reactor has been regularly debated, among others. on the basis of the argument that research here contributes to the continued operation of old reactors in Eastern Europe. On the other hand, it can be argued that the reactors in Eastern Europe would still remain, but with poorer safety solutions. Similarly, it can be argued about the MOX research. While the proposers argue that the research on MOX in Halden facilitates the increased use of MOX internationally, the Government writes to the Committee in reply that ‘in the view of the government, the activities in Halden are unlikely to play a decisive role in whether new countries choose to use MOX or not’. Another argument that has been used for shutting down is the age of the reactor. When the concession expires in 2008, the reactor will be 50 years old. So the reactor has been granted a 2008 concession. The majority of the Committee believes that in favour of SV's proposals, changing the framework conditions of the Halden reactor will be in the middle of the period. At the same time, however, the Committee is taking this opportunity to point out that, at the next concession round, Norway needs to make a thorough assessment of all aspects of the operation of the Halden reactor. The Committee would point out that a majority in Finland. S. No 126 for 1998-99 concluded that a sample was set up to assess and make recommendations on the future closure of the Halden reactor. The majority emphasises that the purpose of this sample is to provide a decision-making basis on the issue of further operations. A letter from Minister for Health Dagfinn Højbräten to the Committee on Energy and the Environment was attached to the report. writes: ‘It is worth noting that when the IFE was granted a concession for the operation of the reactor installations in the period 2000-2008, one of the conditions was that the Institute was preparing an updated plan for the closure of the concessional installations...’ and ‘This plan is expected to be detailed in relation to the decommissioning of the reactors and metallurgical laboratories for further treatment and storage of spent fuel. It shall also include a cost estimate.’;» So this is a matter that the Storting will come back to. The Committee points out that the sample needs to focus on how to strengthen the activity related to MTO, Human Technology Organization, Control Room Development, Industrial Psychology, Process Monitoring and Virtual Reality, so that skills jobs in Halden and Norwegian competences can still be ensured, inter alia. reactor safety, where a majority of the Stortinge wishes to shut down the reactor or where safety reasons require such decommissioning. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1395	The majority of the committee rejects the proposal of the Socialist Left to stop any future experimentation and testing of Mixed Oxide Fuel, MOX, in the Halden reactor. The Norwegian participation in The OECD Halden Reactor Project shall ensure the country’s basic competence in reactor technology and contribute to maintaining a satisfactory preparedness for accidents, monitoring reactor installations in Norwegian neighbourhoods and ensuring Norwegian involvement in international nuclear safety work. This participation provides Norway with a good opportunity to take part in such research and provides opportunities for secondary research and building skills in neighbouring areas. The research programme is supported by a number of participating countries and finances more than 50 pst. of the budget. The Institute of Energy Technology, IFE, which is responsible for the project, has been granted a concession until 2008. Of course, concession treatment at that time will assess all aspects of research, but it is of great importance for Norwegian research to be at the forefront in such an important area. There are several older nuclear power plants in use in our neighbouring countries, and there are also new projects under planning. This shows that continued research is important to ensure that the strictest safety regulations are in place and that any gaps in technology used can be identified. It is therefore strange that some parties do not see Norway as a guarantor of safety in these facilities by participating in advanced research programmes in this field. Furthermore, it is an important element that MOX technology ensures the final destruction of weapon plutonium, as opposed to other solutions. The research helps to ensure that the destruction can be carried out safely. I would therefore recommend that the Storting join the committee majority's position to reject the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1412	The proposers of the Socialist Left Party claim that it is poor environmental policy to carry out research that improves the safety of the use of MOX fuel in nuclear reactors. This is a basic mistake. The safety authorities of the major nuclear power countries participate in and support the MOX experiments in the Halden reactor, because this research just increases safety and reduces the risk of accidents and radioactive discharges using this type of fuel. Furthermore, it is important to take into account that nuclear safety is a global issue, and we should all be pleased that the Halden business is involved in ensuring the safe operation of nuclear power plants in the world, and especially in our neighbouring countries, Sweden, Finland and Russia. There are large stocks of plutonium in the world today. These pose a risk of plutonium falling into the wrong hands, e.g. in the case of terrorists. Therefore, in its initiative, Global Partnership Against the Spread of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction, the G8 countries have taken steps to get rid of the surplus stock of plutonium just by burning it as MOX in existing nuclear power plants. The United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission uses Halden data to evaluate the calculation program for the use of weapons plutonium in MOX. The MOX experiments in Halden are therefore important to reduce plutonium stocks, which we must all be interested in. The proposal by the SV states: ‘Some people have tried to produce MOX as a future method of dealing with the surplus stocks of weapons plutonium that have accumulated after the Cold War.’ In view of the fact that the US and Russia have already agreed to use MOX technology in this way, and when the G8 countries also support this, it has to be said that the wording ‘single’ is a rather distorted representation of the facts. The proposers also claim that it is problematic to use MOX fuel in existing reactors, that it provides unstable reactors. This isn't right. MOX fuel is already used in light water reactors today without problems. Furthermore, the proposal refers in several places to the NUPI investigation report to the Ministry of the Environment on the activities of the Halden reactor. In this context, it is interesting to note that this report strongly criticises the professional environment for nuclear safety. The opinion of the Research Council states, inter alia: the opinion of the NUPI on technical issues and disciplines outside the scope of the NUPI’s competence. Among the examples mentioned by the Research Council are claims from the NUPI that MOX fuels require the construction of special reactors, and that MOX technology is not sufficiently developed for the incineration of weapons plutonium. If the SV proposal were adopted, it would probably lead to the Halden project being closed down. This would remove the basis for an international safety environment in which authorities acquire important knowledge in the field of safety. What the proposers will achieve with this, in addition to making the world a less secure place, you might wonder. The age of the Halden reactor has also been introduced as a factor in the consideration of this proposal. To say that there are many research reactors in the world that are older or older than the Halden reactor. Many nuclear reactors have also been licensed for 60 years because the safety authorities consider this to be safe. When you know that the Halden reactor – because it is used for research purposes – on average only operates half the time, while a power reactor operates around 90 pst. There is no reason to worry about the age of the Halden reactor. Furthermore, the reactor is regularly controlled by both the State Radiation Protection Agency and the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness. Of course, these services will not approve the operation of the reactor if the safety status of the reactor and the safety monitoring of critical components do not meet the strict safety requirements. The conclusion of the Progress Party is clear: the Socialist Left proposal is not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1434	SV is not so much concerned that the Progress Party does not support SV's proposal, because in environmental policy it is very, very rare that the Progress Party and SV are united. It is more worrying that all the other parties, including those who have been critical of the Halden reactor, are now burdened and broken by the conclusions that a previous one has had. SV has never hidden in this matter that we want to close the entire reactor together with Bellona and the environmental movement now. We've never hidden it. Nor have we hidden the fact that when it comes to MOX and experimentation with MOX, we have wanted to stop it. We thought what happened to us. in the summer, when a shut down entire reactor due to faults, possibly leaks, would cause more people to listen and more to take seriously that there is actually a nearly 50 year old reactor we are talking about. But then once. MOX, Mixed Oxide Fuel, is nuclear reactor fuel produced from reprocessed uranium and plutonium. Most countries store their spent reactor fuel, while others store it. Sellafield reprocesses. For that reason, there are other things. emissions from Sellafield on which everyone in Norway is angry. Then there's a little paradox, SV says, when BNFL, the owner of Sellafield, is one of the commissioners of the Halden reactor. Thus, an indirect may be involved in and participate in the release from Sellafield through the MOX research as a driver in Halden. Former Environment Minister Siri Bjerke took hold of some of this by ordering an impact assessment from the NUPI. It was delivered in April 2002. There is some reason why SV again raises a case about this. The conclusion in it is: ‘MOX research in the Halden reactor conflicts with a number of environmental and non-proliferation reasons that Norway has fought for in the past.’ It's very clear, according to the NUPI. Then it's clear that IFE and others will fight with beaks and claws against this conclusion and try to say that this has nothing to do with reality. But it is the NUPI that has delivered this report and that concludes with this. If one runs the reprocessing line that the Progress Party and all other parts of the Size minus SV want, and the MOX experimentation continues, the Halden reactor can help Norway, which advises BNFL Sellafield, to continue to eject from Sellafield. It's a cross of mind for SV. So SV is not supported today to stop the MOX experiments with the Halden reactor. I'm sorry. SV therefore has a different proposal than the actual proposal in Document No. The 8th proposal, simply to have a public selection to assess whether the MOX work of the Halden reactor is ‘only safety-related’, or whether there are other motives related to MOX experimentation as a direct or indirect input to the continuation of the reprocessing of plutonium and other things, thus impeding life in Sellafield. But even an independent public assessment was too much and too dangerous for any other party. That's very strange. In relation to the case that SV has brought up, there is one positive element, which the case-speaker Konglevoll had in mind, namely what Højbråten wrote in his letter of reply, and which is attached to the terms of the concession. By 31 December 2004, the IFE must draw up a ‘updated plan for closure’, a detailed plan and a ‘cost estimate’. Experience from other countries shows that decommissioning is a very expensive thing, and SV believes it is for some reason that this matter is in a way only pushed ahead of us in time. With this I take up SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1458	The representative Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1461	The debate on the Halden reactor is a repetition in Stortinget, and I would assume that it is not the last time that this room, on the initiative of SV, addresses the same issues that we have to discuss today. However, there is legitimate reason for a significant focus on this activity based on the field of work it represents. The size has discussed several times various problems related to the Halden reactor, and in particular the focus has been on experimentation and testing of MOX. In my opinion, however, it is little new that has emerged since Stortinget last discussed this matter, and that is therefore no basis for a different conclusion from the one the Stortinget has previously chosen. The Committee refers to the referral in connection with the notification of St.meld. No 22 for 1998 99, where a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left were in favour of setting up a sample to assess and make recommendations relating to the future closure of the Halden project. In a letter dated 24 October 2003, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade confirms that the sample is now in operation, but cannot conclude on the outcome of the work of the sample, including: in relation to what will happen when the concession period of the project expires in 2008. The Christian People's Party has joined the majority in the vote, stressing that a concession has been granted until 2008, and that it will not be natural to change the framework conditions in the middle of the period. The same majority point to the need for an overall review of all aspects of the business at the time of the next concession procedure. Once the concession period is over and the appointed sample has finished its work, the Storting will have a good decision-making basis in relation to the closure, possibly further operation of the Halden reactor. It would therefore be natural for the Socialist Left proposal to be seen in such a context, and there should be no need for another sample to review the issues addressed by SV. Of course, the government parties are also focused on the challenges that SV and others in this room are facing, but believe that the work that has now begun could provide the answers that are being sought, and that the Stortinge will therefore have a good opportunity to come back to this matter at a later stage. The proposers indicate in the setting that the Government’s objective is that Norway should work towards the long-term storage of nuclear fuel instead of reprocessing. I would like to stress that the fact that the government parties do not support the SV proposal submitted is not a breach of stated objectives, including: in connection with St.meld. No 25 for 2002-03, on the Government's environmental protection policy and state of the state of the state of the state. It is my opinion and the Christian People's Party's view that the desire for a comprehensive review of the Halden project at the end of the concession period in 2008 is consistent with the government's objective. On this basis, I recommend to the majority that the Socialist Left's proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1476	The Halden reactor has been up for debate in Stortinget at various intervals, and I understand that more people here have debated it before. For my part, it's the first time I'm in on this. I think it's important that it is brought up for debate. The points of view are quite different – we have heard that here today as well. It has, for example, noted that the research carried out by the Halden reactor contributes to the continued operation of old reactors in Eastern Europe. That could be bad enough. On the other hand, it can be said that these reactors would be operating anyway, only that the security solutions would be worse. Similarly, it is argued that research on MOX in our country facilitates the increased use of MOX internationally, while on the other hand – in this case in a letter to the Board of Directors in May 2003 – it is said that Halden’s activities are hardly relevant to whether new countries use MOX or not. When questions related to the Halden reactor were raised in Stortingen in the previous period, a majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment considered that a selection should be set up to assess and make recommendations in view of the future closure of the Halden project. The centre party was included in this majority. The same majority was also clear on which tasks the sample should have. The most important thing was to maintain competence so that Norway’s role in improving reactor safety and waste management can be maintained. In addition, the national emergency response should be further developed. This is well and good. But the sample should certainly start this work much earlier. In letter of 24 October 2003, the Ministry of Industry and Trade wrote to the Committee that the selection is now in the process of being operational. This can hardly be described as a strong wording. It is therefore important to keep a close eye on this work. The Institute of Energy Technology, IFE, has an operational concession until 2008, and the work of the sample must be closely monitored. The results they come up with become important. And no matter what they come to, this matter has to be re-examined in good time before 2008. When we now deal with this Document No. The 8-proposal from SV, which demands the immediate stop of any future experimentation and testing of MOX, is going to be a little fast. It will be to change the framework conditions of an enterprise in the middle of the period without notice. But we need to be aware that this is a very serious problem, and also in the Central Party there are shared opinions about the Halden reactor. It becomes too easy to say that some people are occupied with jobs and some are concerned with security, but there is still a debate in our party about the Halden reactor. We live with that, but we'll follow the developments in the committee as closely as we can, and also look at other possibilities. Anyway, it has to be right to act nuanced. It is not easy to ignore the fact that the Halden project represents an environment where all the main interests in security research are represented. IFE is the host of the International OECD Halden Reactor Project. Organisations from 20 countries participate in the project. Research is concentrated on safety and operational reliability at nuclear power plants and other complex process plants. It will therefore be very important to address these challenges in the future. For the question, what will happen to the Halden reactor in 2008? We need to have a good knowledge of this in order to make the right decision when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1491	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1494	As a Haldenser and former rapporteur in Halden, of course, I am committed to and have a good knowledge of the Halden project. The work of the Halden reactor ensures the basic competence of Norway in reactor technology. The Halden project is internationally recognised as the world's leading nuclear safety research project. This gives Norway a unique opportunity to be an international driver of improved nuclear safety and preparedness. The project's extensive cooperation with Swedish nuclear power plants and with the Kola plants in Russia under the nuclear action plan contributes to increasing the safety of reactors in our neighbourhood. The SV representatives' proposals are based on completely wrong assumptions. Testing of MOX at the Halden reactor does not contribute to increased use of MOX fuel in other countries or to increased reprocessing at Sellafield. This is documented in the report of the State Radiation Protection Agency on the MOX and in the Research Council's opinion on the NUPI report. Approximately all of these have already been saved. 200 tonnes of separated plutonium from civil nuclear power, in addition to 100 tonnes of weapon plutonium. The only way to destroy the surplus stocks of plutonium is by burning as MOX in reactors. This is the main reason why the Swedish government has allowed the use of MOX in Swedish reactors, and that the United States and Russia cooperate to destroy weapons plutonium by using MOX in reactors. The testing of MOX in Halden helps to increase the safety of the use of MOX and to reduce plutonium stocks in the long term, providing increased safety and a better environment for the world community. I would also like, as much as I can, to underline the meaning of the ‘Atomen’, as it is called on the populace, for the business and higher education community in Eastfold and, in fact, for the rest of the country as well. A number of Halden project products and systems have formed the basis for Norwegian industry and business, such as the development of the simulator systems for Gullfak, Oseberg and Troll, to name a few. Locally, the Halden project is invaluable. This Halden environment has developed a reputation as one of the foremost in information and communication technology in the country. Cooperation between the College in Eastfold and the IFE was an important factor in obtaining major studies in IT in Halden. There is also a significant headshot from the activity at the atom. I would like to mention in particular OM Technology Energy Systems in Halden, formerly Hand-El, which generates approx. 160 jobs, exporting computer programs and decision support systems for energy supply to a number of countries. According to the Research Council, a ban on MOX experiments in the Halden reactor will most likely lead to the closure of the Halden project, because heavy participating countries are interested in the MOX programme. Therefore, if the proposals of the SV representatives are accepted, it means that the largest international nuclear safety programme in the world is discontinued and that the activities of the IFE in Halden and its utility for Halden and Norway are compromised, without it having any impact on the activities of Sellafield. So what SV now claims, that the Halden reactor contributes to the continuation of Sellafield emissions, in my opinion, is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1510	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 586]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1526	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1533	The focus on new renewable and environmentally high energy sources has been steadily increasing in the last year. The winter 2002–03 was the most rainy winter of over 70 years, and it coincides with long-lasting and severe cold in the whole of the Nordic region. This provides support for focusing on alternative energy sources. One interesting alternative is solar energy. We record that in recent years it has become a growing Norwegian photovoltaic industry with several actors within an international solar market in strong development. This would not have been possible without a long-term and targeted knowledge building of competence in the industry. Since the 1970s, solar use has been a current research theme in Norway, and the Research Council has contributed to the participation of many Norwegian companies and R & D environment in international cooperation projects. A Norwegian contribution to the development of solar energy can help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In a global perspective, the use of solar energy can be an important source of sustainable energy supply in the future. Solar cells generate electricity without significant impurity either in production or in use. Different solar cell designs can be integrated into existing architecture without the need to act in a shady way. Research in the field of renewable energy is currently under way, and research in the field of the photovoltaic industry must compete with other research on funds from the Norwegian Research Council. The Research Council has provided between 8 and 10 million. SEK for research before solar energy. Enova is working with targeted knowledge to provide the most environmentally friendly and cost-effective energy devices possible. This is in line with the decision taken in connection with the Innst. O. No 59 for 2000-2001 and it will be difficult to defend a unilateral state investment in the PV industry, as proposed by the proposers in this case. The majority of the Committee has assessed that a unilateral investment in the PV industry would not be consistent with the cost-effectiveness and technology neutrality contained in Enova’s objectives and instruments. The majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment points to the need for the Norwegian Research Council to give priority to current solar industry-related projects. The majority further indicates that the PV industry can apply for the TaxFUNN funds to strengthen its R & D work. The photovoltaic industry has also received funds from SND and others. through support to ScanWafer’s two photovoltaic disc production plants in Glomfjord. In this allocation, the SND also emphasised the importance of regional policy considerations. The introduction of solar cells can be strengthened in the future by the introduction of a mandatory green certificate market. About a third of the people on earth lack access to modern energy supplies. Unfortunately, the problem is greatest in developing countries. Access to energy is important in order to achieve sustainable development, combat poverty and raise living standards in these countries. The negotiations in the WSSD in Johannesburg and the final outcome of these negotiations put pressure on all countries to use existing energy sources more effectively and focus on the use of renewable energy. While there is a good incentive to increase the use of solar energy in several developing countries receiving aid from Norway, it is important to stress that the principle of solar investment in these countries needs to be coordinated with their own plans and priorities. Solar energy can also be used for small scale electrical energy production. There are areas in the world where people have trouble getting fuel or other energy to cook food and get hot water. Small solar cooks that use solar energy and provide enough energy for small cooks that are used in ordinary households can be a good alternative. Norwegian solar photovoltaic energy is growing steadily and is already well established on the world market. This industry, in cooperation with research institutions, has developed special and high skills in the field of solar photovoltaic energy. I would like to thank the members of the Committee for constructive cooperation. SV has its own suggestions, as described in the setting. Otherwise, I would like to recommend to the committee its proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1556	Just a brief comment. For a former industrialist, of course, the intention of the proposers is to do Norwegian solar power world-leading, very good. However, where the majority do not follow the SV’s proposal, it is because this type of project must be treated equally and treated by the institutions set up for this purpose. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has stated that they will pursue a policy allowing renewable energy production development and demonstration facilities. The initiative for such projects must, in the majority's view, come from industry in cooperation with relevant research institutions. In the opinion of the majority, Enova has to be responsible for assessing projects of this category, and it would not be consistent with the cost-effectiveness and technology neutrality of the Enova objective if the Stortinge had to give priority to some projects. I therefore agree, despite the good intention contained in the proposal, that the Minutes should be annexed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1565	The main environmental challenge facing humanity is that we should replace the large amounts of fossil fuels by forms of energy that do not lead to an increase in greenhouse effect or in any way contribute to an increase in climate change. It is a global challenge of such a dimension that it should be up to all countries to seek to contribute. It should be up to Norway, in particular, to try to play an active role, we who have earned our great fortune to contribute to climate change being what it is today, as we have earned our money through oil. From a global perspective, the development of an industry that can supply the world with solar cells is crucial if we are to meet this challenge. If sustainable development is to be created, it is not possible to achieve a sustainable industrial policy. A sustainable industrial policy is not just about trying to create businesses that pollute a little less than the last generation of companies do, but it is about trying to create a business policy that actively contributes to solving the major environmental challenges we face. The solar industry we've seen grow in Norway is such a type of industry, and it's a very strategic assumption that such an industry is coming up and standing, if we're going to have nubjeschanze to solve the climate noise. Fortunately, there is a good development internationally. In the last 20 years, the use of solar cells has increased by about 20 %. 20 pst. in the year, and for 2001 and 2002, it has increased by 35 pst. This is a huge increase that we should be happy for. In the middle of this is Norwegian industrial enterprises which have a large share of this rapidly growing world market. ScanWafer, also referred to by the rapporteur, has 20 pst. by the world market in the case of wafers today. Wafere are the plates you use to make solar cells. It's having 20 pst. of a world market that has grown by 35 p.m. in the last two years, providing such opportunities for future value creation that I do not know about any other Norwegian sector that is close to it. Globally, the United States, Germany and Japan are the main countries with an active policy to promote the use of solar cells and to be technology drivers. This has not happened because there have been some politicians talking about technology neutrality and that we should be cost-effective – it has happened because a political choice has been made that this is an industrial development that you want. Germany may have come further. They alone have almost 10,000 jobs linked to this industry. I'm recording that the majority doesn't want to be involved in making any strategic choices for the future. It's a misunderstanding when the majority refers to this going across the guidelines we have for Enova. This is not primarily about Norwegian energy supply. This is about being involved in playing a global role. This is about being involved in making a strategy that we can help supply a rapidly growing world market with solar cells. It is sustainable industrial policy for the future, which the majority cannot see. Technology neutrality is nice when you don't want to bet. But there can be no doubt that if there is anything that can help to replace fossil energy sources globally in the long term, it is that we get a solar industry up and up. Just think about what's happening in developing countries: Two billion people don't have access to electricity. If we are able to ensure that the most environmentally friendly option is competitive, we will avoid major problems in the future. This is an industrial development based on the best in the tradition of the Norwegian powerful industry. That the majority is unable to see the possibilities and to participate in strategic decisions, I think I'm boring, but I'm recording it. I refer to the proposal that SV is left alone in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1587	The representative, Heidi Sørensen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1590	I'd like to focus on a few brief comments. I share without delay the commitment and enthusiasm expressed by the big business representative Heidi Sørensen when it comes to using Norwegian competence to develop a solar industry. I believe, however, that there is no reason to say that the majority will not participate in a forward-looking strategy for such renewable energy, as she was going to express herself. I am referring to the fact that I have provided additional answers to all the questions and proposals that SV's representatives have made. I also refer to the full explanation provided by the rapporteur. There is therefore no disagreement about precisely the objective of promoting Norwegian industrial policy in combination with a forward-looking energy supply specifically targeted at developing countries. There are just questions about which instruments a person wants to use. I am referring to the fact that ScanWafer has considerable success without special tools being used, in addition to those available today, which have proved to be useful. I got myself involved in the opening of ScanWafer's new facilities on Her Island this summer. I think we have every reason to be both proud and satisfied that the industrial tool has been very involved in the start-up of this important industry. Both the conversion of energy use and energy production are central to government policy. We have, with Stortin's agreement, used the instrument that Enova, among other things. represent, to establish a number of support schemes and other instruments. The objective for us in terms of national targets is to provide the most environmentally friendly and energy-saving units in the most cost-effective way possible. It is in line with the fact that the majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment has joined the position on this matter. I think that the majority has managed to express an commitment to this matter, without a detailed guide to this in a way that I do not think is appropriate. I rather want a general strengthening of the work on environmentally friendly energy conversion in Norway, and I point out that this work has started very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1601	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 586]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1617	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1624	The proposer argues that maritime operators have had and continue to have weaker welfare rights in relation to maternity and care for children than workers. For example, maritime workers and other economically active workers are treated differently in respect of entitlement to care allowance in the case of sick children. The representative, Marit Arnstad, addresses a very topical issue in his proposal. It is important that welfare rights are designed to facilitate the start-up of businesses, especially among women. The Government wants more people to establish their own activities and should therefore facilitate the economic security of maritime operators in the event of a loss of income. It is also important that it is possible to combine such activities with the care of young children. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure a fair distribution of the costs of popular protection between the social security system and the trader. An overall committee shows in the attitude that today's maritime business pays a lower amount to social security than workers, and that the right to some social security benefits as a result is limited. Under the rules in force, a sea-going trader may take out insurance for the addition of sickness benefits, maternity benefits, adoption benefits and maternity benefits. Care allowance in the case of a child’s disease is not covered by this supplementary insurance. The Government has set up an inter-ministerial working group to assess the duties and rights of sea-going traders in relation to pregnancy, childbirth and care for young children. The nomination of the working party will be made by 27 February 2004. An overall committee agrees that the proposal to grant seafarers the right to care allowance should be assessed in the light of the working group’s investigation. The government's proposals for changes will come in the next year. The proposal in Document No. 8:112 for 2002-2003 is therefore proposed in the Annex to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1637	I will spend significantly less time than the 5 minutes allocated to me. I have just a few small comments, because I think the case-rapporteur presented the position of the Committee on Budgets in an excellent way. You can see in the setting that there are comments from SV and the Center Party. If you read the comments, you might get the impression that this is a discord. The two parties wrote that it is important that the work of the group be completed by the end of February, while the Government has actually announced that this working group will present its work by 27 February. So this really has to do with whether you trust what's in the letter from the Social Minister of the Committee or not. I choose this time to trust the Council of States. The Progress Party shall be a member of the majority of the Committee. I think it's important that we get the type of review that has been notified. But it's important to also take into account what the committee says, that here you have to look at the relationship between what you pay in and what you want out of these schemes. It is quite clear that there are other rules that apply to the self-employed, and it is very good that we are now getting a complete review of the arrangements. So we look forward to that review. We do not take a position on this matter now. We will await the group's work and possibly a matter in Stortinget, and then we will make a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1646	I would first like to refer to what the rapporteur said, and join it. Together with the rest of the committee, we naturally find that the right of maritime workers to care for children's diseases is included in the work currently being done in the Ministry on the duties and rights of this group in relation to pregnancy, childbirth and care for young children. The Ministry says that the working group in progress will finish its work by the end of February. When it comes to Harald T. Nesvik just said, it's not like we have some kind of distrust of or don't trust the social minister. Our clarification in this comment, about which SV and the Center Party are united, is simply that we make it clear that we want the matter submitted to the Stortinget. I assume that the work of a group in the department doesn't necessarily end up in something that comes to Stortinget, and that's the reason for the comment. It is important that we now have good and predictable rules that ensure the well-being and care of children in the event of disease, including in the case of marine operators. And then I would like to remind you that in popular order, there is a connection between the duties you have, for example. the social contributions you pay, on the one hand, and the rights you have in relation to social benefits and schemes, on the other. This is how you pay in according to your ability and get something back when you need it. And this must, of course, also apply to maritime traders, as to employees. But we'll have the opportunity to come back to this when the government presents the matter to the Stortinget, after the work in the department is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1655	The Christian People's Party believes that there is a very important issue raised by the proposer. It is about equality between men and women, and it is about having the same opportunity for self-employed workers as for other active workers. For many women, it may be difficult to focus on setting up their own businesses when they do not have financial security through care for young children. It is very important to facilitate women, and especially young women, who dare to use their creativity and commitment to innovation and re-establishment. The size took a major step in the right direction when, in the spring session, we amended § 14-13, so that a pregnant, self-employed person is entitled to maternity benefits if she is at work exposed to the same risk factors as giving a pregnant worker the right to maternity benefits. The proposer clarifies in today's Document No. 8-proposal that self-employed persons and other economically active persons are treated differently with regard to entitlement to care allowance in the case of sick children. The scheme of care benefits is a good scheme for employees with children under 12 years of age. It gives each parent the right to leave with care allowance for up to 10 days. Parents with two children are entitled to 15 days each. It is easy to understand that self-employed people want a similar system. At the same time, it is right to show that a self-employed person pays a lower amount of social security than workers and that therefore the right to some social security benefits is limited. Self-employed persons may take out supplementary insurance. However, this insurance does not apply to care allowance in the case of a child’s disease. An interministerial group is currently working on, inter alia: this issue. The Christian People's Party expects one to arrive at a reasonable distribution of the expenses of popular security between the social security and the self-employed woman, so that she will have financial security at home when the children need care.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1674	The arrangements applicable to maritime operators in relation to workers are justified by the fact that they are divided into two groupings. One is the wider arrangements relating to maternity leave, maternity benefits and adoption benefits. I agree with the Committee's assessment that here we need to have a thorough review, among other things. relating to the possibilities which insurance conditions may offer. But then there are two arrangements that stand out a little, both because one cannot take insurance against them, and because they are more focused on the child's having good arrangements than parents having the possibility of welfare arrangements. It is the scheme that applies to maternity benefits in the last half of pregnancy when there is a risk to the foetus – as the Storting has already arranged – and there is a care allowance scheme when the child is ill. The care allowance scheme when children are ill is not a question of welfare schemes related primarily to their parents, but there is a question of children of sea-going traders having the same right to well-being when they are ill, as children of workers. That is why I believe that the system that we are discussing today through Document No. The 8 proposal is slightly different from those relating to adoption, maternity or maternity leave for seafaring traders. I note, however, that the majority wants this to be seen in the context of the broader review that is now to be carried out by this interministerial sample, and I choose to interpret it positively. I choose basically to interpret it there that even in this case, the Government, as it did when it came to maternity pay, wants to come back with a proposal that it can say is its own, rather than join a proposal from a representative of another party and from this Chamber. For me, it's okay, only we get a result in this case that makes the seafaring business get the same right to well-being when the children are ill, as the workers do. Here is the result of the matter that is important. If that means that the signal in this case is actually a signal that the Government and the Minister of Social Affairs are coming back and will take the credit of the matter seam, it's okay. But I think it’s a problem – and that’s also the background to the Central Party’s and SV’s special comment here – that it takes so long to get something presented in these cases. In connection with the issue of maternity benefits, the Minister of the Family also pointed out that there were interministerial investigations going on here, and used it as an argument that she would postpone making a specific decision on the matter. Once again, we see in this case that it is used as an argument that one should wait. We just have to take note of that. However, the Central Party and the SV have found reason to stress that from the time of the submission of their work by the Interministerial Group in February, it should not be too long before the Government also submits a case to the Stortinget, so that the Stortinget will have the opportunity to take a decision in this case. In my opinion, there have already been assessments in several departments for too long, and it is time for us to come to the time when we can actually also make a decision on such an important matter. However, once again, the central party seems that the issue of maternity leave and maternity allowance related to a seafaring trader is a comprehensive and, in part, difficult issue, but the question of care allowance for sick children is a question of having children of these children have the same right to have their parents with them as children of workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1687	The left is not represented in the social committee, so I have some brief comments on the matter ahead of us today. The left is pleased that the representative Arnstad now also shows care for founders and self-employed women. This is a region left and the government has been very busy for a long time. The effort to get more women to start their own business will be an important focus in the further work of the Government's innovation policy. The government has worked to give self-employed and freelancers the right to equal pay for maternity benefits in line with employees. This was introduced with effect from 1 June 2003. The government has also reduced an inter-ministerial working group to assess the duties and rights of self-employed persons in relation to pregnancy, childbirth and care for young children. In this context, the need to strengthen self-employed workers' rights will be assessed more closely. But I agree that care leave is also an important piece to look at in that context, and to evaluate all the rights and duties of self-employed women and have the greatest possible focus on this. Norway relies on more people starting their own business. Left thinks it should be as natural to create your own job as it is to be a wage earner. Not least, we need more women's founders, who have also shown international investigations. There is cross-political consensus that we need knowledge and innovation as a basis for future business. One obstacle, therefore, may be the discrimination between self-employed and self-employed persons, whether they be men or women. Newfounders take a chance selling their services in an open market. Left thinks it's a good social liberal policy to give a handshake to women who drive or plan their own business. I am very much in agreement with the representative Arnstad, who said that the result is the most important, and I really hope that, when this matter comes to Stortinget, we can have a debate and make decisions in this room that will secure the children and the rights and duties of self-employed women, so that they can stand on and start and run their own business.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1702	Today the legislation is such that a worker who is caring for children under 12 years of age is entitled to care allowance when he/she has to be away from work when the child is ill. If you care for more than two children, care allowance is provided for up to 15 days. Care allowance should be paid by the employer for up to 10 days. Social security covers social welfare days beyond this. The self-employed person is not entitled to social security benefits. The scheme of care provided by family allowances at the time of the hospitalisation of children or in the event of a very serious illness and training allowance for parents with disabled children also includes self-employed persons. Social security is financed from three sources: membership fee paid by individual employees employers’ contributions paid by employers’ government grants Employees pay social security contributions of 7.8 pst. In addition, an employer’s fee is paid, which in central terms is 14.1 pst. Self-employed people pay social security contributions at 10.7 p.m. As a result, self-employed people pay significantly less to have the same rights in the social security system. Many self-employed people, especially women in one-man enterprises, find it problematic that they are not entitled to benefits if they have to be at home when the child is ill. Self-employed persons may take out supplementary insurance for sickness, maternity and maternity benefits. However, this supplementary insurance does not include care allowances. The Rikstrøgdeverket does not have statistical material to enable the exact economic and administrative consequences of granting self-employed entitlement to care allowance in the event of a child’s illness to be calculated. On the basis of specified assumptions, the additional expenditure is estimated at 135 million. kr, cf. also what I have written in a letter to the Social Committee dated 27 October this year. In addition, the costs of administration are incurred. As I have explained in a letter to the Social Committee, an inter-ministerial working group has already been set up to review and assess the rights of self-employed persons in relation to pregnancy, childbirth and care for young children. The government is concerned with value creation and what measures can stimulate entrepreneurs to dare to establish themselves. Welfare services such as this may be one of the measures. The need to strengthen the rights of self-employed persons must therefore be assessed with particular emphasis on: birth rates, value creation, innovation and equality. The report of the working party shall be finalised on 27 February 2004. I think it is natural to await the report of the working party before considering the reasons for improving the social security rights of self-employed workers, how such a device should possibly be and how it should be financed. When the working group comes up with its position, it will also be possible to see this in a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1731	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 587]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1749	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 587]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1767	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 587]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1785	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 587]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1803	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 588]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1822	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 588]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1830	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1837	In the course of the debate, 16 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 2 and 3, by Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 4, by Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 5, by Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 6-9, by Øyvind Korsberg, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party, 10 and 11, by Mr Korsberg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals Nos. 12–16, from Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Hallgeir H. Langeland has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1864	SV has been asked to make proposal No. 14 to a transmission proposal. I therefore asked that the proposal be sent.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1869	The representative of Langeland has requested that SV's proposal, No. 14, is converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘The Government is recommended to draw up an environmental regulation for forestry in the context of the revision of the Forest Act in order to ensure minimum environmental certification requirements.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It is considered biphasic. The President will first vote on the proposal No. 12, 13, 15 and 16, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for measures to support the intentions and rights of the Environmental Information Act.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with a case concerning the establishment of a Forest Protection Fund in the context of the Revised Budget 2004.’;» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the legislation and reverse the burden of proof so that instead of the authorities having to prove that a substance is harmful, the industry is responsible for proving that it is not.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government, at the latest in the context of the Revised State Budget for 2004, to come back with a package of measures that, by the time the ban enters into force in 2005, is actively contributing to the achievement and release of theincreased potential by replacing fluorescent lamp luminaires with PCB capacitors.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1909	Proposals Nos. 10 and 11, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to propose the repeal of Section 17-2 of the Law on Planning and Building – on the prohibition of building and dissociation in the 100-metre seat belt along the sea.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to take action to remove the restrictions imposed by LNF on areas that must be designated as built.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1931	The proposals are then put to the vote. 6, 7, 8 and 9, from the Advance Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to base the extension of coniferous protection mainly on the principles of voluntary protection and to adapt the ambitions for the extension of the protection to available means.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government not to create a large new nature reserve in Trillemarka – Rollag Østfjell in addition to the part of Trillemarka that was protected in 2002’.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out a new evaluation of forest protection by 2010 in which the results of voluntary protection work are assessed. It is assumed to involve top competence in forest status and environmentally adapted forestry in the evaluation and that societal competence assesses the protection processes themselves.’» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to use reserves as a form of protection when reforestation takes place in the context of national parks in order to avoid uncertainty about the principles of compensation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1963	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to ensure that the Art Database becomes operational as soon as possible and by the end of 2003 at the latest.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1978	Proposal No. 4, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, to voting. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the construction of a new traffic monitoring centre in Vardø, which is a central measure to improve control of maritime traffic along the coast.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e1993	Proposals Nos. 2 and 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a plan to escalate forest protection to 4.6 pst. within a period of 10 to 15 years. Different forms of funding, including a forest protection fund, have to be considered in this work.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to come back with a case for strengthening the economy of the organisations operating in the open air and other outdoor activities, inter alia. by allocating funds to a greater extent than at present. The allocation of funds must be additional and not substitute for, inter alia: funds allocated over the budget of the Ministry of the Environment.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e2015	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to take the initiative in cleaning-up with participants from all North Sea countries, the maritime food cluster, the oil industry and recreational boat owners in order to remove waste from the North Sea.The Government is also asked to take the initiative to ensure that the development of the amount of illegal dumped waste in the North Sea is monitored and quantified and reported back to the Storting which other measures the Government will take to put an end to the supply of the North Sea.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e2060	During the debate, Mr Hansen tabled a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals on the racial hazard in Norway with measures to improve the understanding of social risks, with proposals for measures to prevent the loss of human lives and values. In the same context, the link between racial hazard and depopulation and the socio-economic costs of knowledge ageing resulting from racial hazards must be identified. It is also necessary to propose improved dietary/benefit analysis methods for the selection of measures, which take better account of local risk and damage, mental insecurity and rural considerations in the calculations.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e2085	During the debate Hallgeir H. Langeland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the establishment of an independent public body to assess whether the MOX work on the Halden reactor is exclusively safety-related and whether it contributes, directly or indirectly, to an increase in the reprocessing of plutonium.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e2110	During the debate, Heidi Sørensen has tabled five proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposals are as follows: ‘1. The government is asking the government to develop a national strategy for the development of a global solar industry, with Norwegian industry as a leading player.2. The size asks the Government to propose as a national target the installation of solar panels of at least 10000 ceilings and of 100000 m2 of large building façades.3. [[small commercial buildings and dwellings]] The Government is asked to take the initiative to establish a national solar demonstration plant in Norway. The new opera building in Bjørvika is a current site for such a facility.4. The Government asks the Government to amend the Norwegian aid guidelines so that priority is given to solar energy, at least in line with other forms of energy where Norway has special competence.5. The Government is asked to take the initiative to set up a separate group of countries that are conducting open tenders in aid contracts.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e2163	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Asmund Kristoffersen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 11 November 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to assume the former county responsibility of the health establishments within the drug field [[Rusreform II]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e2178	There'll be some hands in the weather. This indicates that someone has voted incorrectly. So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e2193	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Asmund Kristoffersen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 11 November 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Rusreform I and Rusreform II are evaluated after 2 years. The evaluation shall be submitted to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e2211	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Asmund Kristoffersen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 11 November 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that user rights are a central part of the simplification and harmonisation of municipal health and social legislation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e2217	President - Explanation of vote!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e2224	Mr Höie will have the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e2227	I would recommend that the parties to the Government vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e2232	The right has then signaled that they will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e2250	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Asmund Kristoffersen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 11 November 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess whether it would be appropriate to legislate its own permanent application teams in the municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25.ana.ud1622e2268	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Asmund Kristoffersen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 11 November 2003: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with an assessment of the law on the continuity of treatment for drug users.’
