ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e49	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e63	The world economy is marked by uncertainty and decline. Central countries are struggling badly financially. In Norway, too, there are signs of reduced economic growth and increasing unemployment in competitive industries. I therefore fully support the opinion of the G-8 countries of the Evian meeting on 1 and 2 June, stressing the importance of the contribution of the multilateral trading system to growth, stability and sustainable development. A binding multilateral trading system is the best instrument against arbitraryity, protectionism and the right of the strongest. Perhaps the main reason why Norway and the vast majority of countries today are either WTO members or are seeking to become WTO members is that the legislation protects against discrimination. At the same time, a dispute resolution system is in place to ensure compliance. Through the WTO, countries commit themselves to giving equal access to goods and services, regardless of the Member State from which they come. Another important reason is the predictability of the rules by establishing the framework for customs duties and other trade regulatory measures. This means that the authorities of the Member States and individual exporters know what awaits them in the different markets and can then plan. This is not least important for a small country such as Norway, with an open, export-oriented economy. In addition, we're outside the big trading blocs. Although negotiations in the WTO are not always optimal with Norwegian eyes, there is no current issue for Norway to withdraw from the WTO. Disfellowshipping will in practice mean that we waive the right to protection against discrimination and will result in Norwegian goods and services being excluded from important export markets. Of course, the WTO system will survive independently of what Norway is doing, and the majority of the world’s nations will continue to benefit from the protection provided by the legislation. The only realistic option we have is to work actively within the WTO to help optimise the framework conditions for Norway and Norwegian enterprises. Today's multilateral trading system is based on the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, abbreviated by GATT, which was concluded in 1947. The World Trade Organisation, the WTO, was established in 1995 on the basis of the old GATT, and today has 146 members. The vast majority of its members are developing countries. In addition, more than 30 countries are negotiating membership. Seven rounds of GATT and WTO negotiations over the years have contributed to a significant reduction of barriers to trade between developed countries. However, one important exception is agriculture. During the last round of negotiations — the so-called Uruguay Round — the liberalisation of agricultural trade as desired by the main exporting countries did not take place. An important part of the compromise then reached was the commitment of the parties to continue the process. The current agricultural negotiations have thus been in preparation since the end of the Uruguay Round. As you know, the starting point for the round of negotiations is the decisions taken at the Doha Ministerial Conference in Qatar in 2001. Apart from agriculture, the negotiations cover trade in services, market access for industrial products, including fish and fish products, anti-dumping and subsidies, trade and the environment and some aspects of the intellectual property agreement, the so-called TRIPS Agreement. Since most WTO members are developing countries, the interest of developing countries was very important in getting the mandate for the Doha negotiations in place. The most central area for these countries is undoubtedly improved market access for the goods they are able to export. Here, agriculture remains central. In addition, it was decided to negotiate how the specific needs of developing countries can be better addressed in the various parts of WTO legislation. This is why the negotiations are under the name of the development round, or the Doha Development Agenda. The importance of developing countries is also emphasised by the Government, as I have explained earlier to the Stortinget. The government's balances and priorities in the further negotiations are based on an overall assessment of our offensive and defensive interests. In this context, we need to emphasise the long-term importance of the trading system for stability, economic growth and prosperity. This is something we can't throw at the boat, even if we don't get an impact on all of our views and demands, for example. in the field of agriculture, where it is characterised by solutions which may become difficult for Norway. The Doha Round is scheduled to end by the end of 2004. So we're approaching half the race. Several key issues should have already been clarified this spring, including reductions in the protection and support of agriculture. But the time frames have broken down. Nor were the deadlines for the requirements imposed by developing countries on changes to existing legislation complied with when they expired in 2002. In addition, reduction obligations are still in place for industrial products, including fish and fish products, and for changes to the dispute resolution agreement. In the service negotiations, the opening offers from the members were to be on the table on 31 March. As a result, the fifth WTO Ministerial Conference in Cancún, Mexico, from 10 to 14 September, will become more important and comprehensive than originally foreseen. Central and difficult decisions will now have to be taken there. One of the most difficult areas to reach agreement is agriculture. The WTO negotiators have put forward a proposal on concrete tariff reductions and cuts in agricultural aid. The proposal is met with criticism from several teams. Many agricultural exporting countries, including The United States, Australia and a number of developing countries, believe it's too little ambitious. Norway and our counterparts are of the opinion that the proposal provides too little flexibility to maintain a viable agricultural sector where important non-commercial functions can also be performed. Some developing countries are most concerned with protecting their own markets. The group of least developed countries was most satisfied, which saw the proposal as a good basis for further negotiations. I will not go further into the details of the positions of Norwegian and other countries and the details of the negotiator's proposal, as this was thoroughly highlighted during the interpellation debate in Stortinget on 28 March this year. Of course, the government will continue to work to get an impact on Norway’s vision. However, I do not want to underestimate the fact that our interests on the agricultural side are on a collision course with the demands for increased market access from the majority of WTO members. We must therefore be prepared for a result that could have a significant impact on Norwegian agriculture when the negotiations are over and the outcome will be put to work in a few years' time. On the other hand, it is important that we do not lose sight of the fact that Norway has strong offensive interests in a number of areas that are now being negotiated, including the services sector, where maritime transport, energy services and telecommunications are at the centre. Sales of services account for a significant proportion of Norwegian exports, for 2002 export revenues were NOK 156 billion, i.e. approx. 25 pst. of the total exports. It is therefore an important task for the Government in the ongoing negotiations to ensure improved market access for our export companies. The WTO service negotiations are conducted in a two-phase process. First, bilateral consultations are held in which countries make demands and counterclaims to each other. This phase ended on 30 June last year. The results of these consultations form the basis for the next phase: the presentation of offers from individual countries that form the basis for the formal negotiations. The deadline for the submission of offers was 31 March of this year. Per. Today, Norway and almost 40 other Member States have made offers. Among these are the United States, Japan, the European Commission on behalf of the 15 EU Member States and a dozen developing countries. The opening offers that are presented are what I would call cautious. Firstly, they mainly aim at formalising current practices in different service areas. Secondly, important areas in the energy sector have been excluded. The Norwegian offer goes beyond most, by offering to legislate on a significantly larger proportion of current practices for individual service sectors. We hope this can help us to have a regulatory framework that strengthens the competitiveness of Norwegian service industries. Market access for industrial products, including fish and fish products, is also an area where Norway has clearly offensive interests. This is particularly true for fish and other seafood, where customs duties in some countries are still high. Norway, together with the United States and New Zealand, has taken the initiative to set a final deadline for the closure of all industrial tariffs in this round of negotiations. Here, however, as in a number of other areas, industrialised countries are far from being in agreement. The U-country group is also divided. A number of Latin American and Asian countries see the negotiations as an opportunity for improved market access. On the other hand, India and most African countries, who wish to protect their own markets for industrial products, are on their agendas higher than the possibilities of exporting. On 16 May, the WTO negotiator presented a proposal for reduction obligations which generally cut more in industrialised countries than in developing countries' customs duties. How much is to be cut, it is to be negotiated further. This is combined with proposals for the phasing-out of customs duties for seven sectors of particular importance for developing countries, including textiles and fish. The least developed countries are proposed to exempt from the reduction obligations. Not unexpectedly, most Member States focus at this stage in the negotiations on the parts of the proposal they are dissatisfied with. The U.S. believes that the reductions do not go far enough. Japan is taking a great deal of distance from the proposal on the free movement of fish and fish products. In addition, there is little enthusiasm among developing countries for the proposal on the freedom of customs duties for individual sectors, as they realise that in the longer term this will also have to apply to their markets. For Norway and other countries with significant export interests in the markets of developed countries, the proposal has been welcomed. Further, an area that is very important to Norway is anti-dumping. It is not a big secret that the anti-dumping legislation is being misused to target imports that can compete with national products. Therefore, the Government wants to prevent Norwegian companies from subjecting themselves to this type of measure. This is a very controversial area, especially for the United States. The reason is that the US anti-dumping legislation provides considerable leeway to protect the low-competitive national industry. A majority of the panel cases raised in the WTO, both by developed countries and by developing countries, have been anti-measures under US anti-dumping legislation. The fact that the United States has largely lost these cases shows that there is a need to do something about the legislation. We are therefore working from Norway to make anti-dumping legislation less discretionary, to have clear rules for the implementation and closure of measures. An improvement in this area must also be seen in the context of market access negotiations. Without results in the area of anti-dumping, improved market access could easily be undermined by protectionist measures. Another issue of importance for Norway is fishing subsidies. Negotiations on this were put on the agenda of Iceland, the United States, New Zealand and a number of Latin American and Asian countries. It is therefore gratifying that the EU has finally agreed on a common position to deal with subsidies that lead to overcapacity in the fishing fleet. Japan and Korea will thus be quite isolated in opposing this. The mandate for negotiations in the field of the environment is to assess the relationship between current WTO rules and specific trade obligations in multilateral environmental agreements. So far, discussions have mainly focused on how this work is to be done. From the Norwegian side, we are working to ensure equivalence between WTO legislation and multilateral environmental agreements. Because the Doha mandate is very limited in this area, it is unlikely that any significant changes will be made. With regard to the negotiations on changes to the dispute resolution agreement, the objective is to clarify the provisions and to correct accidental errors and deficiencies. The possibility of agreeing a sub-agreement on this in Cancún is absolutely present. As the name Doha Development Agenda refers to, the special needs and problems of developing countries must be the focus of the negotiations. Market access for goods and services for developing countries is particularly important. The same will be true of strengthening the provisions providing for positive treatment for developing countries. In practice, developing countries have benefited little from today’s regulations, as they are not binding. Follow-up to the Doha Declaration on the TRIPS Agreement and Public Health, i.e. unfortunately, the end has not yet been completed for developing countries without their own production capacity to import patented medicinal products at low prices. The main object of the disagreement is to restrict the diseases to be covered by the scheme and the countries in which it should be used. The United States, as the only country so far, has not been able to accept a proposal submitted last December, following a comprehensive negotiation process. This is an important issue for the poorest developing countries, and Norway has worked actively to contribute to a solution. Issues related to investment, competition policy, simplification of trade procedures and transparency in public procurement threatened to overturn the Doha Ministerial Conference. The main reason was that the tone-setting developing countries opposed the overall need to negotiate a multilateral regulatory framework in these areas. It was finally agreed that it would be negotiated. However, how the negotiations were to be conducted was exposed to the forthcoming Cancún Ministerial Conference. These questions may again prove to be difficult. It is clear from what I have said that there are still a number of issues that need to be resolved against the Cancún Ministerial Conference. Hopefully, for the next two to three months, we will be able to lay the groundwork for decisions on reduction obligations for both agriculture and industrial products in Cancún and agree on important changes to the dispute resolution mechanisms. The many consultations and discussions I have had with representatives of different countries and groups leave a certain impression of political will to reach the necessary compromises, so that agreement can be reached in Cancún. The government has placed considerable emphasis on cooperation and alliance building in different areas of negotiation in order to maximise the impact for Norwegian interests. Of course, we will also do that in the further negotiations. It is vital that we do not allow this opportunity to go away to help the WTO continue its central role in trade policy. A stable and predictable framework for world trade is essential in order to ensure economic growth and prosperity development. It's too early to say anything more concrete about what balances the government will have to make towards Cancún. Hopefully the situation will be clearer by the end of July. However, the Ministerial Conference will take place before the Stortinget meets in the autumn and, if necessary, the Government intends to consult the bodies of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e160	The President proposed that the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs be made out and brought to the attention of the meeting on 17 June. No one has objected, and the President's proposal has been unanimously adopted. At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that matters be dealt with as follows: 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e187	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for the speeches of the main speakers of each Party Group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and that the speaking time for the rest be set at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group, and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e194	20 years after we were last member of the UN Security Council, Norway resumed its seat as one of 15 Member States on 1 January 2001. Since 1980, there has been a significant increase in the number of cases and the number of meetings of the Security Council. It gives a good illustration that Norway took the word for about two years. 1 100 times in formal meetings of the Security Council itself. In addition, the innumerable informal meetings of different subcommittees and a number of written submissions will be held. It has therefore undoubtedly been a very demanding task for Norwegian foreign service to fulfil the responsibility of such a position. This is precisely why it was important that Norway launch a comprehensive campaign to become a member of the Security Council again. One of the pillars of our foreign policy is to work for an international society based on the UN Charter, international law and binding intergovernmental cooperation. We're going to use resources to give the UN weight in the international community. So the question of how Norway has managed its membership has contributed to giving the UN weight. The answer to that – from an almost collective committee – is yes. In particular, there has been a correlation between the type of work and the profile of Norway. The importance of consensus-oriented work with the aim of finding coherent solutions in the United Nations context cannot be stressed sufficiently: it is only when the United Nations is able to work together, that the United Nations can play an important and relevant role. The adoption of several important resolutions serves as examples of the ability and willingness of the UN Security Council to find compromises. The resolution ensuring the extension of the mandate of the United Nations operation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is one such example. Another is clearly the resolutions on the Middle East adopted during the period of Norway’s presidency in March 2002. Then there is also an overall committee that highlights the efforts that were made by the Norwegian side and that contributed to the decision of, among other things, Resolution 1397: the resolution is the first ever to mention the vision of a Palestinian state. It is unnecessary to clarify the importance it will have for the further peace efforts in the Middle East. The centre party, but especially SV, is critical to what they think has been a low profile on the part of Norway. For example, SV believes that we should have raised the issue of sanctions against Israel, even if it was not realistic for this to be adopted. But probably our profile just helped to produce results in the form of unanimous resolutions, which must be more important than marking the Norwegian flag. There has been no greater emphasis on our work in the Security Council than on the Iraq conflict. Norway invested a lot of resources in our leadership of the Sanctions Committee for Iraq, and also gained recognition for this work. In particular, there is reason to point out that we contributed to the conversion of sanctions policies that have improved the humanitarian situation of the civilian population, while at the same time strengthening the control of Iraq's access to military-use product types. Over all years, Norway has supported the UN's binding demand for Iraq to abolish weapons of mass destruction. Norway’s position, with broad support in the United Kingdom, has been that disarmament through the use of military power must only take place ultimately — once all attempts by peaceful means have been exhausted. Resolution 1441, adopted in November 2002, emphatically stated that lack of cooperation with the weapons inspectors would still constitute a substantial breach of the current resolutions and warned Iraq against serious consequences thereof. The fact that the weapons inspectors were again able to take up their work in Iraq was undoubtedly related to the military pressure on the regime with which Resolution 1441 was accompanied. It is regrettable that the so-called UN track did not get all the way forward. It was only a united UN that could ensure a peaceful solution to the Iraq conflict. The doubt that was subsequently sown about the will of world society to put power behind the demands of Saddam Hussein, weakened the UN, and it weakened the weapons inspections. It meant Kofi Annan, Hans Blix and Blix’s predecessors, former Swedish UN ambassador Rolf Ekéus, who said to the evening post: ‘If the pressure decreases due to political disagreement over the Atlantic, I think the risk is increasing for a more difficult policy on the part of Iraq, not keeping its passive line, but actively holding back its little secrets’. The best thing for peace was to keep the pressure on Iraq up, said Ekéus. The imperative of power now is to secure the position of the United Nations in the further work in Iraq. As you know, Norway has committed a total of 410 million. kr. for humanitarian relief measures. The adoption of UN Resolution 1483 on 22 May is a welcome expression of the willingness of the Security Council to look ahead and to provide an important basis for Norway's further participation. The Security Council is an important venue for focusing on the broad link between peace and development. The government has had this perspective as a primary priority in the work of the Security Council. Not least, such a broad approach is important in the fight against international terrorism. The efforts to stabilise and repatriate Afghanistan are perhaps the clearest example of Norway’s main priorities in the UN Security Council being most relevant. It is therefore important for Norway to work towards ensuring a leading role for the UN in the global work on anti-terrorism. Africa was also one of Norway's three main priorities for the work of the Security Council, and African conflicts have made up almost two thirds of the issues on the agenda of the Council. In particular, the Committee has highlighted Norway's efforts in relation to the conflicts on the Horn of Africa, where we have had a leadership responsibility for both the Ethiopian-Eritrea conflict and the conflict in Somalia. The Committee endorses the Government's plans for the continuation of efforts to support the peace processes in these three countries. The entire Committee also highlights the importance of our participation in international operations. Here, too, Norway’s efforts to strengthen the UN’s ability to carry out peace operations will be important – not only can you look at the number of officers with blue hats that are Norwegian. There is no doubt that more people are asking fundamental questions about the ability of the UN Security Council to deal with international peace and security after the Iraq crisis than before. We are facing other types of threats today than when the UN Pact was signed. The UN Charter prohibits the use of force against other countries, but does not prohibit regimes from oppressing their own people. Terrorist networks do not have a nation-state, but are equally a serious threat to democratic countries and to human dignity. The international order established after World War II does not correspond to the international order we see in 2003. We therefore need to engage ourselves and others in a fundamental debate on the role of the United Nations. At the same time, however, we should not underestimate the power of the practical work being done on a daily basis under the auspices of the United Nations. It is also through the power of the example that we can show the Member States that it is necessary to restore and strengthen the role and position of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e242	We're dealing with two things at a time. One is the announcement of Norway’s participation in the 57th General Assembly of the United Nations, and the other is the notification of Norway’s participation in the UN Security Council for the period 2001–2002. One message is a review of the General Assembly and the main issues on the agenda there. The Committee's position is unanimous, and I therefore find no reason to address the specific issues in detail. The Committee first notes that major global challenges call for the strengthening of global governance tools. Strong multilateral cooperation under the auspices of the United Nations, but also other international institutions, is absolutely necessary to address the challenges we face in today's globalised world. The most important thing we can do internationally now is work on measures that can strengthen the UN. If the UN is to ensure both peace and development in a more effective way, it must have better opportunities for its work. The Secretary-General’s proposal for new reform measures was also one of the major issues at the General Assembly. The main objective of the reform package is to improve the ability of the UN to follow up the Millennium Action Plans. It is important to maintain political pressure on the reform work of the UN. This also applies to the Security Council, which one must decide sooner or later on a reform. It brings me to the second big message we have for treatment, which deals with Norway's membership of the UN Security Council. Two governments took part in the work of appointing Norway to the Security Council for the two-year period 2001–2002 and did so. Membership of the UN Security Council is a responsible task. The majority of the Committee points out that Norway managed this responsibility in a good way. Now that the membership period is over, it is important that Norway is able to actively continue the experience and knowledge that membership has given us, in our foreign policy commitment. One of the three priority objectives for Norway’s membership of the Council was specifically focused on issues relating to peace and security in Africa. Conflicts in Africa have been two thirds of the issues on the agenda of the Security Council during the period of Norway’s membership. And we must not forget Africa! We all remember the genocide that took place in Rwanda in 1994, while powerless UN soldiers stood and watched. We four from the Foreign Affairs Committee, which was in Rwanda a year and a half ago, got close to the genocide and strong experiences in meeting people who had experienced it. There's an impression that we'll never forget. We felt distrust of the UN because the UN did not stop the cruel genocide. But we also experienced confidence in the UN's reconciliation work and efforts to improve the situation of the victims and the victims' survivors, under the auspices of UNDP. What we want is a UN that takes responsibility and so early that such abuses can be prevented. What happened in Rwanda must not happen again. The UN has now appealed to the Member States to contribute to the forces of the civil war-torn Democratic Republic of Congo. The Labour Party strongly believes that we need to do everything possible to identify personnel who can contribute to this operation, because if not, Norway’s credibility as a strong supporter of the UN could be weakened. A decision to send forces into such a dangerous conflict area requires a careful analysis of the situation in advance. The Labour Party believes that the Government should carry out such an analysis and assess what we have of personnel, what it needs, and what we can contribute to. This should be agreed in the Stortinget, given that there is a unanimous committee that indicates that participation in international peace operations has long traditions as an important part of Norwegian foreign policy. The Committee underlines the importance of continued Norwegian participation in UN peace operations or UN mandate operations. This is a strong signal from the Storting to the Government. The Committee considers it important that Norway appears to be a stable and credible contributor to such operations. The Committee is of the opinion that broad participation in peace-keeping operations is important and that it also includes participation in addition to Norway’s neighbourhoods. Possible contributions need to be assessed on the basis of both military and political considerations. In other words, purely military strategic considerations cannot be taken into account alone when assessing strength contributions in Norway. The importance of Norwegian contributions to peacekeeping operations in Africa was underlined both in the budgetary position of the Defence Committee and in the budgetary position of the Foreign Affairs Committee to the 2003 budget. Today we have heard that the UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, has called for a peacekeeping force in the Middle East. He doesn't think the Palestinians and the Israelis can make it on their own. Therefore, a peacekeeping force can help calm down the situation and make it possible to continue the negotiations. We have for a long time been addressing the need for an international presence in the Middle East, and we therefore wish to welcome such an initiative by the United Nations. If such a strength is put in place, we expect the Government to seriously assess whether Norway can participate in such a strength. Norwegian participation in such UN operations is important primarily for the sake of the individual conflict and the people affected, but it is also important because it strengthens Norway's credibility in the UN, as well as Norwegian reputation and trust in poor countries in general. Having said that, I would like to say that it is important that there is no contradiction between United Nations operations and UN mandate operations. KFOR/SFOR are examples of forces that contribute to the fulfilment of UN decisions. In the wake of the draft battle we witnessed in the Security Council in the context of the Iraq conflict, there have been many statements that the UN position is now weakened or that the UN has become a tool used only when it serves the interests of the big countries. In my opinion, it is not possible to say anything for certain whether the UN is weakened or not. It's too early to say anything about it. What we can say with certainty is that today's situation internationally, with terrorist threats, poverty, HIV/AIDS, SARS and a number of regional conflicts, shows that we may be more than ever dependent on strong multilateral cooperation. We are dependent on a strong and well-functioning UN. But the UN is no more than what the Member States do. It is therefore essential that political will be demonstrated in the context of strengthening the organisation and making it better able to ensure both peace and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e274	The UN Security Council is an important instrument for ensuring peace and security on behalf of all UN member states. This places particular responsibility both on the elected members and on the five permanent members who, in practice, shape the work of the Council. However, both the responsibility for the activities and the decisions taken by the Council are equally shared between the 15 members. No matter what happened, Norway's work in the Security Council was more marked than Iraq. Participation in international peace operations has long traditions and is an important part of Norwegian foreign policy. It is therefore important that Norway participates in peace operations under the auspices of the United Nations or in operations under the United Nations mandate. Norway must also appear as a stable and credible contributor to such operations. The Progress Party, like the rest of the Committee, believes that broad participation in peace-keeping operations is important and that it also includes participation beyond Norway’s neighbourhoods. It is important that possible contributions should be assessed on the basis of both military and political considerations. Norway's interests are best served by an effective and norm-setting UN. It is therefore important that issues relevant to international peace and security be addressed by the Security Council. Decisions must be based on the United Nations Charter and applicable international law. It is very important that one does not rock this system, because some countries are outside the collective security system resulting from the UN Charter. International terrorism and the proliferation of weapons that threaten humanity pose a major threat to international peace and security. This recognition has brought together an overwhelming majority of countries in the world in the fight against the forces that seek to hit the basic values of society and that undermine human dignity and democratic social norms. Norway has made a strong commitment to the Security Council to combat international terrorism and to all aspects of international peace building and reconciliation, and we are pleased about that. Norway’s participation in the UN Security Council in 2001 and 2002 has been an important and demanding task for the two governments responsible for the period. Norway’s participation must be characterised as a success. Norway was able to raise its own issues and priorities, while helping to bring together the Security Council on the basis of important decisions and decisions. This shows that Norway was well prepared for the great responsibility of membership and that the main priorities underlying membership were relevant. The effort Norway put down in the presidency, contributed to progress in a number of cases. Resolution 1397 on the Middle East was adopted in the Norwegian presidency period, and this resolution confirms for the first time the vision of a Palestinian state. The experience gained during the presidency underlines the importance of a consensus-based approach in the Security Council, where efforts are directed towards finding common solutions. Such an approach strengthens the position of the United Nations in the international community. The Progress Party notes that the Government’s priorities for the work of the Security Council have always had broad support in the Storting and believes that the experience and knowledge acquired by Norway in the Security Council must be actively used in our further foreign policy commitment. The long-standing conflict between the United Nations and Iraq was the most difficult issue in Norway's membership period. The Progress Party believes that it was right for Norway to support Resolution 1441, which confirmed and reinforced the United Nations' long and binding demands against Iraq. Resolution 1441 stated that violations of the resolution would have serious consequences for Iraq. The Progress Party believes that the Government's position on the question of the use of armed power if Iraq failed to fulfil its obligations could have been clearer, as we believe Resolution 1441 took the necessary account of the fact that decisions and actions were to be rooted in the UN Charter and in current international law. It is regrettable that France and Germany chose to sit on the sidelines, when our main allies, the United States and England, with the background of Resolution 1441, chose to go to action against Iraq after many years of sanctions had not taken place. The further handling of Iraq by the international community will have a major impact on the role and position of the United Nations and the Security Council. Work to improve and improve the effectiveness of the UN sanctions policy needs to be continued. Although the objective is more accurate, ‘smart’ sanctions with effect against regimes cannot be ignored, power must also be used where a regime terrorises or affects the daily needs of the civilian population. The Progress Party is pleased with the Government's strong commitment to the Security Council's efforts to combat international terrorism. In this context, there is reason to stress the importance of the overall approach Norway has taken to heart its commitment to Afghanistan, focusing on the link between military intervention, emergency aid, long-term development aid and peace and reconciliation efforts. This approach must also underpin the further fight against international terrorism. Conflicts in Africa have accounted for almost two thirds of the issues on the Council's agenda, and the Progress Party considers Norway's priority of conflict on the Horn of Africa to be important. That is why we support a further commitment to conflict areas in Africa. It is important to continue work to strengthen the UN's capacity in international conflict management, and the relationship between military and civil actors in peace operations should be a Norwegian area of activity. The Norwegian commitment to the development of international criminal law is important, but we are not satisfied that, under unworthy conditions – which were also mentioned in the previous speeches – more than 100 000 are in Rwandan prisons after the genocide in 1994, which have not yet been brought to justice. Here, too, the Security Council has a responsibility, which took part in the operation of the established criminal courts. It is also important to continue the work of gaining global recognition of the International Criminal Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e308	It's a pleasure when we're now going to sum up the work of the United Nations and the Security Council, that it's very positive to say about the government's work. Not least, it is gratifying that the United Nations stood by him and did not be pressured into punishing a war against Iraq. Many have claimed that the war would come anyway, so it didn't matter, and that this made the United Nations uninteresting as international conflict resolution and barrier. That may be possible, but in the long run, I'm going to say that at least we achieved that international law's ban on the use of power was not exhausted. Even though we from SV's point of view have ended up with the plural notes in the setting, we would probably have wished the government had been even clearer and asked more questions about whether it was correct for Norway to keep such a low profile in more difficult cases. We recognise the good and good work that was done, but it could have been a little bit more of a pipe in it, not least to the Middle East and the handling of Iraq. The Security Council is a decision-making body, and Norway should have shown the ability to pursue a more independent policy, especially when it comes to making clear the resolution of the harmful aspects of the sanctions against Iraq and of a stronger international commitment to support the Palestinians. We know that Saddam boycotta is oil for the food program. The civilian population in Iraq had no opportunity to boycott it, but they were the ones who rented the most. When it concerns oil for the food programme, we know that the contracts were made so that one would agree the price after the trade was finished and the contracts were on the table. Then it's hard to get such an oil trade going. Saddam had his ways of getting money, so he didn't rent out this. It is clear that it is a challenge to get smarter sanctions and make them work. This is a challenge in all conflicts. We could also use the Security Council place to challenge the United States to contribute more strongly to a holistic solution to the Middle East conflict. Twice we voted in favour of resolutions on the deployment of international observers in the Middle East – and we only talk about observers. Although in these cases the United States vetoed, it would be important, in SV's opinion, for Norway to flag. Norway should bring sanctions against Israel, even if it was not realistic for this to be agreed. But at least we'd kind of have two flags, and we'd have marked ourselves. It undermines the Security Council's authority that Israel breaks UN resolutions without any consequences, and of course it's a central part of finding solutions in the Middle East. During the debate on Iraq in 2002, Norway held a reasonable low profile. We could already interpret by President Bush's speech to the September General Assembly that the United States had plans to go to war independently of the United Nations. Norway could also then, in the Security Council, both smarter and at an earlier stage, resist the US's war plans, not least in order to defend international law's best interests. This is not something we in SV think about irritating the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but this is part of the political debate in the United States as well. And to give a little picture of that debate, I would quote John F. Kennedy's old speechwriter, Theodore Sorensen, quoted in the newspaper yesterday with the following words: ‘Our doctrine of pre-emption attacks without legal justification or evidence is music for terrorist organisations that are currently engaged in such attacks.’ When we later saw what kind of scotch of evidence was presented to the Security Council by Foreign Minister Colin Powell, this is serious. It's kind of a disgrace to the Security Council, the UN and the international community, when you present evidence that might look like they were produced, and at least not to date have some real goals. The only safe thing we can say about weapons of mass destruction in Iraq so far is that up to 95 pst. they were removed by the United Nations in 1998. So far, that's the only sure thing we know. We also know that in the United Kingdom there is a big debate going on where Blair gets a lot of it for his use of evidence. I'm not going to go into detail, but we know that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has gone off, and there's a big debate in the United Kingdom about one at a time has kept within what we can call a decent way of providing evidence on an international scale. The government must be very commended for the emphasis being placed on the conflicts in Africa and on strengthening the UN peacekeeping forces during the membership period. We should have followed the objective in this area by putting more emphasis on Norway's concrete efforts, and the representative Eyeågen was earlier concerned with this with the Congo. The government cut to the end of the period in Norway’s peace efforts in Africa to finance the efforts in Afghanistan. The ratio that we per. Today only has approx. 40 people in the UN service, giving cause for great concern. It might seem like there's a line break at the same time. In 1995, we had 1,500–1,600 people with blue helmets around the world, today it's barely 40. On the one hand, we say that the UN is important, but it can't be seen from the colour of the helmets of Norwegian soldiers in the service. Nor should we forget that this has a major impact on opinion at home. The fact that there was a lieutenant in a small town, that someone works in a police station, and that there are people around Norway who have actually been out in the peacekeeping service and have field experience also helps to form an image outside among ordinary people in Norway of how these conflicts and wars occur. This isn't just for us here at Stortinget, but there are people in different professions, not least soldiers and policemen, who have had good experience in the field. That is why we should be so active in relation to the UN service. Lebanon is the best example. The Norwegian opinion turned in that conflict, because Norwegian soldiers, Norwegian service men and women were out and saw how bad the conflict was and the occupation was. Therefore, SV has a note in connection with the revision that we, as Sweden, should send strength to a temporary international stabilisation force in East Congo. This line shift can also be interpreted as one is more willing to contribute with soldiers where the United States is leading its wars than to contribute where the need is greater. Now I have not doubted the whole purpose of the Government and what both diplomatic and political efforts have been made, but the follow-up to concrete strength contributions is not exactly where it should be. We also know that there is no need for Norwegian soldiers in Iraq for mine clearance. One can rather give the money to Norwegian People's Aid. They're much more effective. Let's now learn from the aid staff, who say that sending Norwegian experts with high wages is not necessarily good help. If you give the money to private and voluntary people, you actually get a much more efficient mine clearance, because the Norwegian People's Aid and other voluntary organizations like that do, are educating people, so that a person gets mining capacity in Iraq in the long term. It's much more important than having 60, 70, 100 Norwegian men who cost a lot. Now let's learn a little bit from the assistance in this area. In the comment in the revised national budget, we ask the Government to make concrete proposals, which the eye was also about. I think the foreign minister might be able to comment on it a little bit. After all, Sweden is involved in an EU effort, and the EU's aim is simply to prevent violations against civilians, to improve the humanitarian situation and, not least, to provide support to the UN when it comes to the peace process in the Congo, and it would be quite clear that it is in the middle of the Norwegian policy orientation. We're going to be able to have money for this. So a little bit in relation to the UN and the General Assembly. I would also ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to comment a little on what is so much problematic in the message, this with the thousand-year-olds, the reform work, which the eye was also involved in, this with the ICC, the news that France, Germany and Syria have not been able to vote in relation to whether the United States is still allowed to retain their immunity. So if the debate is going to be as topical as possible, I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to comment on some of these issues, as well as that one from the United States is now trying to influence Belgium in terms of changing its legislation. So, we're going to build a new NATO building – it might be part of the next debate – and therefore a strong Belgian influence to change its national legislation. But this is also home to the UN debate, for this, with respect for international law and law, is perhaps the biggest challenge in terms of security policy for a small country such as Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e339	Norwegian foreign policy has always supported the primary responsibility of the UN Security Council for the maintenance of international peace and security. The UN is one of the pillars of our foreign and security policy and the foremost organisation in the work of international peace and security. Therefore, the Christian People's Party wants Norway to work within the UN as we seek solutions in international conflicts, and to actively step in to strengthen the UN as an organisation. When we put such emphasis on the work of the United Nations, it was important for Norway to have the opportunity to participate in the Security Council. We therefore worked intensively to give Norway a place in the Council. The starting point was that we wanted the Security Council to focus more on long-term work in conflict areas, not just on policy crisis management of current events. Norway therefore had three main areas where we wanted longer-term work. It dealt with the underlying causes of war and conflict, the focus on Africa’s challenges and the UN’s ability to plan and carry out peace operations. So what did we achieve with our work in the Security Council? Norway has been recognised for our focus and our efforts towards Africa in the Security Council. Given that nearly 15 million have been killed in just five war-torn countries in Africa in recent years, this focus appears to be correct. Conflicts in Africa have also accounted for almost two thirds of the issues on the agenda of the Council, in particular those on the Horn of Africa, in West Africa and in and around the Congo. From the very beginning of the primary responsibility for the preparatory examination of opinions and decisions for the Horn of Africa, Norway was given. We had a leadership responsibility for both the Ethiopia-Eritrea conflict and the Somalia conflict. In January 2001, we actively helped to prevent the early lifting of the arms embargo against Ethiopia and Eritrea, among other things. The United States was for. We led missionary teams to Ethiopia and Eritrea, and led the work of a presidential opinion in the Council with the aim of obliging both Ethiopia and Eritrea to accept the decision of the UN-appointed Border Commission. The Foreign Minister himself was in Ethiopia and Eritrea to support the peace process. Although we no longer participate in the Security Council, the Horn of Africa will still be a main field of action for Norwegian foreign policy. In the case of peacekeeping operations, Norway was given the leadership of the Council Working Party on Peacekeeping Operations. This was in line with the priorities set by the Government for the work of the Security Council. There has been a trend in recent years towards non-compliance and participation in UN forces from western industrialized countries. The Norwegian presence in UN-led peace operations has also been reduced in recent years to the benefit of NATO and international coalitions. The Christian People's Party will strongly maintain the importance of Norway participating in UN-led operations. There doesn't have to be any contradiction to participate in NATO or other coalitions, as long as one maintains that we want a strong UN. The contribution of several international and multinational actors can strengthen the stability and security of an area, but it should not be at the expense of our UN exposure. Norway has long traditions of participation in international peace operations. The Christian People's Party wants Norway to continue to participate in such operations under the UN or under UN mandate. I am therefore pleased that the Government has promised to continue a Norwegian active effort to strengthen the United Nations' ability to plan and carry out peace operations. The UN must be the best way to deal with global conflicts. The focus on the underlying causes of war and conflict was the third of our main priorities. Norway has been working to put economic forces in conflict on the agenda. Such a topical issue here was the relationship between conflict and the plundering of a country's natural resources. Unfortunately, rich natural resources are not always a guarantee of growth and development. On the contrary, the struggle for such resources is often the cause of conflict and widespread violence, and even more often the main obstacle to a peaceful solution. Illegal exploitation of natural resources such as oil, diamonds, minerals and tropical timber can generate large revenues. These revenues are often used to finance armed conflicts. During the month of the presidency, we participated in organising an international conference on this topic. We also supported sanctions against trade in diamonds from Liberia and Sierra Leone. The attention given to the focus of the Security Council on the illicit use of resources and conflict has contributed to extensive cooperation in controlling trade in radiamants, in order to ensure their trade goes through legal channels. The Christian People's Party is very pleased with the progress in this field, and hopes it will contribute to a strong weakening of the economic forces in conflicts. It is positive that the Government will continue to work on the theme and work towards the integration of the economic dimension of violent conflicts into the World Bank and UN agencies' action programmes and research programmes. In the Security Council and in the general debate, the development of international criminal law was strongly focused. On the same day that the Statute of the Permanent International Criminal Court came into force, the United States vetoed the extension of UN operations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Following negotiations, a joint resolution was reached to suspend criminal prosecution for participation in peacekeeping operations by States not part of the Rome Statutes. It is a compromise, but it ensures that the UN still has a central role in peacekeeping operations, and states that the International Criminal Court has a separate value. When Norway had the presidency in March 2002, key decisions were taken in the Security Council in view of the Middle East conflict. Norway played a very central role in this work. In our month of presidency, two important Middle East resolutions were adopted. Resolution 1397 was based on proposals from the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia, and for the first time the Arab countries were in favour of Israel's right to exist, and for the first time the United States gave its support to a Palestinian state. This was historic and gave hope to a new giver in the Middle East conflict. The United States has since become more committed, and the parties have accepted the Quartet Roadmap for peace. However, it is worrying to see the subsequent escalation of violence between Israel and the Palestinians. Norway must strongly condemn terrorist acts and suicide bombers. Such attacks do not bring the Palestinians closer to a Palestinian state. That is why the Palestinian authorities must do their utmost to prevent terrorism. At the same time, it is difficult to see that the Israeli military actions help to give Israel greater security. Many of the actions may rather provoke new actions. Norway was an active member of the Security Council. We led two out of five missions, we led the Council's working group on peacekeeping operations, and we assumed responsibility for chairing the sanctions committee for Iraq. It was a very demanding task. The Security Council agreed at the end of 2001 on a concrete reversal of the sanctions. The 57th ordinary General Assembly of the United Nations was marked by the issue of Iraq, and that was the most difficult matter in Norway's membership period. Norway consistently supported the UN's strategy for the disarmament of Iraq. Norway was present when the Security Council unanimously adopted Resolution 1441 on 8 November. This resolution showed a way to resolve the conflict, a way we called the United Nations trail. Norway hoped that Saddam Hussein would comply with the many binding demands of the United Nations imposed on the Iraqi regime so that we could have a peaceful solution to the conflict. The Iraqi regime gradually cooperated more, but only halfheartedly and counterproductively. They did not meet the requirements of Resolution 1441. Gradually, however, diplomacy, weapons inspections and increased military pressure produced greater results. Therefore, Norway went in to give weapons inspectors more time, while Iraq was given concrete requirements for disarmament within short but feasible deadlines. Both while Norway was a member of the Security Council and later we insisted that the UN had the primary responsibility, and that it was therefore the UN track to follow. It is deeply regrettable that the Security Council was unable to agree on the way forward. It is serious when the Security Council is unable to resolve tasks and compromise on threats to international peace and security. It could weaken the authority in the future. Norway was against the war. We disagreed with the military solution to the Iraq conflict, but now we need to see how we can contribute to the construction of Iraq for the benefit of the civilian population. Norway is committed to actively contributing to the development effort and has stressed that efforts should be coordinated by the United Nations. It is therefore positive that the UN Security Council unanimously decided to reinstate the programme. The UN Secretary-General has been given extended and flexible powers to use the resources of the Programme to meet the humanitarian crisis in Iraq. The United States apparently won the military war, but the United States will not win the peace alone. It is now reported that attacks against the US occupying forces are increasingly being planned. Only in the last two weeks have ten American soldiers been killed and more than 25 injured. So peace has not been won. Defense Minister Rumsfeld said this week that he thought it would take several months for the occupying forces to be able to stop the attacks. In Baghdad, government employees have not been paid since March, many go without work, and people lack money to buy food. This does not testify to a situation in which the war has won and peace has won. I think the United States better than before sees that they can't operate independently of the United Nations and the international community. Therefore, a special mission to Iraq was also decided on relatively painlessly in the Security Council. The goal is now to end the suffering of the Iraqi people. Then everyone has to work together to put an end to their suffering. In the Iraq issue, the Security Council experienced a setback, but the Council never becomes irrelevant. The UN has experienced setbacks before and come back strongly. Today, no one else can fill the role of the United Nations in an increasingly globalised world.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e367	Norway’s participation in the Security Council was an important opportunity and a demanding challenge. The task was satisfactorily solved in many areas, but in the opinion of the Centre Party, there is reason to question whether all the possibilities to influence and to set the agenda were properly used. The Security Council's agenda is naturally marked by international events that occur at all times. Norway had to deal with the urgent agenda, and it required a lot of attention and labour from the Norwegian delegation. However, prior to participation in the Security Council, Norway had identified three areas of activity, and we wanted to focus in particular on these areas. The three areas were particularly challenging in relation to Africa, strengthening UN peacekeeping operations and raising a debate on underlying causes of conflicts. Our work in the Security Council must also be measured in relation to the priorities we had set before participation. Of course, it is not difficult to admit that it can be hard for small countries to set the agenda for a period that was additionally influenced by the focus on the fight against terrorism and the dramatic situation following the attack on the World Trade Center. Nevertheless, it is the opinion of the Centre Party that Norway was not able to make enough progress on the priorities we had actually set. An honest exception is our effort on the Horn of Africa, where the Norwegian involvement was high. It is uplifting that the Government wants to focus on that work also in the future, for example. by preventing violent conflicts and by preventing the resolution of conflicts. It is also reasonable to highlight Norway’s positive efforts to put in place two Middle East resolutions, which were an important stimulus to the peace process in the region. Norway led the negotiations on Resolution 1397, which was the first to ever mention the vision of a Palestinian state. It was an important breakthrough. Regrettably, Norwegian efforts to strengthen the credibility of both Norway and the United Nations' involvement in the conflict were important. The Iraq situation naturally marked, in particular, the last time in the Norwegian period. In the opinion of the Centre Party, Norway was too passive for too long in the acute situation that arose. We did not use the possibilities we had through our place in the Security Council to influence the process and to have a clear view of the process that was going on. I must also be allowed to say that the debate in retrospect in both the United States and the United Kingdom should have been a wake-up to the debate in Norway. It is remarkable that there is no major debate also in us, that no question marks are put in Norway related to what has been seen in the debate in the United States and the United Kingdom afterwards, not least to the marketing of the conflict and the war that occurred. Norway was responsible for the sanctions committee for Iraq, where extensive work has been done. The conversion of the sanctions was a step in the right direction, but the sanctions still did not get the desired effect. With regard to our declared ambition to contribute to strengthening the UN's ability to plan and carry out peacekeeping operations, it is the view of the Central Party that Norway's profile was weak. At the beginning of the 1990s, Norway had well over 1,000 people out in UN peacekeeping operations. Today, we have a dozen Northmen with blue helmets left in the field. The total number of people in the field is 30 000. The Norwegian figures are revealing evidence that there is a long way between theory and practice in this area from the Norwegian point of view. The Central Party is committed to strengthening the UN's capacity and legitimacy in the area of peacekeeping through action. Especially in today's international situation, where the United States has chosen to act unilaterally outside the UN, it is important for countries such as Norway to do its utmost to build up under the UN, not least in the area of peacekeeping. One example is the Congo, where we have today deployed five men under UN flags, which are supposed to be withdrawn in a short time, despite the fact that the UN Secretary-General has made direct recommendations to Norway too to contribute to peacekeeping personnel in the country. The centre party is not satisfied with the fact that such a direct UN recommendation is downgraded while Norway has agreed to contribute in Iraq, in the cleanup after a war Norway was actually against. We believe that Norway is not worth saying no to the UN while we say yes to the United States, as the situation is today, where there is also a certain conflict between the United Nations and the United States. Norway should act actively as a bridge builder in international conflicts by consistently working for multilateral solutions and multilateral cooperation. I would also like to add a few comments to the development work. I think it's an overall recognition that neither bilateral nor multilateral development work works well enough. Some of the reasons must be considered to be that very many developing countries have too weak administrative systems. Administrative and organisational capacity is a fundamental prerequisite for good development. Better management of developments is essential. It concerns the construction of services and welfare services, industrial development and distribution, to mention some areas. In this field, the UN Development Programme UNDP has an important task. It has capacity building as one of its primary objectives. Norway should focus on that work and strengthen the capacity of the UNDP to work offensively on this particular challenge. The central party had hoped that Norwegian membership of the Security Council would have generated increased interest and debate in Norway on important foreign policy issues. In my opinion, only a small amount of success has been achieved. Perhaps the broad debate in the population could have been more consciously stimulated and on a broader front than it actually became. Perhaps a broader debate could have been achieved through greater transparency and involvement of, for example, the drug problem. non-governmental organisations. I also believe that the development of relations between the United Nations and the United States should have called for both greater debate and greater problematisation in the overall Norwegian foreign policy debate. Despite the fact that the Centre Party is not fully satisfied with the benefits of our participation in the Security Council, Norway has built up a very good knowledge of this field during this period, and a great deal of work has been done by many. We have to manage that knowledge further. The centre party hopes that a comprehensive strategy can be developed to make a conscious contribution to the road following the participation of the Security Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e395	The UN is always an important starting point for Norway’s foreign policy and will always be a cornerstone in it. Being able to get international solutions through cooperation and working to make international society more democratic must be one of our main roles. I think Norway has played a good role in the international arena and is ready to make a big impact on us as a small country. You've been busy putting down some sticks in terms of the important ideals, and not, as it sounds like SV would do, put flags on all the barrels that we pass. If several countries had chosen the profile Norway has chosen, we might have come further on the big problem we got on the international arena linked to Iraq. We had wanted a UN that had had much greater strength, a UN that had had the ability to obtain a majority in the Security Council behind the international arrests that were taken. The left deeply regrets that the Security Council did not have that role. Now we have to make sure that the UN and the international community go into the Iraqi society to stop the suffering of the people who live there, and to make society go up again. We have a job to do to strengthen the United Nations system after the deterioration we experienced in the split in the Iraq case, it is also important that in our work in the United Nations we not only focus on what is foremost in the media and primarily on the American agenda, and that our commitment to Iraq also does not obscure our involvement elsewhere in the world. I have just been to Sarajevo and seen how the UN locally manages to do a very important job in building a society after a cruel war. The UN is also at a stage where there is a need for reform, and the Iraq conflict has challenged the UN system in terms of both Security Council and international law. The UN must become more democratic and more decisive – at the same time. It's a challenge. Democracy is always the best form of governance, and we must also ensure that it is developed in the international arena. Then the management systems need to be developed and changed. In the short term, the reform of the Security Council is about having to include more countries and more permanent members. It'll be a good start to get to this. There seems to be a broad consensus in the Chamber that Norway’s role and efforts in the Security Council were good. It was an important period we were a member of, and I think we can be proud of the effort that was made. At least we in the Left are particularly pleased with the focus on Africa and the work that was done on the Middle East issue, which is a huge challenge to find a solution. What is important now is to take advantage of our experience and use it to strengthen the legitimacy of the United Nations and the necessary position of the United Nations in international policy. The left has a vision of a more democratic world and world order, and believes that democracy and cooperation between democratic countries are the best starting point for shaping a good and human rights-friendly foreign policy. Then I want to get into a point that SV had, which I think was very important, namely the popular commitment to the peacekeeping processes. What we saw from international popular commitment to Iraq was great – very great – and the popular commitment also had a great impact on international policy in a number of countries. It's important that there's knowledge and popular commitment around international issues. Linking popular commitment to the UN is also important. In this sense, it is important to provide observers in the various arenas that the United Nations is working on, and it is very important for the work of organisations, as Marit Arnstad mentioned. It is also important that youth representatives get into the international arenas early and see how a worker works there, in order to have the opportunity to influence international policies in a longer perspective than just what is happening from day to day in this house.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e412	First, two brief comments on the course of the debate: there is reason to recall when presenting the issue as if Norway were facing an alternative, either to participate in UN-led operations or to participate in such activities. operations under NATO leadership, that in some contexts it is simply a wrong issue. There is then a risk of excluding all the significant involvement that takes place and has taken place for a number of times in the Balkans, under the leadership of NATO, but at the explicit authorisation and request of the UN, including: from the historical point of view that it appeared that the UN was completely unable, in a given crisis situation, to resolve the problems that had to be solved in the Balkans. So it's not as simple as you draw it. So a little comment on the critical point of view that has been put forward in the position of the Central Party, which was also presented by Marit Arnstad in the debate, on the course of the Security Council prior to the Iraq war. That's what it says. ‘Norway was too passive for a long time and thus rejected the possibility to influence the process within the Security Council’. I think this is the opposite of the post-war clock, this is the absence of post-war clock! Because if there is any conclusion to that process, it is that those countries that, at a very early stage, held a very high profile and declared to the world what under no circumstances would they be on, either under the UN or under anyone else's direction, were the most effective contributors to blocking the possibility that the Security Council could reach a solution. By being very early in life and asserting very categorical positions, one can clearly achieve the influence of a process, but one achieved this time – now I am thinking in particular of Germany, and to some extent of France – to influence it in exactly the opposite direction of what was meant! So to the huge challenges that the United Nations is facing today. We used the formula "FN Track" in Norwegian debate over a long time. And it's with that expression as with any other cliché expression, that it can give you many kinds of associations. The problem with the UN as a construction is that on the one hand it is a dream, a vision that it is impossible for anyone to disagree with, about a peaceful world with an international legal system and the ability to maintain such a legal order and find compromise solutions. On the other hand, time and again in critical situations reality shows that the distance between this dream and the UN as an organisation and the ability of the United Nations to live up to the visions is dramatic. And we have to deal with both, that we confess to the ideas and visions behind the UN, and that at the same time we take note that it is very, very long before the UN as an organization is able to live up to its purpose. The UN track proved to be a blind track this time, in the sense that, like in previous international crisis situations, it turned out that at some point it stopped because the Security Council was paralyzed and was unable to carry out the task envisaged by the UN Charter by the Security Council. It's happened before. It's probably going to happen later. But at the moment, we should at least be interested in helping the UN to make a new round of its own ability to reform its own organisational structures. One of the reasons why the Security Council failed this time is that the Security Council reflects a world that no longer exists, the world as it looked right after the Second World War. It is very far from the realities of today's world. If, in the years to come, the UN is not able to update the Security Council in such a way that it starts to reflect somewhat the real power conditions in today's world, then the risk of the UN track becoming a dead end is going to increase dramatically.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e430	I would like to start by thanking you for the pleasant words that stand in the position on the Norwegian effort in the Security Council, and also for the repetition of them in the debate here today. It is not at least a compliment to a professional and engaged civil servant, who has been in charge of this for a long time. I think we have reason to say that we can be proud of the Norwegian Foreign Service. It is also words that can be shared to the greatest extent with my predecessor, who, not least, provided for important work in terms of reforming the sanctions against Iraq and who have been responsible for almost half of the period that we are reporting and debating today. It has been true that the debate has been somewhat influenced by the objectives set by Norway. I think we can say that we have reasonably achieved these objectives. But after listening to a few of the comments, I must at the same time stress that it is the mandate of the Security Council that must, of course, govern our efforts. The mandate of the Security Council is to maintain peace and security. This means, of course, that the key issues need to be dealt with by the Security Council. It's meant the Middle East. It has meant Iraq. I think we must be able to say that we have also done the job that we as a member of the Security Council should do. In the Iraq question, there is no doubt that the government was firmly anchored in the Storting, through the big debate we had here in October, for the efforts that were made in the Iraq question. Gunhild The eye focused on the experience she herself had after visiting Rwanda, and the disappointment that someone has had in connection with the UN's commitment in that way. I think that's all reason to learn from that disappointment. In many ways, there are some of the same lessons we learned in the Balkans, from Srebrenica, in the 1990s, where we have to say that the UN's engagement rules were not robust enough in relation to the challenge that was then presented. It's very important for us to learn how to organise this in the future. I guess now is also one of the explanations, for example. that NATO and Western countries have been so heavily involved in the Balkans as they have been, that they have an organisation, training and engagement rules that have made it possible to do the job properly. As we approach the individual crises, I think it is therefore very important to deal with the crisis in the light of the challenges it presents us with. That is why it has been very important, what the Committee is doing in its position, namely talking in the same spirit about both the United Nations forces and the United Nations mandate. I think that just gives the flexibility that is necessary. On this background, I'm a little surprised by the criticism that Marit Arnstad made, where she showed the contrast between what had been the weight of our commitments in the 1990s and what is the weight today. The reality is that the change came under the Bondevik I government, of which Marit Arnstad himself was a member. It was the transition from UNIFIL to our commitment to the Balkans that marked this in many ways. I think it was very reasonable that the Bondevik I government did what it did by suggesting that you withdraw from UNIFIL. I think you might have done it a little too late, because this was a question of using the resources on the most important and urgent problems. But then you went to another way to do these things. That's why Marit Arnstad's posts were essentially a criticism of what she herself was into, in the 1990s. But I really want to comfort myself and say that I think it made sense, what was done at the time. There's another lesson to be taken along, and it's that the world community not only has to forget conflicts and withdraw if the problem is unsolved. That's one of the problems we're still facing in the Balkans. I think it's important to continue to have a Norwegian involvement in the Balkans. I think the consequences of getting out too early could be dramatic. This is even more exposed in the case of Afghanistan, where there is no doubt that the situation is very serious. The problems are difficult. But then it's not a point to withdraw. Then we have to look at how we might do things differently or do more things. If not, it simply means that the world community in that area has lost. We should not do that. I fully agree that new tasks are coming up. A United Nations exposure was mentioned in the Middle East. Yes, it could be. This could be done, for example, by: also think that if the parties agree, NATO should be able to play a role in this. I was among those of my colleagues who at the last NATO Council of Ministers did not overlook the fact that it would be an opportunity if the parties wanted it. Now it's not going very well in the area this time either, unfortunately. It's very dramatic, what we've seen in the last few days. But that such an opportunity is there, I think we should discuss in many ways. As far as Africa is concerned, I want to put in a serious word in relation to what Lars Rise said, namely that Norway has had an involvement with the Ethiopian-Eritrea conflict. I think it's very important to maintain that, and it's also one of the kinds of conflicts that we shouldn't forget, even though they don't have the main headlines today. That's why I'm glad Lars Rise underlines this commitment. It means in many ways that we should continue with a commitment to UNME, which is a clear UN operation, not least because it goes into a larger context because we're doing more than being there in the Ethiopia-Eritrea conflict. It is an important choice of field of action that we have to face in this way. I think in many ways that in the African context, perhaps the most important is Norway. In the case of Congo, there's an interesting point. I understand the concern that is. Jacobsen asked me to account for what would be written in the revised about it. To that it is said that the revision is under release, and it is difficult for me to comment on a setting that has not been published. I have to refrain from that. But I hope that means that Jacobsen in that case puts more money into the state budget, unless he wants to cut out something completely concrete that we're doing now. I want to say that when he praises Sweden, I think it is very interesting, considering that Jacobsen is also an EU opponent. Indeed, the EU is on its way in to do that job in Congo under a UN mandate. I think it's a very interesting and very positive development, and then we get to hope and believe that they'll be able to do a real job in this area. It is, as I said, a serious conflict, and the EU's taking on such a role is in many ways a new step. But I think it's an interesting step. I am glad that not least Jacobsen is so positive that the European Union is doing such a task outside the European continent. It was invited to say a few things about other themes as well. I don't think I'm going to bring up again a debate on the Middle East with Jacobsen. We've been through this many times before. I think Norway has found a real tone here. And I think that if we're going to have a problem beyond just sending resolutions, we've found a proper balance to be able to do a useful job on the ground. But I'd like to admit the frustrations of what's now happening. As far as our involvement in Iraq is concerned, it will well come up in the context of the revised debate. I would just like to remind you that in this area, too, the Security Council has now adopted a resolution, so that the commitment to which the Government has invited the Stortinge has a basis for a UN resolution and should therefore be within the framework of this debate. It did not seem that all the representatives fully agreed, or agreed with, that. When it comes to reform work, I really don't have anything to add to what we write in the message. As for the issue of the ICC, I am not quite sure what it was about, but I assumed it was about the Norwegian vote last summer. I believe that this was a correct compromise that was then reached. It was not an ideal situation, not a non-profit resolution, but for the sake of the UN peacekeeping operations, I think it was absolutely essential that we agreed to that compromise – because not having the largest country in the United Nations within that process, I think it would be directly contrary to the wish expressed by many here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e463	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e466	I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that a distinction should be made between the traditional UN forces under blue helmets and other military forces that have had and have a UN mandate. It is completely unmistakable that these traditional UN forces could do a job in the Balkans as the NATO forces have done in Afghanistan, and unmistakably that such forces may have a special role in separating the Middle East conflict parties. What's most important is where you put an international commitment. It is a problem that Africa has been too much forgotten, and that you go too far where the television cameras turn. Weapons of mass destruction are a dangerous thing, but the civil wars and hunger in Africa are in itself a weapon of mass destruction. Three million people have been killed in Congo, and it is clear that we have to ask ourselves: what can we do in that conflict? What I want to ask is, does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs now have a job to do to look at what kind of staff you can contribute to the peace force set up there?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e473	Let me first say that I fully agree with Thorbjørn Jagland's starting point, namely that it must not be the television cameras that control where we are. That's why I put the Ethiopia-Eritrea conflict so high on the list, hoping that the television cameras won't get back there, as they have been. As far as the Congo is concerned, it is well known that we have had five forces in the Congo. What is now required is probably something quite different than this, not least that you have exposure rules that allow you to go in and really put power behind the requirements. As far as I can see, that is what this EU force is now getting with the UN mandate. But if we're going to be able to go in here, we're going to have to either get something else out, or we're going to have to get our defenses up. That's the two dilemmas we're facing. I haven't seen any grounds for going further here now, unless one of those assumptions is in place. It's going to be exciting to see what's being revised in that area. If the Storting has added revised to what the Government has proposed, it will be an interesting development.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e480	From the point of view of the SV, we have nothing against the EU also making an effort as long as he is led by the UN and under UN command. What I want to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs about is a little thoughtful work that has been done in relation to the international conference on economic driving forces that we organized in New York. Also the positive thing that came after 11 September was that a transparent relationship was due both to this with hidden amounts and the anti-tax forces, which came in bad times – now things should be on the table, and one should have transparent relationships in most economic transactions. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs about this with economic drive to cause conflicts: what did we get out of that work? And how does it proceed?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e489	I was a little surprised at what Jacobsen said about Congo, if he now requires a UN command. What you get is a United Nations mandate. I think this is going to be a very important contribution. I assume it was the UN mandate he expected, but I think it's important to keep track of it as well. On the issue of economic driving forces, Norway, after providing a very thorough written material, chose to hold a seminar on the issue outside the Council framework itself. It would not be possible to make a Council meeting on that issue, but it was a way to start a debate, try to share information and views with others through a seminar. We did well to get to a part. I wish we had managed to reach more than what we did, but I think you could say that it was at least not on us. It was a very heated and difficult situation – not least the Middle East was then on the agenda. But I think we can say that we did what we could in our presidency, to put it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e502	I accept the changes made in peacekeeping forces in the 1990s, among other things. drew Norwegian peacekeeping forces out of Lebanon, but there was in itself no signal that in the years to come we were to deprioritise peacekeeping forces. The problem with the previous right-wing positions here is that sometimes the closer Norway is to the peacekeeping forces, the better it is, but the further away from Norway, especially in Africa, the more problematic it is. Now I understand that the Minister of Foreign Affairs will in some way not answer about the Congo, because he pushes it over to revised. I will not, of course, ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to comment on what is going on in the Committee in the context of the revision, but I will ask him two questions. One is: What is the position of the Minister of Foreign Affairs on increasing Norwegian efforts in the Congo? The second question is: what he says about economic budgets and balances can be taken as a signal that when Norway now prioritises contributions in Iraq, we must do so instead of and at the expense of the Congo, because we do not have a financial opportunity for both?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e511	The first part of the line was peculiar in the sense that if the representative Arnstad believes that it is the geographical proximity of Norway that is crucial, she knows very well that it has never been. How she can come to the idea that it's Right's position, gets to be her problem, but that's what she should know in her job. I just want to mention Afghanistan, it's a good example that it's not necessarily the things that are closest to the border of Norway, which is the point here. So I'm adding that to it. As far as Congo is concerned, I have already answered it in the line to Jagland. I have nothing in preparation for that question, but when I mentioned revised, it was because Jacobsen invited me to comment on the comments that were being revised, and I have a little difficulty doing that. With regard to Iraq, it will not be possible for Norway, within the framework of which we have, to be able to make the contribution that we have invited the Stortinget to do and which is now being dealt with in the context of the revision. That is why we asked for additional appropriations in this area. It also applies to all other areas, that that would not be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e520	I fully agree with what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, it is not useful to send Norwegian personnel, soldiers, to the Congo after a remark in the revised budget. It has to be treated in a completely different way. But when the Foreign Minister says it's just a matter of money, it's a cross of thought. I just wanted to point out that there is a cross of thought that when there is such a searchlight as it was on Kosovo, Afghanistan, Iraq, the Government always comes to the Storing and says that now we have to have so much money and so much money. But there has actually been a genocide on Africa's continent for a long time. There's no criticism of the Government, but it's a cross of thought that we don't have the same reaction ability on the part of the international community. Another thing is that it must be possible to sit down and look at what Norway is able to contribute within the framework now set up by the Security Council and within the forces set up by the EU. Is there something we can contribute to that that doesn't necessarily need huge additional appropriations? That's also a question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e525	The point here is that the amount spent by Stortinget on international operations, which is below the Ministry of Defence's budget, is fully used within the year we are now facing. That's why the Minister of Defense has said that some of the smaller engagements she sees as difficult to continue with. It is the framework within which every government must work. I hope and believe that the assistance now to be provided by not least the European Union will lead a little further. But as I said, I don't have anything in preparation in this area, just so it's perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e530	The Congo is one example, but looking at developments, the number of Norwegian soldiers in the UN service began to go slowly, but probably downwards from approximately. 1995 and it's almost flat out to zero. So there's a contrast between an explicit policy of supporting Africa and the practical, what becomes reality. So I want to ask the Foreign Minister, is it a line change? We've seen it in relation to the number of soldiers, but is it also a political line change going on here?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e535	No, I could say, there's no line break going on. To the extent that a line shift took place, it was not least the government Marit Arnstad was a member of, promoted, and with good reason. At that time, the strengths in the Balkans were better used than in UNIFIL. And for the sake of peace, it was a sensible thing to do what was then done. I think it's very important that we now take on board the conflict we're facing, see if we can deliver anything, and what we can deliver, see what others can accomplish in the conflicts. The reality is that Norway has been so high on the ground in peacekeeping work, in peacemaking, that we have used the resources we have in many ways. We have the commitment in the Balkans, we have the commitment in Afghanistan, we now have a pretty modest commitment going on in Iraq – it's not all the world's big, to say it carefully. But that means we've taken advantage of the resources we have. If you're going to do something other than what you've done so far, you're going to have to take out some of what we're doing now, unless you're going to give other frames than what we're now aware of.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e543	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e546	The UN is a cornerstone of Norwegian foreign policy. Multilateral cooperation is the best way to promote peace and security, human rights and sustainable development. A strong UN is the best way for effective multilateral cooperation. It is therefore important and right to support Norway under the initiative of the Secretary-General to reform and strengthen the UN. As stated in the submission, the Committee considers it an important prerequisite for a strong UN to succeed in effective task-solving and red tape. It can be achieved through several different actions, but the Right will, as last year, stress in particular the importance of the further development of the Performance Evaluation Tool and the continued improvement of coordination within the UN and with other multilateral institutions. Norway supports the emphasis of the Secretary-General on enhanced coordination at country level. It is important that the UN's overall work is integrated into focused strategies. This applies in developing countries, but also in countries at risk of conflict or in a post-conflict situation. We welcome the implementation of an action plan for the efforts of the UN Special Organisations, Funds and Programmes at country level, including facilitating conditions for greater overall resource use and the implementation of joint programmes. It assumes that the UN Local Coordinator must be given an expanded role and capacity with a view to establishing an effective rural office. These included: An example of how this can be done, four of its members were in charge of the UNDP when we visited Rwanda in 2002, a tour that has been visited by others and which gave a very strong impression. The coordination in the field must also cover the activities of the World Bank and the Monetary Fund. The degree of coordination between the international funding institutions and the other United Nations system at country level has been strengthened in recent years as a result of work on national poverty strategies – the so-called PRSPs, the Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers. This is a positive development, and we welcome the fact that coordination will also apply to the new evaluation methods, the so-called PSIA, Poverty and Social Impact Analysis. Norway has been working for enhanced coordination at country level. This is where the reform gains will be most intrusive and visible. The function and role of the UNDP should be strengthened for this purpose, and we welcome the fact that later annual reports also inform about the progress of these processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e561	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three. [[See page 3215]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e577	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes, for the other speakers to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e584	2002 was an eventful year for NATO, where the establishment of the NATO-Russia Council in May, the successful Prague Summit in November and the breakthrough in EU-NATO relations in December were the highlights. 2003 has undoubtedly offered significant challenges to the alliance, not least as a result of the disagreement in the Iraq Alliance and the support to Turkey in this context. It is therefore difficult to have a completely neutral representation of NATO cooperation. Nevertheless, it is also wrong to see only crisis signs in the alliance. There is little evidence that the work to make NATO more adapted to today's security reality will stop. NATO expansion has also not occurred because the alliance has become irrelevant or irrelevant. On the contrary, enlargement can help put pressure on NATO’s reform efforts. Norway’s main line is to help NATO adapt to a new and more complex security policy image. There are several reasons why it's important. The most basic thing is that the threat picture we're facing is calling for multinational military cooperation. Military instruments are only one of many security policy instruments, but conflicts of varying intensity, conflict prevention and peace-building create a need for the type of military cooperation that NATO represents. Another important reason why Norway must actively contribute to NATO’s transition is the crisis in transatlantic cooperation that we have witnessed — a crisis that may actually start after the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001. Norway must give strength to those on both sides of the Atlantic who see the migration process in NATO as a way of strengthening the transatlantic links, not to those who interpret all disagreements as the beginning of the end of NATO. Both European countries and the United States must be willing to adapt to this process. There may be a painful process, but for Norway, there is little doubt about where our security interests lie, namely in strong cooperation between Europe and the United States. The head of the U.S. Senate Foreign Affairs Committee, Richard Lugar, stated in connection with the Senate's treatment of NATO enlargement that it is not enough to overcome the political disagreement about Iraq. It alone does not guarantee the alliance a central role in the fight against international terrorism. He calls for real burden-sharing within the alliance and real follow-up to the intention to strengthen military capabilities in European NATO countries. I think we deserve to take his well-meaning call to follow up on the commitments of the Praha Summit in earnest. NATO response strength and a general strengthening of the capacities of the alliance are central. NATO's support for the ISAF force in Afghanistan is also very important. We must be prepared to participate outside the traditional responsibility of the fight against terrorism. The experience with the NATO-Russia Council is provisionally positive. The Balkans, the fight against international terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction are central parts of the work programme for 2003. Norway has taken on a leading role and is working to ensure that nuclear safety is also an important field of work for the Council. It's very positive. Open and committed cooperation between NATO and Russia is likely to strengthen our own ability to influence our neighbour in the east. With regard to cooperation between NATO and the EU – the Berlin plus agenda – the majority of the Committee believes that the breakthrough is very positive and fully in line with what we have thought for a long time, namely that strengthening European crisis management capacities is in our and NATO interest. As the Communication underlines, close cooperation between NATO and the EU will strengthen the global capacity of the international community for crisis management. A new division of labour between NATO and the EU is also a prerequisite for maintaining active American involvement in Europe. Both the Progress Party and the Central Party are of the opinion that European cooperation in defence and security policy could weaken NATO. This view is not shared by other NATO countries, nor by the United States. In the joint EU-NATO opinion of December 2002, it is clear that a stronger European role will play in the vitalisation of the alliance. At the same time, it is clear that EU policies in this area will be complementary to NATO and not an alternative. There is an opinion shared by a number of EU countries. Our challenge in the future will be to ensure that our cooperation with the EU in this area is as close as possible. We should also endeavour to participate actively in any EU-led military operations. European security is also our security. However, there is a point that the alliance can become less visible as the EU takes on more responsibility for crisis management in Europe, as the Government points out in the Communication. It could therefore be a political challenge to make the importance of the NATO alliance visible. The EU's defence and security policy is evident in development, and the Convention also has a strengthening of this part of EU cooperation on its agenda. However, whatever the outcome of this process, Norway will be most important to ensure good consultation arrangements with the EU, all the time we stand outside the European Union. Finally, the fact that Norway and the Government have now succeeded in providing key functions to the NATO command on Jåttå is very gratifying. This would not have worked if NATO did not believe Norway had anything to contribute to the alliance as a whole. NATO's continued presence in Norway also gives us a better opportunity to exercise influence in the alliance, an opportunity we should and should take advantage of.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e617	Very much of what this annual report refers to is discussed in different contexts in the Stortinge in previous foreign debates and in consultations between government and big business. However, I shall make a few comments in addition to those made by the case-speaker on behalf of the Committee. Firstly, the question of whether we are faced with a NATO crisis: I believe, as the case-leader, that it is more fruitful to look at whether we are able to transform NATO into the new challenges both in relation to threats outside Europe and in Europe, while at the same time looking at the issue of NATO can be a decent hub of global peace-building work – not in the sense of a global NATO, as I see some argue as a fear of the situation, and as I see it in the debate, but how NATO's capacity can be a resource for the UN in global peace work. It's a different approach, but it's the approach that's the Norwegian one, and it's the approach that most countries in NATO are following. We have seen in the wake of the Iraq crisis that there are different views in Europe and different views across the Atlantic about the role of NATO and how one should use military instruments beyond what is directly authorised by the UN. Our comment on this is that it's not necessarily a crisis for NATO, but it's a fact that there are different views in Europe and within the alliance. The crisis will be there if the alliance is unable to reach a decision or to agree on a policy. In what was NATO's domain, to say NATO's mandate, NATO was able to come to conclusions largely through this crisis. It took a long time at a few points, Turkey's question is an example of that, but NATO was able to arrive at conclusions that were important and that gather the Alliance. The message places great emphasis on Russia's cooperation. I just want to underline that there is a cornerstone for the development of the Alliance. But it's a bit of an amazing thing that S.V. is saying when they say so directly, as they said twice before, that Russia has a veto right in the NATO alliance. It's a very special way to establish a partnership with another power, to give the other one a veto right. We have seen that the NATO Alliance has been able to develop fruitful cooperation with Russia, and that Russia's government and authorities are interested in such cooperation. It may not have happened if an SV has followed the audio line. With that, I just want to say that the most interesting thing in this debate will be when SV here is going to present what they have announced, among other things. on 11 April during the debate on the extension, that it is in connection with this Annual Report that SV should present its view on the content and development of NATO. If they don't intend to contribute to this, there's no reason to take the word, for the other points of view we've heard from it before. It is time to contribute to the conclusions and not just hint at the conclusions, to draw the conclusion when the action has taken is a little late. The view that one has progressed too quickly, and that kind of assessment is of no interest to a political party in Stortinget. The interesting thing is what one actually thinks, not so much what one thinks in retrospect, but that one wasn't able to make up a point when the matter was up to date. If one comes to a conclusion now, yes, in most cases it's a little late. Let me give you a few examples of this, as SV mentions. They were critical of the extension, but I think they were too, as far as I understood. They were critical of Norway’s continuing support for a rapid reaction force. Should one have been a little less for, but still for? This is a strange form of attitude to politics at all, to very specific questions that we are dealing with here. The working party has given its assent to the rapid reaction force. The size has given a connection to this. Now, if one were to figure out that one should be smarter or not smarter, it's pretty uninteresting. But now we have to right what SV means at these points. What I just want to say about this is that we have to make sure that the debate around questions, like that. the rapid reaction strength, not becoming a one-dimensional debate. We had a tab on this in connection with the discussion on Norwegian contributions to peace operations under the UN regime. So here we're going to have a little bit of the same thing. To underline it, we are not disunity in what has happened. We have agreed that Norway will contribute to such a strength. But we also need to be careful, in line with what we said in the previous debate, that Norway is able to have contributions that are in place when the rapid reaction force may have finished its job, or in order to avoid this force having to be used. In other words, it should be Norwegian quality and Norwegian competence, that one is able to be where one has taken on a mission, and must not move after whether there are lights for television or anything, i.e. that one does not have resources to carry out and carry out the task that is assigned to it. There shall be a quality stamp in Norwegian contributions, and Norway and many other European countries have a particular advantage in building military-civil cooperation in different areas. It's important that both dimensions do not go so far as to give a quick priority. In any case, Norway can never be a major force in that area, but we can contribute. But at the same time, we have to make sure that we can be there as there is a need to be when those who are fast out have done their job. Many great powers around the world will think that this is an important competence, an important contribution from the Norwegian side. Therefore, we should focus on this in the priority of resources within the Norwegian defence. I refer to Russia as an important area of cooperation. The other area with which I started was cooperation in Europe. We see that stronger cooperation in Europe and stronger coordination in Europe are not a threat to NATO but a threat to a transatlantic NATO. Without stronger coordination and better division of labour in Europe, Europe will be an uninteresting partner for the Americans. It's an important starting point. There's no contradiction like that. At the same time, we should also insist that NATO is an alliance in which all the parties have their views and their role. It's not that there's a one-sided definition of what NATO is going to do, from, for example: U.S. Armed Forces. Europeans need coordination, efficiency and greater contribution, but at the same time it must be clear that Europe has also voiced in the Alliance. So far it is quite obvious, but we just have to state that without stronger European cooperation there will be no NATO alliance in the transatlantic alliance. That is why we must also take with us the next historical clarification in this debate, namely that the Central Party and the Progress Party have joined forces to declare European cooperation a threat to the relationship with the United States. Right, they have taken this in two different notes, but they're so similar that one could well write together about this fear of European cooperation because it could go beyond our relationship with the United States. I think it's wrong. Besides, it's very interesting for most of the parties that one places such emphasis on the bond of the United States as one actually does in this setting. So the Central Party also has a chance to look at why we're clawing into cooperation with the United States through stronger European cooperation, if this is an attitude that the Central Party has intended to have in many other contexts. That was not what we heard earlier in winter and autumn in connection with Iraq, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e638	NATO is changing, and it's necessary. But for our safety, let us hope and believe that the credibility and strength of the alliance will prevail. A new organization and a new command structure are right, which was blessed at the NATO meeting yesterday. The fact that the new structure now also gives a footprint in Norway is, of course, joyous. NATO is expanding, initially no simple operation. There are many challenges, especially military and in relation to our great neighbour in the East, Russia. But after the fall of the Berlin Wall, the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the march of democracy in Eastern and Central Europe, NATO enlargement is a major political event for the people of Europe. NATO has, throughout its existence, been the guarantor of peace, freedom and democracy and a deterrent to tyranny and dictatorship. What is more natural than that people who have gained their new freedom want to secure this freedom in an alliance that has succeeded? Fortunately, NATO never had to wage any great war in Europe, and it also says something about the strength of the alliance. A NATO debate now is important. It is impossible to participate in such a debate without considering the events we experienced in ours when NATO as an organisation was challenged, where the organisation is standing back with the clear challenge of trying to gather the forces and re-establish loyalty from all member countries. The fact that some Member States chose to use NATO to mark national special interests was very unfortunate and contributed to many now questioning the future of the alliance. For Norway, it is of vital interest that NATO is robust and effective and not in any way undermined, either politically or militarily. Even NATO's presence on Yåttå is not sufficient if NATO is deprioritised as the arena. That's why it's in our interest to make sure to help or push our allies into the NATO table and leave them there. Other arenas to safeguard Europe’s security should be subordinated and should support NATO’s leading role rather than compete with it. Attempts to lift the EU as a security policy actor are still being made. Some countries show great ambitions and great appetite for such a role for the EU. Not that there is necessarily joy over the EU as an organisation that is perhaps the most important, but rather the possibility for some EU countries to play a major role without the United States. And here we are at one of the cores: are we going to accept that the EU is being tried as a competitor or counterpol to the United States, or are we going to make sure that the United States and Europe are moving in the same direction, participating in the same meetings and preferably speaking with one voice? One can slowly ask questions about whether some European NATO countries are working to undermine the importance of the alliance in order to increase their own influence. But what is the EU in the security and defence policy arena? Only a dwarf – many great words, fine ambitions, but barely enough capacity to carry out the smallest and most peaceful missions. This lack of self-confidence and the ability to see own limitations makes us concerned that the objective does not, for example: is a greater responsibility for Europe's security, but rather a detachment from the transatlantic axis. For Norway, it is important that this strategy does not succeed, that we do not end up in a dispute between the EU and the United States. NATO has been successful as a security policy instrument. Why not accept it and allow the EU to focus on other tasks? As a NATO member, we have governance of NATO's resources, at least to some extent. So let's work on these resources remaining in NATO and not diluting in e.g.. EU. The Progress Party is pleased that the majority in the Committee sees that we have challenges in relation to developments in the European Union. It is important that we allow our vote to be heard, especially now that the future structure of the European Union is also to be defined. From the vote, I would like to refer to the majority comment where all parties, except SV, draw attention to the military gap over the Atlantic, and where the majority believe Norway can be a driver for improving military capacity, a new command structure and a new allied response force. The Progress Party will stress here that if we are to do something about the capacity gap between Europe and the United States, it is also very responsible for a nation such as Norway. Then we have to show it, and then we need a reinforcement rather than a reduction in our own defence budget. Then I would like to make a few comments to the representative of Blankenborg, who refers to a more than a degree of convergence of views between the Central Party and the Advance Party in the position on relations with the EU as a security and defence policy actor, for which I have explained the reasons for the Advance Party. From our point of view, this is not a mistrust of the EU as a system and organisation, but it is an attempt to give a clear signal of how we believe that the EU should be organised, what the EU should prioritise, and what should be the most important tasks. I also mentioned in my contribution the challenges of the EU now to look ahead and organise for a new European future. In the European landscape and the map that is now being drawn, we believe that the role of security policy can well be left to others. There is probably a slightly different approach to the EU than that of the Centre Party, and thus an attempt on our part to say something about the processes in progress in the EU and in Europe, and to try to be constructive in taking responsibility for the challenges we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e661	I am pleased that the representative of Blankenborg mentions the provocative words ‘NATO in Crisis’. It is debated around the world, in Norwegian newspapers and in all security policy environments, but perhaps not so much here in this room. I totally agree that to make the United Nations work as a whole, we also need regional security actors to make the job regional for the United Nations. Obviously, NATO can have a role there. NATO may even play a role in the Middle East, etc. That's not what we in SV are against, but there's more content in it. I'll come back a little bit later. We have the more recent years, whether we want it or not, with the rapid reaction force making the Norwegian defence of dispatch forces so that the United States can use them anywhere, in some cases even without perhaps being so much approved by the United Nations. At the same time we have Coast Guards lying, without radar. We see that the claims of Norwegian sovereignty and the tasks of the Defence in the vicinity are weakened, while they are strengthened in the overseas areas. There's something we should have with us. But in SV – Blankenburg asks how SV goes in this context – we have a debate outside of our members, which will last for a year or two, which will lay the foundation. We don't have a bastant idea that this is how it should be. We are well aware of our Danish sister party, which says: Get out of NATO, but strengthen the EU. Get a more federal EU as a counterweight to the United States. If we end up there, I strongly doubt, but there is nothing to conclude with today. We are going to have that debate. That's why I'm glad Blankenborg also started this by saying that NATO might be in crisis. We all have to help make this a solution. If it's a NATO, or what it is, we don't actually know, but at least we dare to go into the debate. Personally, I must say that I am more on the anti-military line that the workers' founders provided a good many years ago. The coalition of willing people is now the new slogan of international policy that can help to divide transatlantic cooperation, precisely because the United States does not follow the usual patterns of cooperation and is united, but rather choose among willing. Or should we believe a commentator in a newspaper that thinks that the normal interests are different between Europe and the United States, and that we now see a normalization of the relationship after a very abnormal period of 50 years, after World War II, with strong ties between the United States and Europe. It may be that that's the real foreign policy orientation, at least to parts of the American political environment. NATO is in crisis, and above all there was a defence alliance built on the cold war, which is actually facing a good many years ago, and a lack of an external enemy. This is an attempt to compensate by looking for common enemies and, at my discretion, making himself a ‘doer’ of the real actor, the United States. So, one of us is trying to get involved by doing something -- yes, we're going to do it and we're going to do it -- and then one more and more goes away from what was defended by Norwegian and European territory. We've come any further, because last year's NATO debate I asked about NATO Secretary-General's scepticism for preventive attacks and his clear opinion that NATO is not seeking conflict. These questions are equally relevant this year. It's not that the mess in NATO is nothing to care about, and it'll go over. For example, in the case of: Article 4, and when it comes to the Iraq war, we have actually asked for distributions and more open debates on concrete situations affecting our NATO membership. But we in the UK experience that when the United Nations, the Congress of the United States, and almost all the parliaments around the world have hearings and debates for days, we in Norway must be careful with extended foreign committee and some sort of distribution. That's why I'm very pleased that Blankenborg is now taking up the possibility that there may be a crisis in NATO. It may be «trouble in paradise». Perhaps this will have consequences for Norwegian foreign policy in the long term? Both the Partnership for Peace and the Cooperation Pact between NATO and Russia are positive features in the development of NATO after the Cold War. On the other hand, the out of area strategy with its instruments through the Praha obligations is worse to swallow for us in SV. Rapid reaction forces, conducting a NATO study on rocket response, etc. concrete details of trying to bring NATO back to date, without taking up the debate on whether this is responding to security needs, both for Norway and the rest of the region. What has emerged about weapons of mass destruction after the war in Iraq is mildly voted in favour because it may seem that our allies, the United States and the United Kingdom, have produced evidence against the United Nations and opinion with the aim of getting the United Nations to approve the war that was started to secure the world. Yet the surest thing we know about weapons of mass destruction is that UN weapons inspectors have succeeded in removing a good deal of them in 1998. What does this tell us about the coalition of willing? Yes, it may be, among other things. Looks like we can get into collisions with the truth and coalitions of willing to lead the UN and international law behind the light. It should help us to rethink this security policy picture. It should be able to strengthen us further in the hope that the UN will have most of the responsibility for peace and security. The debate on defence policy is, in general, marked by openness and a willingness to think again. So, when the NATO Communication says that the evolution ‘has given new impetus to cooperation in NATO throughout the year’, I think it shows that the will for innovation is not reflected in government and big business. Because it should be possible to get this debate more concrete. One should, for example: create Norwegian authorities to participate in international operations — a concrete, invitable UN mandate is one, acute danger of genocide or extensive human suffering another — all policy instruments shall be tried and the issue of Norway participating in offensive operations must also be assessed in relation to the use of resources for other tasks, not least in relation to Norwegian security interests. Weapons of mass destruction should be better defined. Weapons of mass destruction are nuclear weapons, while biological and chemical weapons are more weapons of mass murder. The nuclear weapon is what – if I may say – has ignited the terrible notion that it actually removes everything. When we are now discussing the development of NATO, we must be aware that membership, both on paper and in practice, is in conflict with the Non-Proliferation Agreement, which we discussed in an interpellation here earlier this winter, of which Norway and all NATO countries are members, and also wanted from a large majority of the Norwegian population to ban nuclear weapons. The Non-Proliferation Agreement for Nuclear Weapons is legally binding and discharges the obligations that we actually have in relation to NATO's nuclear strategy. During the 2002 Non-Proliferation Surveillance Conference, Member States committed themselves to a nuclear disarmament action plan at 13 points. Whether we want to or not, break NATO's nuclear policy with several of these obligations. That's the content of NATO that scares me the most, and that's one of the most important reasons why SV has great scepticism that we're still going to be members of NATO. According to the Action Plan, all NATO countries are obliged to reduce the role of nuclear weapons in their security policies, thus reducing the risk of them being used again. Nevertheless, the strategic concept of the alliance is still determined that nuclear weapons are the top guarantee of security for the allies. The fact that new Member States are automatically placed under the alliance's nuclear umbrella also does not help to reduce the importance of nuclear weapons. We've had the extension debate, so we're not going to do it again. But it represents an actual reversal of this work and an increased spread risk, because more come under that umbrella. How can we refuse other countries to acquire nuclear weapons or enter under the nuclear umbrella when we insist that such an umbrella is decisive for our security? Isn't it time to merge that umbrella and put it in the repository?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e684	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e687	Even as a doctor, I have some problems seeing the difference in whether we're being mass murdered or mass destroyed, but that's the way it is. Not least a small country with which Norway is heavily dependent on a community-based network with countries with which we share values and which can play a role in our own security. So SV is skeptical of NATO, SV is opposed to EU membership, SV disagreed with the UN track when the government was a burden and burst with the UN in the Iraq crisis. One can easily be tempted to think that this must be an expression of a naive world understanding seen above the sandbox edge in the other country, unless there is then an alternative idea of security. The question to Jacobsen is: What is the alternative security anchoring of SV for our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e696	We don't have to go further than over the cold to Sweden. We can jump even a little further away, to Finland, learn a little bit from the old Kekkonen, who was a master at having the art of balance in order when it came to being between east and west. The cold war is over. There's nothing that's completely pinned down in relation to the alliances we're going to have in the future. I think that for the SV and for the other party's part, we have to think about something new, not least with the signals that we're given that NATO can figure out that the United States might be abusing NATO. Now maybe I'm not or SV the right one to point that out. But there are other alliances. We can think of an OSCE, a pan-European security and defence cooperation through the OSCE, an expanded OSCE, an OSCE that has other tasks in addition to what they have today. It's not unmistakable. We can also do as... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e705	It's nice to end up with that sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e709	How long do I have?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e714	One minute, that's what's going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e717	In the debate on NATO's extension on 11 April, Mr Jacobsen said that SV would come back with the clear responses to NATO's developments in this debate, and I thank you for the contribution. In addition, I would like to ask a question about SV's hold to NATO: what is the reason why SV does not have the same clear hold of a no to NATO that SV has to no to the EU? I understand that the starting point is the same thing. But here Jacobsen says he's skeptical and critical. Isn't he as clear on the two things? Perhaps he could be as nuanced in the EU question as in the NATO question?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e724	I'm not going to set the EU up against NATO here. These are two very different things. We see a process in the EU where, in my opinion, the EU is likely to expand and eventually become watered down, while perhaps NATO is on the verge of tearing itself apart, precisely because there are no more tasks left for NATO. In this context, it is right for all parties to launch a new debate on defence and security policy. We don't want to set it up against each other. SV has always been and are opponents of NATO. It may not be relevant to report Norway out of NATO from one day to another. We know that NATO also has great support in the population. As I was inside, it's the content of NATO, which it leads to, among other things. in relation to nuclear strategies, which means that at least I am very sceptical about going into the organization. We need someone to talk to, among others. Pastifistane's case, which speaks the anti-military's case. If they weren't represented in Stortinget, it wouldn't be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e731	I found it affordable that SV has seen a debate about its relationship with NATO. Openness is always something you should appreciate. SV said they would spend a few years on it. They are also potential government partners. The foreign policy and the defence policy referred to by Mr Jacobsen today do not provide exactly a government basis. It is not easy to control by. Is SV itself forbidden to have a policy on behalf of a government? The second is, when Jacobsen says that we are developing a rapid reaction force for use by the United States – similar to what he said in the introduction – does he think it is a factual claim? In my article, I want to show that Norway might be fairly independent of the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e738	I call it dispatching forces. And at certain conditions – in Afghanistan – NATO was not allowed to join. One wanted so much: can't we get along, because then we're important too? That is the reality of it. So to the end, Jon Lilletun is a parliamentary leader and, of course, at a different political level than I am, so this with government and that I shouldn't comment at all. The same would probably also have appreciated Lilletun, if one of his parties had been asked for that. We don't have the reason to go into a government. What we're doing has an honest and straightforward starting point: we're going to see if there might be new ways to look at defence and security policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e747	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e750	It's a pleasure to stand here today and debate NATO. One might say that there is a message we are discussing, and not what happened yesterday. But anyway, there is something about Norway's position in NATO, and so I thought it was a pleasure that the defence ministers in NATO agreed yesterday to give Yåttoa a very central role in the new command structure. Despite drama, Norway received an important command located in Stavanger. I would like to pay tribute to the Minister of Defence, who has worked for a long time to ensure that there is still a NATO command on Yåttå, even though the number of commands in NATO is now greatly reduced. The Christian People's Party believes this is a good solution both for NATO and for Norway. This decision shows that the marginalization to which Norway claims to have been exposed in NATO cannot be deleted. Yes, a military headquarters will become a European centre for training, planning, transformation and modernisation before the alliance. Norway has unique and challenging practice conditions that allies can benefit from. The decision has major consequences for Norway. The new command in Stavanger is larger and at a higher level than the one with Yåttå today. Getting the new command will get us hundreds of jobs. It is said that about 300 international settings are added to Yåttå. The decision secures us a central role within NATO. This means that in future, too, we will have permanent allied presence on Norwegian soil. It is of great political value for Norway to have a solid foothold in NATO, especially because we are outside the EU. It is not least to have a strong position now when the Member States before the EU increasingly coordinate their policies and we feel that allies show less attention to the northern flank. Norway is a small country, but we have participation and our own position before the alliance. Norway has demonstrated on several occasions that we believe in a future for NATO, and that we want to strengthen its legitimacy. Norway has been praised by NATO for the conversion of the Defence, and there is a quality stamp to Norway when Yåttå now gets a key role in the conversion of the entire alliance. It shows that small countries can be very involved if we use the opportunities we have, and bet on quality and good solutions. As a small country, we are dependent on military allies, and for Norway, NATO is the most important security alliance. NATO is a community of interests where allies are united in resolving single-committee security policy challenges. The alliance is based on values based on democracy, respect for human rights and a rule of law and law. NATO shall prevent war and provide effective resistance. The alliance shall also have the capacity for effective crisis management in view of the security of the Member States. The fundamental principle behind NATO is the combined commitment to cooperation between member countries, based on their security. Solidarity and coherence within the alliance secure each Member State, so that no individual Member State is forced to rely only on its own national strength when faced with fundamental security challenges. NATO is the structure in which the targets can be realized. NATO is facing major challenges today, as previously mentioned by both the case-speaker and the representative of Blankenborg. NATO shall primarily guarantee its own members security and independence. The alliance shall then protect the security of the partner countries in Europe, through bilateral partnerships and multilateral cooperation. NATO must be ready to support international society’s efforts to stifle crises or conflicts when they occur – to prevent conflicts from spreading, and to help those involved to resolve the conflict with political instruments rather than military ones. NATO's goal of providing security through deterrence and united defence has not been changed. What's changed is a new security policy image. During the Cold War, defence planning in NATO was concentrated on having enough equipment to defend itself against a possible attack by the Soviet Union and the Warsaw Pact. Today, the European security environment is more uncertain. NATO no longer has a main enemy. Now the member states of the alliance are facing a number of more extensive and undefined trucks. This applies above all to the threat of international terrorism and the spread of weapons of mass destruction. A combination of these two trucks represents the greatest trick. The security policy situation has therefore made it necessary to further develop defence cooperation in NATO. NATO needs to be more relevant, more flexible and adapted to the challenges we face today. The Alliance has adopted a new defence initiative. The aim is to ensure that the alliance can act together in military operations and that Member States renew and update their own military equipment. Because of the new image of treason, NATO has set up new forums for peace. This includes, among other things: through the Partnership for the Peace Programme. It has also developed within the Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council. The establishment of the NATO-Russia Council, with the corresponding parliamentary body, is approaching Euro-Atlantic cooperation. The NATO-Ukraine Commission, with the corresponding parliamentary body, is also a forum created to enhance cooperation and trust between NATO and the partner countries. In Ukraine, one of Europe’s largest countries, NATO is now involved in democratisation processes, anti-corruption work and a transformation of the forces that are adapted to an entirely different period of time. There are no organizations other than NATO in the blink of an eye that have the power to influence e.g. Ukraine, which is not in a process vis-à-vis the EU. It shows the position and meaning of NATO in the democratization of the former Communist states. The decision on an extension during the Prague Summit also led Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia to enter into negotiations on membership of the alliance. These countries are expected to enter NATO in May 2004. Enlargement is important for stability in Europe. The progress of these countries has been demonstrated by the Action Plan for Membership, giving rise to expectations when it comes to the development of stability, democratic institutions and the rule of law also in Croatia, Albania and Macedonia, as I mentioned earlier in Ukraine. In the fight against international terrorism, international cohesion is needed in order to be more fully equipped. At the 2002 Prague Summit, the Alliance adopted a package of measures to protect against terrorism. This pack includes: measures to deal with weapons of mass destruction, assistance to allies if the civilian population is being terrorised, increased intelligence cooperation, improved cooperation with the partner countries and the international community. A concept was adopted for defence against terrorism. This concluded that terrorism can best be reduced by a combination of political, economic, military, legal and military instruments – that is, not just a military strategy, but a recognition that political preventive work and efforts on human rights, economic well-being and a rule of law that works can equally prevent war. Being part of an alliance means that burdens and responsibilities as well as good are distributed among the member countries. Norway must therefore also take an active part in the fight against terrorism. In April, Norway said it was willing to stop with four Norwegian missile torpedo boats to strengthen NATO's anti-terrorist operation in the Western Mediterranean. This was in addition to the submarine KNM Absence, which was already involved in the operation. Norway has shared with special forces and miners in Afghanistan. It costs us to participate in the fight against terrorism, but it would cost us and our descendants even more if we had to stand alone in such situations. What has happened, as many say, is dramatic signs of crisis in NATO, we're going to take as a challenge and not as a sign of the beginning at the end, as the representative Jacobsen almost saw it. I would remind you that the symbol of NATO itself from 1953 shows a circle that symbolizes unity and cooperation, while the compass pink suggests a unified path to a just and lasting peace. In these days of discussions about division in the alliance and about the further future of the alliance, we might have to go back to the symbol of NATO itself. The circle of cooperation and unity has had some cracks in the spring in connection with Turkey and Iraq, but cooperation and unity are still in place. The Christian People's Party has faith in NATO's future!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e782	The Iraq conflict and the split between the United States and several allied NATO countries have created an increased focus on the security policy challenge and on the future of NATO. The centre party is concerned that this serious debate is based on well-considered and sober analysis of the situation. In our opinion, nothing other than NATO can guarantee our collective security. The world is in a break-up period, and the security policy image appears to be unstable. The debate on what this new picture of conflict means for us in Norway and our security policy future is important and has gained momentum in the sails. But we should also be aware that this debate is being used by actors who want to doubt the security policy choices as Norway per. Today, we've been betting on it. There is no doubt that 60 years of Atlantic cohesion has been put to the test. You could say you're in a phase where the relationship is both tested and redefined. The Iraq war has challenged both cooperation and reaction patterns in international policies. But I'm convinced that NATO can withstand the shocks that the organization is now going through. Some believe that the international behaviour of the Bush administration should lead to the United States being pushed out of cross-Atlantic cooperation structures and that the EU should be built as a balancing force for the United States at the expense of NATO. In my opinion, this is a short cut. It is a fact that today the world has one superpower. This superpower today has an administration that in many contexts makes many of us concerned because of its political course. But it would be a totally flawed strategy by us to isolate the United States; it would help build up competitors. What we have to do is include the United States more closely in cooperation structures. We also have to dry out when the U.S. crosses the line. Norway has a position to play a constructive role in reducing the tension that has arisen in NATO. The conduct of President Bush in international policy has provided the EU's supporters with water on the mill. Their reasoning is that we need a strong EU that can represent a counterweight to the United States. The EU must become a major force in line with the United States – not just a major power, but a military power, if we are to follow the logic of some on the Yes side. If the EU is to be able to balance the United States as a military force, it is about radical action in relation to both the commitment to the defence budgets of the European States and, not least, the willingness to invest huge sums of money in technology and capacity building. It must be the case of the European Union. I can't see it's decent. It surprises me that especially yes-people on the left-hand side of Norwegian politics have used this superpower argument as offensively as they have done in some contexts. A balancing superpower in the United States also requires a common foreign and security policy to be brought together in the EU's national states. NATO will pass and will enter a phase of redefinition. The US's new security policy strategy, based on preventive attacks, combined with NATO's increased ambitions through the Out of Area, can be a mixture that makes NATO a more offensive alliance than most had imagined. This needs to be discussed seriously in the future, both in Norway and in NATO bodies. Norway must not, in my view, stand in the way of what is perceived as a more offensive NATO. Rather, we should concentrate on securing our own areas and thereby meeting a central commitment to alliance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e797	I think Haakon Blankenburg is very right in that very much of what it is natural to discuss in a debate like this, we have been through a number of times, not least in the debate on NATO enlargement. So I'm going to limit myself to some marginal comments. The first is to express agreement with Enoch when he says that it is of course important not to build Europe up in any rivalry with the United States. It is an expression of an important Norwegian position, namely that the important thing for us is to bring together our European allies and the North Americans and ensure that such rivalry does not occur. I find in many ways that much of what he said there was in a benevolent contrast to what his successor said on a few occasions, where I, among other things, said. have been punished for not being European enough in part of my reactions to international policies. But I don't have that much in many ways. Then there is a debate about NATO in crisis. That debate I have attended on many occasions over quite many decades, and it is clear that NATO now has challenges, and we have had challenges in the past and got through them well. But there is every reason to stress that the security policy situation is now different from that it has been in the past, with new and different challenges. It takes NATO seriously, and there has been a staggering lack of attention in Norway about two important recent decisions. One is that NATO is involved in the management of ISAF 4, which I think is very sensible and correct in the interests of development in Afghanistan. But that means that once NATO has done that, you can't leave such an important problem until it's also solved. It's an expression of a long-term commitment on the part of Western nations that there's every reason to put thick lines under; this is an important decision with quite far-reaching consequences. A similar decision has been taken when Poland is now assisted in their mission in Iraq, and both of these are evidence that NATO is taking a new role. I would also mention that, as I said in the previous debate, during NATO's last Council of Ministers meeting, I was among those who spoke in favour of NATO studying the possibility of a role in the Middle East if the parties wanted NATO to play such a role. It's NATO well capable of doing, they have the systems in place and will therefore be able to provide an, I think, important contribution to that conflict. So I need to say a few words about the NATO-Russia Council, partly to stress the importance of it, and partly to stress that this far on the way seems to be a successful cooperation where concrete results have already been achieved. But at the same time, I must say that we have probably not come to terms with our desire to make nuclear pollution an important part of the NATO-Russia Council, and then from the point of view that the NATO-Russia Council cannot add value to the work. I'm not sure of that reasoning at all, but it puts a big challenge on Norway in terms of defining the added value. But for the time being, we haven't made it that way. Then I have read with interest the comments of the Progress Party, in the sense that I must disappoint Høglund by saying that I have not intended to follow his advice by making it as complicated as possible for the EU to draw on NATO resources. I believe, on the contrary, that I would like to stress that now NATO and the EU have come to work that makes it possible to go well together, and I would like to remind you that the European Union is in many ways our European allies – plus/minus a few countries, but that is our European allies we are talking about. And it's important to make sure that all the countries that are members of NATO are able to get together in that context as well. If you were to take Højlund’s view into account in its logical context, I understand that he is in many ways opposed to the EU operation in Macedonia, in which Norway is now also involved, operation Concordia, which was taken over from NATO. The EU also took over the police operation in Bosnia from the UN, which I believe was a sensible decision. Norway is there, too. And I hope that Höglund does not draw his views so far that he is willing to draw practical consequences from it. I think it's important for Norway to be here, and I think that, in good agreement with NATO, ways have been found to pass these operations on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e812	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e816	It is other than the Progress Party that also believes that this is a type of conflict – and at least a discussion – in relation to what things should look like in the future. Since the Prague Summit last year and until the Madrid meeting not long ago – where I understand that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was also present – can the Minister for Foreign Affairs see a change in the relationship between the United States and the EU in a security policy perspective? I am thinking of the reports that the United States wants to slow down the takeover of NATO’s role in Bosnia – whether it is correctly perceived, and in the event of Norway’s position in such a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e821	I do not think there is any basis for saying that there is any change in the American attitude towards the EU and the EU's ambitions to be able to play a role. But there is something quite different than what to do concretely in some situations, and I fully agree that before the EU takes over in Bosnia, it must, of course, be discussed and wanted in NATO. So it's about having the sequences in the right order. But there is something quite different than the fundamental idea that Europeans should also be able to cooperate more closely to take more of a responsibility, which has not least been an American wish over a long period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e826	It says in the message: ‘The development over the year has given new impetus to cooperation in NATO.’ However, at the last Madrid summit, Iraq, Afghanistan and the Middle East were on the map. How does the Minister of Foreign Affairs view it in relation to Norwegian sovereignty and resources as one also needs to be there, that a long time is busy with things that are far from what should perhaps occupy Norway the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e831	The representative Jacobsen reminded me of an important point I should have made in my speech, namely that the meeting of the Council of Ministers at the beginning of June was a bid for all NATO members to put the conflict from this winter behind and stand together and work forward, not least in Iraq. It was a very good meeting based on the desire to gather the forces, and it is important to say to the Stortinget. When it comes to the issue of sovereignty, I'm not quite sure what he's doing, but I guess it's about the debate on how much resources we're going to spend here at home in our neighbourhoods and how much we're going to spend out there. To that is to say that I will warn very strongly against making a difference out of this. In the NATO alliance, solidarity and mutual assistance have been the whole basic idea. The fact that we want other people's help for us is a basic idea behind our membership. This means that when the tasks are concrete out there, Norway must also contribute out there — unless we get solidarity back when we really need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e838	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e841	There have been some strong views in this debate about what the EU should do and, in particular, what the EU should not do. The interesting thing is that the views come from those who are most concerned about Norway not being there. Höglund even went so far in his main post that he asked the question: Should we, i.e. Norway, accept that the EU is acting like this and so? There is well reason to believe that EU cooperation, like most other cooperation in this world, places a little more emphasis on what the participants think than what the non-participants think. Of course, those sitting on the stands have full freedom to applaud or pipe, but they have now once chosen to stand outside and can't choose at certain points to intervene and tell the others what to do or not to do. The representative, Enoksen, asked us to isolate the United States. I think Norway's capacity in this way is limited. But it must also be allowed to remember the historical perspective. Today, when we are in a situation where the EU builds up a common security and foreign policy, under great difficulties and with many seas, and when the EU is able to undertake to a certain extent tasks such as: in Macedonia, is not the result of a desire to isolate the United States or make cooperation across the Atlantic more difficult. In fact, throughout the post-war period, the United States has done its utmost to tell the European countries that they must take on increasing responsibility for the security of their own continent. It is the United States that has constantly begged Europeans to take this responsibility. One must have such a historical perspective on this that it is not possible to be disturbed that, in a Norwegian debate, individual actors might wish to take a view that now there is a choice between dealing with the United States or dealing with Europe. I find it very difficult to understand the logic of the Progress Party's comment in the position, which is, in fact, based on the fact that there is no need for coordination between the EU's efforts and NATO's efforts, despite the fact that there are essentially the same countries participating in both contexts. The consequence of that position would be that the EU, in order to follow its ambitions to take greater responsibility for security on the European continent, would actually need to build up a capacity that is parallel to NATO's capacity, and which would then necessarily have to go at the expense of the efforts of the European NATO countries in NATO. I simply cannot understand that the Progress Party can seriously believe that this would be desirable. That would be the safest way to weaken both NATO and EU cooperation. We are in a completely new political situation in Europe. In brackets, most people, with the exception of SV's spokesman, have probably found that the Kekkonen is dead, and that it is even a few years ago. Today’s picture shows that, in our northern corner of Europe, we are now in the paradoxical situation that of the countries around the Baltic Sea, the three Baltic countries will have full membership both in the EU and in NATO from next year. So far, Denmark is the only Nordic country in the same position, because we have got the strange architecture that we have two Nordic countries outside NATO cooperation, Sweden and Finland, despite being indirectly integrated into it through integration with the EU, and then we have two Nordic countries that are members of NATO but are outside the EU, Iceland and Norway. For me, it is quite obvious that the opportunities offered by the Nordic countries, including Norway, to further develop the security architecture in Europe depend on the full participation of all of us in both NATO and the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e854	The Progress Party does not have a general need to condemn either the EU as an organisation or to defend the EU. What we're trying to do is go in, look at the different elements, and say something if we think this is a good idea or a bad idea. We are a party to – correctly perceived – an intermediate position, and have a neutral position towards the EU, as opposed to other parties, who may need to say something about the EU being a good invention, and so also that everything the EU is doing is good. That's not how we see it. Defence and security cooperation in the EU will, as we see it, no matter how you set it up, duplicate and copy some of the thinking on which NATO is founded. We have thus come to the conclusion that this is not in our interest. Nor is it in our interest to choose to be a member. Should we allow ourselves to comment on what is happening in the EU? Of course, we should, especially when this has implications for NATO, where we are a member, and where we have something to say. And the EU as a defence policy player is very small without the necessary agreements and capacity support from NATO. So we can be in the driver's seat in this development, and we have to dry up some choices. To bet on two horses in Europe, the European Union and NATO, we think is unfortunate. The importance of NATO as the leading actor we believe in. That's where we want to say something with strength. That is why we believe that we are doing ourselves a bear service by being passive spectators, or even tacitly supporting it during a development in the EU where the EU is gaining an ever-increasing role in this area – and using NATO's capacity, NATO's military planning offices are using, without even possibly having access to the same premises, when they are operated under EU law. This will put Norway on the sideline to a degree that I think we will later have to see as unfortunate and unhappy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e865	The representative pays brings this about with the EU, and in fact also the economic one. But first of all, with the Kekkon. People may well have done something good – and can be a follow-up – while they were alive, even if they are dead today. It's not impossible. So to this, the relationship between economics and security policy. I guess that's where the dog is buried. The United States may, for economic reasons, have objectives other than those of Europe. If we get a development in which the EU gets its EU army, the ESDP, it can be what will weaken NATO in the long term, where NATO becomes absolutely without tasks as regional administrators. But it might be an attempt to compensate for NATO going beyond its actual territory, even though NATO – like Warsaw – should have been buried.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e874	As we approach the end of the debate, it's tempting to think about what you've heard this last hour. First, a little comment on the representative Jacobsen's response to my reply earlier, which focused on the alternative to security policy SV will be included, where reference is made to how Sweden and Finland have handled it. Now I guess I don't think the representative Jacobsen wants to go back to the cold war. If you look at how the two countries have behaved today, they are at least both members of the EU. But that might not have been Jacobsen's solution for us. I would rather agree with Blankenborg that I had looked forward to some clarification of the SV's position in today's debate. The expectation was even more heightened after reading the class struggle earlier this week, where there was a two-page look-up where a member of the SV's defense committee says that now it's time to think about our relationship with NATO. There are several things in NATO's new development that are of interest, and maybe not least the Out of Area concept that Jacobsen is taking a special distance from here today. All in all, I have to say that after hearing the representative Jacobsen here today, I actually feel more unaware of what security policy SV offers the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e883	First, a little comment to our common friend Kekkonen. I'm not going to make any attempt to dig him up again, nor dig up any of the dogs that had to be buried here or there. But since Jacobsen used the bold picture, it must be allowed to remember the story also at this point. Finland’s choices at that time — to put it as an understatement — were very limited, very limited. And I might agree with Jacobsen, if that's what he was trying to say, that it calls for admiration how you could take advantage of the small space of action you had. But now this is a bit behind us, and today Finland's position is quite different, as it is known, because Finland has been very active and without any reservations of any kind behind its neutrality and is a member of the EU, and even one of the tone-setting members of the EU. Like the representatives of Vallersnes and Blankenborg, I have to say that after this debate, it is even more difficult to have an almost clear picture of what SV's foreign and security policy options are. It must be recognized that it is non-existent. The new foreign and security policy debate we are calling for could have been an idea if you were serious about it and even made a substantial contribution by sketching an alternative to the foreign and security policy we have led and leading. So a little comment to Morten Højlund's last post. He said that it is not desirable to have a boat – and in terms of the further development of EU and NATO cooperation. He must be allowed to say that. The problem for Høglund and the Progress Party is simply that the overwhelming majority of our cooperation countries in NATO believe the opposite, and therefore participate fully, both in the EU context and in the NATO context. The problem with the non-opposition of Høglund and the Progress Party in the EU case is that it inevitably leads to where Høglund said he would not, namely that Norway is on the sideline. But that is the position we ourselves – or some of us, including the Advance Party – have chosen actively. You've wanted to be on the side line. I guess that's the big dilemma of choosing that, you can't count on politics more than in other areas to get both bag and bag. You can't choose to sit on the sideline and at the same time insist on being fully meaningful about what's going on out on the track, where you're not there. It is clear that it limits Norway’s influence in the further development of work within NATO, that we do not participate in cooperation in the EU. It gives us a significant handicap, compared to most of the countries we are with in NATO cooperation. And at least you have to be willing to look in your eyes and admit that it is a cost that you have actively wanted, and that we also have to be prepared to pay the bill for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e894	Bear Jacobsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e898	First of all, with Out of Area Forces: SV also sees that it can be beneficial to have NATO involved in U.S. operations. Kosovo's experience was quite clear, NATO has actually better known as Target Research. One cares, for example. little bit more about investigating what a bomb is. So that NATO can have a damping effect on the United States, is quite clear. But when we now see that the defense is being transformed into favor of escapades far away, perhaps even without a UN mandate, we must dare to think new. The resolution of Norway's traditional security policy line is not done in one day, but at least we have started that debate. We're willing to take him. And we don't see it as a process of renationalizing defences in different countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e905	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3216]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e921	When there is a unanimous opinion of the Foreign Affairs Committee on the consent to the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Criminal Justice on Corruption of 27 January 1999 with additional protocols, it is not least an expression of the importance attached to more active intervention in the fight against corruption. The Committee therefore agrees that the European Council Convention represents an important innovation in the fight against corruption and welcomes the fact that the Convention will lead to harmonisation and strengthening of the criminal law of the parties in this area. The Additional Protocol also clarifies the application of the Convention to arbitrators and members of the jury. In this context, the Committee has acceded to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ recommendation that Norway ratify the Council of Europe Convention on Criminal Justice on Corruption and sign the Additional Protocol. At the same time, the Committee is aware that the Ministry of Justice has also agreed to this and that the necessary changes to the laws have been promoted to the Grand Duchy by the law amending the criminal law, etc., Ot.prp. No 78 for 2002–2003, which was dealt with here in the Chamber earlier this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e932	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3216]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e940	The size goes to voting. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-13.ana.ud77e1011	There is no record.
