ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e141	The representative of Silja Ekeland, who has been on leave, has once again taken up his seat. The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Pål Berberfjord, has taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: by the delegation of the Council of Europe delegation to the 2003 session of the Parliamentary Assembly, Part 1, in Strasbourg, an application has been submitted, signed by the Deputy Head of the Delegation, Mr Øystein Djupedal. The application concerns the period from 27 January to 29 January of the representatives of Olav Akselsen, Øystein Djupedal, Synnøve Konglevoll, André Kåkkestad, Per Erik Monsen and Elsa Scarbøvik from the representative of Raymond Robertsen on leave from 27 January to 13 February to take part, after an invitation, in a study tour with the International Visitor Programme, to the United States from the representative Per Ove Width on leave from 27 January to 29 January to take part in meetings under the auspices of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, in the United States, On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Akershus County: Harald EspelundFor Finnmark County: Åshild Karlstrøm RundhaugFor Hordaland County: Rita TveitenFor Troms County: Knut Werner HansenFor Sør-Trøndelag County: Jørund LeknesFor Vestfold County: Vidar Andersen, Inger Møll and Per Arne Olsen3. Åshild Karlstrøm Rundhaug, Vidar Andersen and Inger Møll are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for the representatives Raymond Robertsen, Per Ove Width and Elsa Skarbøvik respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e230	Harald Espelund, Åshild Karlstrøm Rundhaug, Rita Tveiten, Knut Werner Hansen, Jørund Leknes, Vidar Andersen, Inger Møll and Per Arne Olsen are present and will take the seat. The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e235	On behalf of Per Erik Monsen, Lodve Solholm and myself, I would like to propose new and simpler rules for the free introduction of luggage, so that the quota for meat and meat products is set at 10 kilograms without being covered by cheese and feed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e240	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e257	The purpose of the Value Creation Programme for Food Production is to ensure a viable agricultural and rural environment. The programme aims to support good models for the development and production of new products, good ideas for production development, production and marketing, and other measures to produce and sell products that increase local and regional value creation, built on Norwegian raw materials. When former Minister of Agriculture Bjarne Håkon Hanssen launched the value creation programme, it was well received throughout the country, and many are working on good projects. Norwegian Farmers’ and Small Farmers’ Teams have been an active driver of the programme, and from that team this is seen as a very important contribution to ensuring future agricultural production throughout the country. In Norway, we have rich food traditions and a food culture developed in every country across the country. We can already see that these peculiarities are striking, and that consumers like to pay more for the niche products than for the products that are mass-produced. I think we can just see the beginning of this now. Now that I'm dealing with this in an interpellation, it's not to attack agricultural cooperation in any way. I am of those who regard the activities of the agricultural cooperative as one of the means of ensuring the production and delivery of agricultural products, wherever in the country it is taking place. On the other hand, I am concerned that the value creation programme should work as it is supposed to work, i.e. it contributes to increasing local and regional value creation. Here, of course, the agricultural cooperative must be able to participate as an actor or in cooperation with the local actors. This has also contributed to agricultural cooperation, for example: through its commitment to the recognised Thulefjord products in Bodø. What concerns me, on the other hand, is that as a member of the Business Committee, I get quite a lot of frustrated input from niche companies that are in the process or are in the start-up phase. These are active entrepreneurs who are struggling with what they see as bureaucratic legislation, or accepting that the production they are going to be producing is a real value creation and not just a value-capture, as some have claimed it is. I take such signals seriously, and I actually don't think we're going to ignore such recordings from actors trying to get something out of Building Norway. These are people who are resident and, most often, are already engaged in agricultural production in the rural or region they want to establish this niche farm. These are actors who have producers of raw materials in their backs and who regard the niche company as important for their future operation. I would like to mention a few examples of companies that I have been in contact with, each of which has encountered bureaucratic problems that have limited their profitability or their ability to get into operation. In the Lyngen in Troms, Solvik Gård AS, which is a community of farmers and reindeers, is in the process of establishing such an enterprise, but after a long time and with thorough documentation, these actors feel that they have not come a step closer to an establishment than when they began, and they begin to run tired. According to the establishments, the installation to be built is EU-approved and has received all such details in place. They themselves believe that thorough assessments of raw material access, market and economics indicate that the company is alive and well and that this will strengthen the producers of raw materials in the region. The problem is that they do not get through at SND, and that they are still getting new questions and demands for documentation that they think have been fully documented before. So they claim that they don't get a SND award or a discount, but only new questions and demands. This means that the actors need to spend a lot of money on this part of the job, and that they lose important time to get started. They also claim that they are given bursting signals about what the value creation program can do, and about, for example, the program. may be combined with BU loans and grants. My question is: what causes such problems to arise, and what can be done to enable such active actors to move forward without excessive economic losses and costly time? I also want to mention another example. In the fall, the nutrition committee was visiting Sogn and Fjordane. Here we visited Bakke Gardsmat in Holmedal. This is an ongoing family business producing niche products that are highly desirable and widely recognised. The holding is established on Hille Gård, but despite the fact that the plant contains a modern slaughterhouse, the animals must be transported from this farm to another slaughterhouse for slaughter. This is because the company has not yet received its approval for this small but completely modern slaughterhouse. According to the owner, all requirements for the standard at the slaughterhouse have been complied with. This lack of clarification of approval creates both practical problems and significant financial losses for the company. The company also plans to get a car that can carry animals that have been killed from other farms to the slaughterhouse, but this has not been clarified either. Even in the case of emergency slaughter, such a solution cannot be used today because of a lack of authorisation. Here, too, there are cracking signals from the authorities responsible for the approval, and it is considered that the lack of clarification is mainly due to a lack of will. I hardly think it's just me and other representatives in the nutrition committee who have received such enquiries and such examples presented. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether these are signals that he also gets. Are there too many people who are struggling with funding and legislation in the context of the value creation programme, or is that not the case? Can such start-up difficulties undermine the purpose of the value creation programme so that the objectives cannot be achieved? It's a sincere wish that we still have living and producing communities in this country, and that's what was the whole purpose of the value creation program. I hope that this objective will stand firm, and that the Council of State will soon take action to clarify whether this is the case as these examples show, and possibly put in place the measures necessary to correct the situation. An old saying says that there is no smoke without fire. I have the confidence in the people of our villages and in our minded farmers that they don't construct problems that aren't there. That's why I think it's an obligation for us politicians to get the goals of the value creation programme back on track if there's something that's failed in some of the joints. That's why I meet the Government's clear response and strong commitment, so that we can move on with this important project for Building Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e295	The background to the Value Creation Programme for Food Production is the treatment of St.melding by the Stortinges. No 19 for 1999–2000 on Norwegian agriculture and food production. The Ministry of Agriculture followed up the position of the Committee on Agriculture in 2000, where it was set at 100 million. kr to a Norwegian food production value added programme for 2001. The value creation programme for food was thus initiated by Stortinget after a big message from the Bondevik I government. The programme is planned for a 10-year time horizon. Phase I has just been completed, and I am therefore just now in the process of evaluating the results and, in the light of these, setting a stage for Phase II, which will last from 2003 to 2005. The main objective of the Value Creation Programme for Food Production is to contribute to higher value creation both in primary production and processing. In Phase I, this has resulted in emphasis being placed on facilitating primary producers and food businesses developing high-quality specialised foods for sale in high-payability markets. The objective is to increase the value creation of primary producers. At the same time, it is important to see the Value Creation Programme for Food Production in conjunction with all the measures and instruments put in place by the Ministry of Agriculture to maximise the value creation of agriculture based on the total resources of rural areas. Examples of such measures are the Structural Development Funds, Competition Strategies for Norwegian Food and the Value Creation Programme for Forest and Wood. The programme has been operational for two years. It has been organised with a steering group composed of representatives from the farmers’ organisations, the food industry, the regional agricultural management and entrepreneurs in the industry. SND has had the coordinating and executive responsibility for the value creation programme. In this work, SND has set up a programme secretariat in Oslo to assist and coordinate the implementation of the programme towards SND regional offices. The Ministry of Agriculture considers it appropriate that the SND should also be responsible for the further operation of the programme, not least on the grounds that they are also responsible for the other economic development funds under the Ministry of Agriculture. The establishment of the Value Creation Programme for Food Production placed great emphasis on the follow-up to the objectives of the Programme. In this context, Social and Business Research AS was committed to evaluating the implementation of Phase I of the Programme. They say the following: ‘The project portfolio after the first year of operation seems to reflect far on the way to reflect what was meant by VSP food. The Programme has contributed to the launching of innovative projects involving associations of primary producers and food businesses.’;» According to Societal and Business Research, SNF, the value creation programme has created a total of six jobs per year. in other words, approximately a million. 130 jobs in 2001 and where similar results are expected for 2002. In this area, I would like to stress that this is a very good result in relation to what SND can refer to for other similar schemes that they manage. In some contexts it has been argued that support from the programme is difficult for the holder alone or with other farmers. In establishing the Value Creation Programme for Food Production, it was decided in principle that the target audience for the programme’s commitment to innovation and business development are associations of primary producers, producer networks and food businesses cooperating with primary producers. This decision includes, inter alia: based on the fact that the Value Creation Programme for Food Production is part of the overall supply of instruments aimed at innovation in rural areas and that in cases where there is one applicant, this could be financed through the use of farm-oriented rural development funds. The question of the role of the major actors, in particular the role of cooperative organisations, is important. It has not been the intention of the programme to support normal product development. I want to focus on the fact that their participation in the programme must benefit the small operators and primary producers, among others. by contributing to the opening up of new markets, transfer of competences and through increased producer prices. Of the applications submitted to the programme, two main types of projects are identified. Firstly, there are projects in which relatively small actors build everything from scratch. This is often the case with farmers or small food businesses. These often have scarce access to risk capital. Secondly, there are projects linked to large established actors through ownership or close cooperation. Projects linked to existing actors in the industry, in many cases cooperatives, have several advantages, such as: access to competence and production facilities and faster access to the store shelves. An undesirable effect of supporting such projects may be that major players strengthen their position and thus control at the expense of small operators. The programme's starting point is that we want increased value creation in industry and, of course, emphasis has been placed on this when granting support to projects. This may have led to a lack of support for small actors. Priority between what we might call small and large-scale projects is therefore a key challenge in the further development and strengthening of the programme. On the one hand, the major players are more likely to succeed, and on the other hand, the small ones have the greatest financing and competence needs. In any case, an overall objective of the value creation programme’s support will be to contribute to increasing the value creation on the farm, at the primary producer’s level. It's solid. In Phase II, I will focus on improving the procedures for granting support and focusing on the role of the Programme Management Board in the strategic development of the Programme. The new procedures include, inter alia, the following: the decision-making procedures for the Value Creation Programme for Food Production from 2003 shall follow the normal decision-making procedures of the SND. This means, among other things: that regional SND offices will become more involved. I expect these changes to make decision-making processes less bureaucratic, and therefore the processing time for applications is falling. In the past year, in cooperation with the SND, efforts have been made to make visible and systematise barriers that have been pointed out by several founders of smaller food businesses. Measures to reduce or remove these barriers are now under design and will be available through an action plan during the spring. The establishment of new food businesses following this action plan shall be facilitated. In a short time, a Management Board will be appointed for Phase II of the Programme. The new Programme Management Board shall consist of persons with high professional competence and knowledge of industry and the market. It's this that underlies the appointment of the board. In order to avoid confusion of roles and conflicts of interest, there will be no representatives directly from food businesses in the Management Board. Unlike Phase I, the Board of Directors will no longer deal with individual matters. It will work strategically in the development of the Programme and ensure that the Programme is administered in line with its objectives and strategies. In the light of the assessments made by the Programme Board and the independent evaluation, I would ask the new Board to review and revise the Programme's strategies. In order to have an effective and development-oriented governance of the Programme, it is important that it feels ownership of the Programme. I also want the steering group to work to a far greater extent than at present to profile the programme against its environments and society in general. Good measures must be taken, and industry must be enthusiastic. The value added programme for food production shall continue to have the primary objective of contributing to higher value creation both in primary production and processing. Agricultural innovation, particularly related to food production, is an important priority for Norwegian agriculture in the future. We need more legs to stand on. In their evaluation, the SNF states that they recommend a slightly higher risk profile in the programme, which may involve increased focus on small independent producers and in some contexts more immature projects. It is also recommended to further develop marketing efforts towards potential applicants in order to stimulate the development of ideas and to avoid the gradual disappearance of the programme in the amount of instruments. This I think is right, and will be important signals to the new board. From this I believe that the Value Creation Programme for Food Production will be an important contribution to innovation in the industry. To answer specifically some of the questions raised by the interpellant, I would say that with the answer I am now referring to, the documentation of which projects, spread throughout the country, a very large number of small-scale projects, for which funds have been given, there is no basis for reporting the need that interpellant here did, to get the project on rails again. This lives now the way it's supposed to. Now it is very difficult to enter into a specific procedure from the Parliamentary Chair. There is often much more related to concrete things than what may be known, and that is the basis for talking about from this pulpit. Let me say that I have experienced both as Minister of Agriculture and also previously as Minister of Industry and responsible for many SND projects, that there will always be dissatisfied applicants out there. There are often more realities behind this that do not emerge. However, very many small producers are supported by this programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e342	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that the Council of State is clarifying the objective of the value creation programme, but my question is whether this works in practice as we had foreseen. Governments say that the intentions have been followed up, and refer to the results. I am pleased that results can be shown in relation to the programme. But I take the signals that have come from different places in the country and from important districts, as a sign that something must be wrong when you get such recordings. It is the case that everything has to be connected in order to have this increased effect, so that it can be seen. Economics and regulatory practice are crucial to achieving this. I am concerned that people who spend all their capital and all their working time and leisure time on this should not lose heart and give up. The signal power in it can damage this program, in my view, so that we are soon back to the old bulk system again. That is why I am not here and now committed to asking the Council of State to process the case. I am concerned that the Council of State is going to go into and look at the whole of how this works, not only looking at the glossy images and the results that the Council of State here referred to, but also going through and assessing whether the arguments for refusal are present with regard to those who have received these rejections. I am concerned that this will benefit the whole of Bygde-Norway. I would also ask the Council of State to say a little about the legislation for slaughter. State councils were involved in a previous interpellation that applied to mobile slaughterhouses. As far as I can remember, the Council of State then said that we should go through the legislation to see that this could work as smoothly as possible. I want to ask: what has happened to that matter so far, and can we expect that there will be simplifications that also make it easier to do such business in the districts? I'm asking the Council of State to follow up on this. We need all the entrepreneurs and niche producers we can get out in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e353	Let me first say that I think I have a slightly different reality perception than the interpellant. Firstly, he knows that there is a danger that we will go back to the old bulk system again. Yeah, we're in the old bulk system, that's what dominates completely with the big players, and we're at the very beginning able to create a diverse supply of food. These first two years are the first two years of the value creation program where we're doing this, and I think we're going to share this project with the Stoltenberg government. That's why I think that both the interpellant and I are interested that we should not make it more difficult to succeed in this programme, because it is so that the programme has come to a successful start in many ways. There are a number of projects, small projects, around the whole country, which have received money from the project, and which are reported to be well developing a more diverse food supply. It's about, of course, we're going to succeed in that, and a lot more than just the value creation program. It is about general legislation, not least the whole of food law. On the one hand, small food businesses have the same problems as all other companies in terms of legislation, tax rules, form fields and all of this, and, on the other hand, a very comprehensive and difficult-to-reach legislation, which has been partly initiated from Brussels on the food side. So it's kind of twice as difficult to start food businesses. We are working too hard on this in a number of ways, including: through this action plan and, not least, through the new food surveillance system that will be set up from 1 January 2004, which will become much more professional in providing a comprehensive approach to tackling the complexity of many food-side encounters. That's why it's not like there's a danger that we're going back to the bulk system. I think we are starting to create a much more diverse Norwegian agriculture, which must be more than the large national labels with national prescriptions. All credit to Gilde, Tine and Prior – they have an important job to do. But I hope that in the future we will get them many competitors, based on small producers and slightly larger producers, and I think Norwegian consumers want and deserve that. So the question of a mobile slaughterhouse. We know that there are often some concrete things behind the interpellations. It was like we had a corresponding interpellation round of mobile slaughterhouses for a while back, and then there was another concrete project that lay behind us, a project in Hadeland. It's been authorized by us. And I do not conceal that by saying yes to it – against the advice of some professional bodies – we chose to go beyond what EEA legislation allows. It is much more professionally complicated to travel around with a notorious source of infection such as a mobile slaughterhouse than to have an established slaughterhouse where animals are brought in and slaughtered, and thus may have full control of the spread of infection. I think that's easy to understand. But we have said yes to mobile slaughterhouses within reindeer slaughtering, and we have said yes to one in Hadeland. It is pushing the external borders of EEA legislation. I am prepared to have such a flexible attitude also to new projects if it can be defended professionally in relation to our legislation in terms of healthy and safe food for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e364	I am delighted to note that we have started projects that create optimism in Norwegian agriculture. That hasn't been too much of it. I don't think the interpellant has any desire for anything else either, although it was sometimes the case that the problems were underlined more strongly than all the possibilities that lie in the development. I am also very pleased that the very concept of niche production has become a concept that can now be used in the salon. For a long time it has been such that it has just been viewed as a quad to talk about that it is possible to do things differently from what the big actors do. And all of us who sometimes eat elsewhere than at home, see that you can get the same number of calories at a very variable price, but for producers of the food it has almost not been possible to get a higher price even if you have had consumers or buyers who have been willing to pay a higher price. I also fully agree with what the interpellant said, and as the Council of State stressed, that this should not be an attack on agricultural cooperation. There's no reason at all. But there is no doubt that, on the part of Stortinget, we have expressed a rather clear desire to create competition for agricultural cooperation, and it was an impression in the very first phase of this programme that it was the major players who contributed to the lion's lot, even in the case of this programme. At least I have received feedback indicating that this has turned around. The interpellant had met manufacturers who have had problems. I've had the pleasure of talking to people from, for example. Lofotmat, from Grøstad Gris and from Hemsedal Meieri, who just boasts of the SND that it is now turned around on what we saw early in this phase, and provides support for good ideas that seem to stand well on their own. For the sake of order, we will probably also mention that there are enough bureaucratic obstacles here, too, and a piece of legislation that is not uncomplicated, on which the Council of State was involved. It has not been very long since almost the only thing that was on the agenda when discussing food production was food safety, animal diseases and animal welfare, which we will of course continue to discuss. But we probably have to find out, without in any way defending it, that we have a regulatory framework that is bureaucratic – I know that the Council of State is going in the opposite direction – but we need to have a regulatory framework that allows us to have predictability in relation to the fact that we are dealing with biological production, which is not completely unproblematic in a lot of contexts. So the conclusion is, this is a nice measure. It's becoming a success. It's alarming, as I know, that you create six jobs per person. One million. invested crowns. It's not in many industries you can find a corresponding value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e377	It is commendable that the interpellant has addressed the problem of the value creation programme. When the Economic and Social Committee dealt with the agricultural notification, St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000 and the value creation programme for approx. Two and a half years ago, it became, among other things, underlined the importance of removing bottlenecks in order to bring about innovation and skills development related to small scale production and producers and what I would call local entrepreneurs. When the value creation programme was launched with bragging and bram, there should be measures that would contribute to increased diversity and, not least, involve environments that initially did not have their own financial resources for innovation and innovation right up to the finished and saleable product. The objective was not to make this a conversion aid to the cooperatives for increased priority of niche products or to touch on bulk production. At an early stage in this process, some expressed concern that the requirement for a form of connection to the farmer would lead to an advantage treatment for the precisely cooperative enterprises, which have it via their ownership. It is unfortunate if the actors themselves can indirectly influence the way the funds are allocated. Governance is not sound and provides some actors with clear powers of influence that others do not have, as grounds in a regulatory framework. SND manages the funds for the value creation programme but relies on advice from the Programme Management Board. If SND is to maintain its credibility as a professional tool, it must be cleaned up in this context. For the Progress Party, this means that private enterprises can be released without having to form a kind of underlying force to cooperate with cooperatives. The time of the major agricultural monopolies must be over. Button fire must take place, inter alia: take place at the level of the many small promoters across the whole country through sound competition. The most important thing in this process is what the self-employed person is able to create and further develop, preferably together with others, which can contribute to success. If Norwegian manufacturers are to compete, we are not going beyond a conscious commitment to quality at all stages. Even today, many consumers are willing to pay high Norwegian customs duties to obtain foreign quality food. It's a cross of thought. Nevertheless, it is important to be aware that the development of specialities for weekends and parties cannot solve the significant problems of agriculture, but it can provide opportunities for some. The rest of agriculture must also work in a direction that rewards innovation and quality work. We need to develop more robust agriculture in general, with strong competition at all stages of the food value chain.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e392	The value added programme for agriculture is important, yes, I would say that it is very important, because there has to be changes in Norwegian agriculture. And it's in these areas that the appreciation program points to, it's important to get it done. Norway can never be cheaper on large quantities and bulk. I agree with the Minister of Agriculture that this is where we are still. The problem is that it is not fast enough to develop new products. So far, it's been a little bit of a half-hearted strategy. And I'm probably a little surprised that the Minister of Agriculture is so repugnant that people stick to the system when he's Minister of Agriculture, but when others are, there's no way how many problems businesses face. I want us to be a little bit more open on it. Some of the conclusions of the Minister of Agriculture drew, probably also pointed to the need to make this easier. To achieve this, there must be a whole-hearted strategy that must point to the local return of the prize. Necks aren't necessarily small. I would like us to talk more about quality products, because it's about that, and I think it's a much bigger market than what's being used today. I also believe that the market organizations are undervalued. I've already said this from this pulpit, but I repeat that I've tried to play "Miss Detective" sometimes to find out, among other things. Organic products and other products, and I can't find them. So there is too little effort to get this to the consumer once it has been made. Here I think there are many who have to go in themselves, and I don't think the agricultural cooperation has just been the most important drivers to get this up in time. So there's a massive stake here if you're going to raise the volume and get the products to the consumer, so they're going to be bought. The efforts we have must function in such a way that both manufacturers and consumers have to notice it quickly, and it must appear. So the food market is that what we don't see, and what's not being presented very strongly to us, it doesn't have any room. So to the part that concerns slaughterhouses. I very much agree that the focus on food safety is the most important thing. But I would like to remind you that in this context there should also be a focus on animal welfare. It should also count that this is about animals that are transported over very long distances, as well as that there might be some rules that are riding well well for this to be terribly difficult. Then we're glad that SND is now going to take a greater risk in the value creation program. It's absolutely necessary, and that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e403	I think that's right, that's what the interpellant is. mentioning in its first article that product development is to be channelled through agricultural cooperation. Here we have received several nationally attractive brands that have a specialty in the Norwegian food market and among Norwegian consumers. I am thinking of Tine and Gilde – I can also name the Prior – i.e. farmers' eight cooperative organisations that have the power to profile in a very far-sighted way the quality of Norwegian food production. St. Report. No 19 for 1999-2000, as submitted by the Gjønes State Council, was an important initiative, which is now in the process of working. As the Council of State said today, this programme goes over ten years. The start is promising, and progress I look forward to. When it comes to the law that applies to the operation of small-scale processing, I have nothing against the Council of State looking at it. There is one thing in this debate that amazes me, and it is the Progress Party's constant attacks on the cooperative organisations. Here, on the one hand, the Norwegian people are asking to buy cheap food in Sweden, and on the other hand, to attack those who are really effective in the area of Norwegian food processing. I don't understand that logic. I found it very regrettable that one should still attack good Norwegian actors. We had a similar debate like this last year – an interpellation debate that Torstein Rudihagen was going on – that went on some of the things we're talking about now. I am glad that Norwegian operators have managed in such a way to profile the benefits with good Norwegian, safe food.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e420	I think Bjørn Hernæs takes a bit of a hard time when he expects it to be the innovation programme that will help create optimism and confidence in Norwegian agriculture. For my part, I believe that profitability, leisure, professional fellowship and belief in a future in industry in general are far more important than this programme. It is very important that we succeed at the start of the programme. The intent behind the program is good. It shall, as the Council of State said, stimulate higher value creation, niche products and increase the number of legs to stand on, not to undermine the cooperative, but precisely to promote diversity. I think that's necessary. I also believe that there is a great deal of reason to be satisfied with the statement made by the Minister of Agriculture. The objective of phase 2 is considered reasonable. The priority of cooperating producers, the decentralisation of SND decision-making authorities to regional offices and the focus on potential conflicts between large and small producers make sense. The examples of the inter-pellant show that the programme is still well ahead of its proper functioning. It's as the Council of State says, difficult to go into individual matters, but according to the examples given, it sounds like there's still a bit left before you're in the goal of making this simple and relative to avoiding heavy-bore, bureaucratic systems. When the authorities launch programmes like this, it is important that the authorities are a co-player and a driver to succeed and are not perceived as a brake block by those who are going to benefit from this type of programme. I think the Council of State is thinking in the right direction, and the adjustments that now seem to be being made to the programme are going in the right direction. But this is required to be followed closely also by political leadership in the department and from the Stortinget side. For this reason, the Council of State should also carefully consider the reasoning underlying the appointment of a Governing Board responsible for the development of the Programme strategy. In any case, political control over the development of the programme should not be allowed to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e431	I think this has been a good debate. I am particularly pleased that the matter is on the agenda and have been discussed here again in the house. The representative Hernæs says that I focus more on the problems than on the positive sides. Of course, I'm very happy that the program has mostly worked positively. As a member of the nutrition committee, there are few who have tasted as many niche products as what I and my colleagues in the committee have done, and we can sign that there is a lot of creativity around. That's what I want to get even stronger. I don't want too many roadblocks to be faced with as far as the product you want to develop is concerned. However, I have to draw attention to what does not seem to work. I'm the first to see that priorities have to be made. I have not said anything negative about that either. What I'm concerned about is that the founders are being treated in line with the programme's intentions. None of the examples that I have drawn out are about the prioritisation of money, but about how the matter is dealt with, and how the legislation is practised. That's what the examples I've drawn out are about. When this is going to be reviewed, the negative sides on the table too, otherwise the result can't be good. That is what I wanted a debate on. That's what I wanted to get. I perceive the council so that he will go into this. I perceive the signs of simplification and delegation as positive. I still have great faith that this value creation programme will help us to continue to have an active and value-creating agriculture out in District Norway, and that through it we will retain living communities. I am very positive about working with the Council of State and others to find out the problems that seem to exist, and get them solved, so that we can release the entrepreneurs to make the effort that we want them to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e445	I want to say first that I would like to accept that invitation. It is absolutely necessary that the Government, in close cooperation with the Stortinget and the Business Committee, continue to improve this. That is clearly necessary. What I'm afraid of is creating an atmosphere that washes the child out with the bath water, because we actually need all these good bets that we see now, but I feel sure that in that debate that won't be the case. A few figures: So far in the project, 193 measures have been granted. That means 65 pst. of which the applications have been accepted. The average number of applications was 1 million. kr, and it is granted approx. 0.7 million. kr on average. As regards the participation of the cooperative in the project during these two years, the cooperative has received 16,2 pst. of the funds. Only half of it has gone to the cooperative alone. The rest has been linked with private or local stakeholders. So the cooperative has no big total share, even though it's got a very big attention. I very much agree with what the representatives Hernæs and Hedstrøm were about, that this should not be a means that can be seen as a kind of conversion support to the cooperative. Projects implemented with these funds shall not be supported by the value creation programme. Genuine projects shall be related to the purpose of the project. Karin Andersen raised some very interesting questions, which I basically agree with. The main problem for Norwegian agriculture today is that more of the production needs to be shifted to product areas where what we economists call a higher price elasticity, where the price can follow the demand and income trends in society. It does not do the traditional volume and commodity production. It is necessary to add more values to products, more marketing, a history, some environmental values and qualities that make consumers more willing to pay as consumers become more able to pay more. One example I have faith in, which is going to be implemented, and which I myself think can be important, is that in Norway we will in a short time open up to establishing milk production outside the quota system for those who want to process for farm dairies. This means that we can get a much greater diversity of e.g. exciting oysters of different brands, many of which are missing in Norway, which in different ways can contribute not only to local value creation but above all also enrich the supply side of the Norwegian food area. There are many obstacles to this diversity. There's a kind of monopoly culture around a lot of the cooperative. There is a need also for the cooperative – I would like to use this opportunity to say so too – to help them get more competitors, and for small competitors, who increase this diversity. Everybody makes a living on that. We also need to look at the legislation. Let me finally say that we are now working to clean up the management systems. It is necessary, as we have been in this debate. I have understood that it is not Storting's will that everyone should be granted their applications. There shall be a qualified assessment in each case. It also means that the Storting is open to us taking some more risk, and that we can thus risk some more loss in terms of the value creation programme for food. Thank you for the debate, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e462	In the same way. That is the examination of case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e480	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 1653]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e498	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 1653]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e516	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 1653]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e534	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 1653]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e552	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 1653]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e570	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1654]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e588	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1654]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e606	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1654]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e623	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1654]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e645	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1654]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e663	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1654]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e681	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1654]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e698	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1654]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e716	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1655]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e734	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1655]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e752	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1655]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e770	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1655]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e788	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1655]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e796	Let's go to voting. There is no voting theme in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e805	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Central Party, transmitted from the meeting of the Odelstinget on 13 January 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose to wind up today’s system of documented self-control for responsible undertakings and instead to establish a system in which the action holder has the right to engage either the municipality or other independent construction inspector to perform the necessary professional oversight of the quality and performance of the action.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e823	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party of Presidents, Mr Andersen, from the meeting on 13 January 2003 of the Odelstinget meeting: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the simplification committee set up on 15 March 2002 increases the pace of its work and finalises at the end of 2003’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e841	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party of Presidents, Mr Andersen, from the meeting on 13 January 2003 of the Odelstinget meeting: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up guidelines for setting the level of fees for the processing of building materials in the municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e859	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party of Presidents, Mr Andersen, from the meeting on 13 January 2003 of the Odelstinget meeting: ‘The decision asks the Government to make proposals so that, in the event of a refusal of the building application, the applicant may refund the building fee in its entirety.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e877	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party of Presidents, Mr Andersen, from the meeting on 13 January 2003 of the Odelstinget meeting: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the Law on Planning and Building, which are appropriately based on the provisions of the Law as it was before 1 July 1997, if there is no evaluation of the legislative reform by the end of 2003 which clearly demonstrates that the quality of construction has been significantly improved as a result of the 1995 legislative reform.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e895	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party of Presidents, Mr Andersen, from the meeting on 13 January 2003 of the Odelstinget meeting: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a maximum period of 2 weeks for municipalities to submit complaints under the Planning and Building Act to the County Council.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e913	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party of Presidents, Mr Andersen, from the meeting on 13 January 2003 of the Odelstinget meeting: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose a maximum period of 2 weeks for the State to deal with cases where a complaint has been put at risk.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e931	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party of Presidents, Mr Andersen, from the meeting on 13 January 2003 of the Odelstinget meeting: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a clarification in the Planning and Building Act of the type of measures to be defined as simple measures and addressed in accordance with § 95(b) – Simple measures.’ The Labour Party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e951	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party of Presidents, Mr Andersen, from the meeting on 13 January 2003 of the Odelstinget meeting:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e970	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party of Presidents, Mr Andersen, from the meeting on 13 January 2003 of the Odelstinget meeting: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to extend the notification system to include small and simple measures for commercial and private use with gross area up to 300 m2.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e988	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party of Presidents, Mr Andersen, from the meeting on 13 January 2003 of the Odelstinget meeting: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the restoration of the municipal building control system on the construction sites for less private activities such as residential buildings.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e1006	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party of Presidents, Mr Andersen, from the meeting on 13 January 2003 of the Odelstinget meeting: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose to simplify and reduce the number of functions requiring responsibility.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e1024	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party of Presidents, Mr Andersen, from the meeting on 13 January 2003 of the Odelstinget meeting: ‘The Government asks for proposals to reduce the number of classes of measures from 3 to 2.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e1042	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party of Presidents, Mr Andersen, from the meeting on 13 January 2003 of the Odelstinget meeting: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to restore more powers to the action holder so that it can itself be responsible for the application and verification of its own private actions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e1060	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party of Presidents, Mr Andersen, from the meeting on 13 January 2003 of the Odelstinget meeting: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the closure of the central register for the recognition of responsible undertakings and, instead, to facilitate the establishment by the industry itself of a central register of industries in which undertakings are listed on a voluntary basis with their documentary qualifications.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e1078	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party of Presidents, Mr Andersen, from the meeting on 13 January 2003 of the Odelstinget meeting: ‘The decision requests the Government to make proposals to grant exemptions for a period of 10 years.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e1096	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 13 January 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide for a temporary authorisation of use within one week.’ The President expects SV to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e1116	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 13 January 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to lay down legislation with effect from 1 July 2004 at the latest for the cancellation or reduction of construction fee in the event of a breach of time limits.’; The Labour Party and the Progress Party have stated that they support the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e1146	The President proposes that the notification be sent to the family, culture and administrative committee. Carl I. Hagen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27.ana.ud1282e1151	The notification of State supervision is a very complex matter which could have been dealt with in different committees and in different ways. The usual thing has been that there has been a big deal for each supervision, which has been discussed by the Scientific Committee for that supervision here in Stortinget. Now there's a lot of supervision, and there are general things that are common to supervision. However, I would be allowed to say that when I support the President's proposal, it is because there is no obstacle to the family, cultural and administrative committee, if so, for example. would like to know about the views of the Committee on Transport regarding the Air Traffic Control or the Post and Telecommunications Authority, which the Committee on Transport normally maintains and has more knowledge of, so as to enable the Committee on Transport to produce a document if it so wishes. Because I think it would be a little strange if the expert committees were to be cut off from making an opinion on their «own» supervision. This applies to areas where they usually have much more competence and knowledge, such as: on the impact on users and the oversight functionality of those users. So I am not making any other proposal, but I would ask the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administration to have the other expert committees involved in the communication make their views known in this position.
