ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e56	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes to the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e65	Proper use of medicinal products is an important element of the overall health policy. It also means that patients should have access to the most effective medicinal products. This is a significant challenge for the professional bodies responsible for evaluating the available medicinal products, for those who are to authorise their use and for the Stortingen which is to grant the money. Although Norway is not at all at the top of drug consumption, the growth in expenditure on medicinal products has been well above the overall expenditure growth, and this needs to be addressed by both magnification and government. This matter is essentially a matter of providing legal support for the introduction of a system of reimbursement contracts between the State and the pharmaceutical companies, as well as a clarification in the pharmaceutical law on index prices and legal remedies to finance the public costs of selling non-pharmacetic prescription-free medicinal products through fees and charges. However, an overall committee has entered the setting on the central sides of the entire blue-receptor system. The bladder prescription system is important in the prescription and therefore the use of medicinal products. The Committee considers that there is a need for a broad and comprehensive review of all aspects of the BIP, ranging from procedures and regulatory provisions for the admission of medicinal products into the BIP to medical prescription practice. The Committee expresses the view that in many cases it takes too long to get good and cost-effective medicine into the blue prescription system. The Committee also states that our current procedures for easy entry of the Stortinget into a kind of case-handling role on medical matters concerning whether or not to include medicinal products in the prescription scheme. A large majority therefore endorses a joint proposal for a broad and comprehensive review of the BIP. The minority, the Progress Party and the Center Party, promote their own proposal, which is more specified, but I assume that the elements they mention are precisely conditions that must be within a broad and comprehensive review of the blue recipe system. The entire Committee is concerned that effective and cost-effective medicinal products should be made available to patients as soon as possible. The majority, all except the Progress Party and the Center Party, are in principle in favour of the system of reimbursement contracts because we believe that this can be both a neat way to ensure patients' proper medicines and a way to control costs and avoid becoming case handlers at Stortinget. But we're clarifying a number of aspects that need to be emphasized in such a system. Of course, it is the doctors who prescribe medicinal products and must ensure that patients are properly treated. It is important that doctors familiarise themselves with and prescribe under the prescribed conditions. It is also important for the Ministry to consider measures that are more responsible to doctors for cost implications than at present. Proper use of medicinal products is also a matter of information, and the Committee emphasises the need for authorities to take greater responsibility, while the pharmaceutical industry has an unconditional responsibility for correct information. Quality good information will have an impact on the prescription practices of doctors, thereby influencing whether the terms of the reimbursement contracts entered into are maintained. Even if the rightholder, i.e. the medicinal product company must face a financial risk by prescribing medicinal products to medicinal products other than those for which the medicinal product is intended and agreed, penalties must be proportionate to the liability of the rightholders for sale in excess of the contractual volume. The arrangements must be clear on circumstances in which it may be appropriate to require repayment because the volume of sales exceeds the contractual level. An overall committee endorses the amendment of the medicinal product law § 6, third paragraph, in order to avoid any doubt as to the legal basis for the calculation of the index price based on the actual selling price of the medicinal product supplier. The Committee also endorses the legal framework for the establishment of fees for the placing on the market of prescription-free medicinal products outside pharmacies and the collection of an annual fee for the placing on the market of such products.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e86	I'll try to make it up to the President of Storting and be brief in my post. I agree with the rapporteur's comments and I point out that this is a legal base that has the background to a decision on the 2003 state budget. The purpose at the time was to find an opportunity to offer patients who need it, Actos and Avandia. However, the scheme has a much more general justification, namely that in the future there will be a number of medicinal products that are innovative, very expensive and that provide very good results for a limited group of patients. By means of reimbursement contracts, the State and the various pharmaceutical companies can ensure that these medicines are made available more quickly to patients, while at the same time controlling that one does not drive with Rolls-Royce where one can cope with a Volvo – to use a picture. It is important to stress that a reimbursement contract will be a reasonable instrument for various reasons. Firstly, a reimbursement contract is not a decision. It would be a voluntary matter for the pharmaceutical company to conclude such a contract with the State. On the other hand, it is for the individual pharmaceutical company to provide estimates of the sales expected in the reimbursement application. Through its marketing, the pharmaceutical company has a significant influence on the actual nature of the sale. In conclusion, I would like to say that we support the proposition with the changes that we have agreed with the majority. I am very pleased that all parties outside the Progress Party and the Center Party support this. I am also pleased that we get a complete case for Stortinget to the autumn that is going through this area. In this year's budget, expenditure in this area has grown by 700 million. kr. It gives us considerable challenges. It is important that we also have a critical look at the best use of public money for the benefit of patients in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e99	The Government is now given a majority to establish a system of reimbursement contracts for the admission of medicinal products for reimbursement. An arrangement of these types of contracts may, to a large extent, be reasonable if the aim is to obtain access to the best medicinal products as quickly as possible and that there was agreement between the individual actors in the field of medicinal products on how this system should be practised. The current assumptions that should be the basis for the introduction of reimbursement contracts are then until those degrees are not met, in the opinion of the Progress Party. As is the case today with the majority’s decision, this is not a matter which has as its starting point that patients should have rapid access to new and better medicines, but rather a system that aims to reduce State expenditure for that very purpose. There is reason to fear that a widespread use of this type of contract, with a certain number of conflicts about the content and performance of the contract, could actually lead to a subsequent — and therefore worse — access to the best medicinal products because the parties will stand on their own and will not take the initiative to be accommodating, for economic reasons. There is reason to believe that the Norwegian authorities will add to an extensive use of reimbursement contracts. The National Medicines Agency is currently focusing on the patient groups to be reimbursed their costs on the basis of the current criteria for this type of issue. However, one has seen fairly often that the Ministry does not follow the recommendations of the State Medicines Agency, most likely from a budgetary perspective. However, what is indicated as a reason for a request for reimbursement contracts is that a person wants to ensure that the doctors actually print out the individual medicinal products only to those who meet the criteria laid down by the State Medicines Agency in their recommendations. However, this is only to be seen, that is the case. In this context, it is worth noting what an overall committee is saying in the setting: ‘The Committee also has no points of view to say that medicinal products are prescribed to some extent in addition to those resulting from prescription conditions.’ What really worries me, however, is that the majority of the committee asks the ministry to consider measures that are more responsible to the doctor than at present for the cost consequences of the prescription. The doctors shall, in the opinion of the Progress Party, have one main focus for the eye, and that is the patient's woe and well. If a person wants to focus on the drugs, this must be done through dialogue and information, not by forcing a prescription practice to be imposed on the country’s economic savings motive. An overall review of the complete blue prescription system will be decided for the next year. It is clear from the point of view of the Progress Party that this new mechanism of reimbursement contracts would not be necessary until that evaluation had been carried out. As regards the reimbursement of the two medicinal products, which are the very starting point for this case to arise, the anti-diabetic medicinal products Actos and Avandia, these may be refunded according to § 9 at no extra cost to the State, as these medicinal products result in reduced use of insulin, cf. suspension of the State Medicines Agency. On this basis, the Progress Party will vote against Section 6 new fifth paragraph. The party opposed the introduction of an index price system in the field of medicinal products. The majority, however, chose to do this against the vote of the Progress Party. In the drafting of the proposal, the Progress Party has chosen not to take a rematch in this area, as what has been presented here for proposals for amendments is to be regarded as mere clarifications in the law. The Progress Party will therefore vote in favour of this today. In the case of the medicinal products Actos and Avandia, it was actually agreed in the last year's budget that these should be refunded by the State. This has not been done despite the agreement that was concluded. I think it is a broken situation that has arisen, when an agreement has been reached on this and it has not been followed up by the government and the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e123	The President assumes that the representative Nesvik will make a proposal from the Progress Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e126	I do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e131	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the proposal to which it was referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e134	The budget adopted today in the United Kingdom means that next year, expenditure on medicines will be calculated in excess of DKK 8 billion – DKK 8 085 000 000 to be accurate. That, of course, is a significant sum. This means that it is right to be concerned that the funds allocated to government budgets should be used in a targeted way that maximises the impact on the population. SV believes that this is not the case today. I note that the Progress Party is concerned about guidelines to doctors regarding prescribing practices and their economy. I think it is right to be concerned about prescription practices, because many medicines have very high costs and are prescribed on relatively liberal terms. Specialists have pointed out that the pharmaceutical industry also facilitates the entry into the market of new, more expensive medicinal products and shifts old, low-cost, tried-and-tested medicinal products on which patent rights have expired, and then stimulates doctors to prescribe the new products in order to increase their own performance. What you can see is the enormous influence of the pharmaceutical industry, including in this house, and how we, as elected representatives, allow ourselves to use the pharmaceutical industry to drive clean product marketing from the pulp by presenting the products of the medicated product, and indignantly mention how these pharmaceutical manufacturers do not get the benefits they should have, as a result of their inclusion in the blue-printing system. It's a concern that SV doesn't share. We believe that the pharmaceutical industry will do very well even if modified schemes are introduced that seek to use resources better than today. However, we have disagreed that the approach to the reimbursement contract should be such that it is not based on volunteering. Because we believe that more is achieved by voluntary means than by coercion, and that there will also be an opportunity for the pharmaceutical industry to be responsible for marketing, by necessarily providing a description consistent with the contracts concluded, the aim of which is not to maximise the use of a medicinal product, but that the group of people who suffer or have access to it for the development of pests will receive the product, and not as much as possible, including those who should not benefit from it. In this respect, the media surveys that have recently been, are thought-provoking, showing that far more than those who benefit from it, often use some very expensive drugs, and many of those who are prescribed these drugs not only have no use but have significant side effects on the products that cause their quality of life to be reduced many times. Therefore, this area of SV will be concerned with monitoring, both to mitigate the cost growth where it appears to be completely unnecessary and where the funds could have been used in a more rational way, but also to achieve a better match between effort and impact. SV supports the proposals available here in the case of reimbursement contracts, on the basis of the changes made to the social committee when we deal with the matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e147	Reimbursement contracts were mentioned for the first time in the 2003 budget. It was suggested as a possible solution to the general reimbursement under Section 9 that one could enter into a binding agreement with the manufacturers of the medicinal products Actos and Avandia. Today’s proposal shows that such a solution may be applicable to several medicinal products. A reimbursement contract shall mean that producers of medicinal products themselves shall be responsible for complying with the reimbursement criteria. The Christian People's Party supports the establishment of a legal framework for the conclusion of a reimbursement contract between the State and the pharmaceutical companies in connection with the admission of medicinal products to the BIP. We support the system because we know that many people are totally dependent on new and expensive drugs to have a good life. For these, it is essential that the medicinal products are included in the bladder prescription system. More than I was probably a little surprised when we saw the front page of Dagbladet yesterday: "Medicine doesn't work on half of us," said a pharmaceutical director of one of the world's largest pharmaceutical manufacturers. For patients, it becomes particularly important that there is a medicine on the market that suits them, that gives effect and that has few side effects. The Christian People's Party believes that by using reimbursement contracts, it opens up for a faster admission of new drugs into the bladder prescription system. This benefits patients. Through the consultation of this case, we received more input from patient organisations that today it takes too much time to get good and cost-effective medicine into the blue prescription system. The reimbursement contract will specify a specific number of patients to be eligible for blue prescription medications, while providing for penalties in the event of a breach of the contract. Such a form of sanction may be to require that the medicinal product undertaking be given a reduced price for all the products prescribed in addition to the contractual number of patients or that the firm pay a predetermined proportion of the turnover exceeding the number of patients agreed upon. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to clarify that no patient must interrupt his/her treatment even if the patient's application proves to be incorrect. The Christian People's Party assumes that the amendment of the law will result in the pharmaceutical companies adapting their marketing more specifically to the conditions under which the prescription of medicinal products is based on a blue prescription. This will mean that patients with a special need for new medicinal products will receive it. It is expected that the cost of popular protection will be reduced. The Christian People's Party sees the need for a broad and comprehensive review of all aspects of the prescription scheme. It can deal with everything from procedures, some kind of estimate allocation, temporary approval, processing times, to doctors’ prescribing practices. The doctors have a great responsibility to provide patients with proper treatment. At the same time, they have few incentives to become familiar with and prescribe under the prescribed conditions. This aspect should also be included in the review of the bladder prescription system. An overall committee sees the need for a person to charge fees for the treatment of the placing on the market of non-prescription medicinal products outside pharmacies. This will lead to more supervision, and it is reasonable, in the view of the Christian People's Party, that these expenses are charged to the new outlets.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e173	It has already been a long day, and I will try to be relatively brief on this matter. We in the Centre Party are somewhat disappointed that no more than the Progress Party and the Centre Party want to clarify more precisely what a thorough review of the whole area of medicinal products and policy should be. There was a little guy named Marius, who, when it was Latin, was talking about the creeper. He was dying in that scarecrow. I have to say that sometimes I feel like little Marius, when we go into this medicine area. This whole area has become so incomprehensible and so complicated that I look forward to a proper review of it. And I think it's important to get it out as soon as possible. The opposition is often good at stressing a government on time, but in this context there is a real need to get a clean-up in the field of medicine as soon as possible. So I'm not going to go so much into why we don't want a law clause that permits the possibility of reimbursement contracts. This is not due to concern for the pharmaceutical industry. I think, as other representatives have been involved here, that it will be all right. But I'm a little concerned that we're moving into an area where we don't see the consequences, and that there are legal consequences that can be distinguished here. First of all, I'm skeptical of the consequences to the user, and of what happens when the volume that's contractual is used up for the year, and new patient groups are added, patients who need this medicine. That's why we're going to go against the new fifth paragraph of Section 6. So a little bit to this with the two drugs that triggered this case, namely Actos and Avandia. We believe that the diabetic patients who need these drugs, and who benefit very well from them, should be able to obtain them from Section 9 of the prescription. We have also taken this into account in the alternative budget in terms of costs. But it has to be seen as a temporary arrangement until we get these things really in place again. Then we're also a little bit of a lease because we haven't been able to find an alternative to reimbursement contracts, that we haven't got a system for the temporary authorisation of medicines on blue prescription, as some of our neighbouring countries have, and as some patient organisations during the consultation of this case, it was up to us to have here in Norway as well. Finally, a comment on this with a fee for the sale of non-prescription medicinal products outside of pharmacy. We have been concerned that such fees for authorisation and sale should not affect those who already have pharmacy sales in the store today, under the direction of an ordinary pharmacy. I am pleased that an overall committee assumes that the changes made to the fourth paragraph of Section 16 of the Medicines Act, the fee and the levying of an annual fee, are not to apply to the sales of medicines that you have today, and that at these sales you should also be able to have the supply of medical packages with prescription medications, as is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e191	Questions about the inclusion of medicinal products in the bladder prescription system often end up in Stortinget. No later than the submission of the Government’s 2004 draft government budget, discussions were held on the inclusion of different medicinal products in the scheme. As surely as such cases end up in Stortinget, it is that the depositors say from time to time that they do not want to decide on individual cases and act as case handlers in blue prescription cases. I realize that in this way you can experience yourself as little Marius. The case manager’s job should be done by the administration and not by the Stortinget. Our job as politicians is to give priority to different health care interventions, so that patients can get the best possible offer within the agreed resource framework. Many medicinal products for which reimbursement is sought have a good effect, but on a limited proportion of the patient population. It is a challenge to design instruments to ensure that patients with the greatest benefit from a medicinal product receive this on a blue prescription. The incentives in today's system make this difficult. This may result in someone not getting the treatment they should have received. The target must be a more targeted reimbursement system and a better provision of health to the patient. The size of the budget for 2003 was set out in the following decisions: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the medicines Actos and Avandia can be refunded on a blue prescription according to Section 9 of the Regulation to the patients and according to the criteria proposed by the Swedish Medicines Agency. If necessary, the Government is asked to submit proposals for the necessary authorization to do so by means of a reimbursement contract. ‘... The decision of the Trustee has been followed up so far by the submission of Ot.prp. No 88 for 2002–2003, which is being addressed here today. It is precisely a follow-up to the budget agreement last year. The Government has, in its proposal, proposed the creation of its own legal basis for the use of reimbursement contracts. A reimbursement contract describes the rights and obligations assumed by the public interest and the pharmaceutical company when a medicinal product is included in the blue prescription list. The consequences of a breach of contract may range from a refund to the State in the form of a progressive charge as compensation for sales beyond what is specified in the contract to a milder form of reaction. This will be regulated in each contract, based on the specificities of each case. The home meal provides the necessary flexibility. The possibility of using reimbursement contracts will put increased pressure on industry to base realistic figures on requests for reimbursement. Reimbursement contracts will at the same time provide incentives for industry to market its products to doctors within the limits set by the Reimbursement Access. The doctors are thus better informed about reimbursement conditions and have to assume greater responsibility for the compliance of the prescription with the rules applicable to prescription on blue prescription. In sum, this will help to make prescriptions for blue prescriptions more reserved for patients who will benefit most from them and who the Agency believes should receive these medicines on a blue prescription. This will help to speed up the entry of medicinal products into the bladder prescription system, for the benefit of patients. At the same time, we will have better control over the spending of public health on medicines. When the Storting decides today on the basis of which it is based, I would like to take the initiative to resume the negotiations on reimbursement contracts relating to the medicinal products Actos and Avandia. I assume that the outcome of the negotiations gives a result that is best for the patients. Hopefully, the use of reimbursement contracts will result in fewer individual cases in the blueprint area for Stortinget to deal with. At the same time, the possibility of using reimbursement contracts will help patients to obtain a better and wider range of services. Let me conclude by saying that I understand the need for a broader review of the medicinal product area, which is reflected in the settings in various ways. We are in the middle of an evaluation of the pharmacy reform and the pharmacy law. We have an order from Stortinget for an evaluation of the index price system. For my part, I would like to take the initiative of a wide-ranging review of the area of medicines. I want to involve doctors, pharmacists, patient organisations and others with relevant experience in this area, so that we can get a good basis for a discussion on the future policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e227	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e230	I will not start a big debate in this area, because the matter is lost to me. I just get to accept that. The matter of reimbursement for Actos and Avandia on the blue prescription we lost in Stortinget, so that bit is for our part a time gone by now. What I want to spend time on, and ask the Council of State, is the review that's going to happen. We want a broader review, and that is what our proposal involves. A year ago, among other things, the vote took place. the governing parties and the Socialist Left Party against such a broad review, but they tried to limit themselves to the blue-receptive system, the index price system and the pharmacy law. Can we now at least expect that we will have a separate case for the Stortinget in this area, and that this will not be included in the revised budget or in the government budget for next year? This area is so large and complex that a reasonable treatment period is needed in Stortinget – and this should be promoted as a matter of its own. Will the Council of State say here and now that there's going to be a separate matter for the Storting on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e239	Let me first say to the representative Nesvik that I am concerned with the decision that the Stortinget has made, and that – as far as I recall – the Progress Party voted in favour, where a request for a proposal for reimbursement contracts was made if necessary. That's what we're dealing with here. Secondly, I would like to say that I am going to apply the review of the medicinal product area wide. I will come back to Stortinget with it in an appropriate way. That's what I can say about it today. I have not taken a decision in what form, but I have noticed the wish of the representative Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e246	I have a question for the Minister of Health in relation to the fourth paragraph of Section 16 of the Act on Medicinal Products, about this new fee for the processing of sales outside pharmacies and the collection of an annual fee for the marketing of such goods. I hope the Minister of Health can confirm that he is taking the floor and that this is a fee and a fee that will not be paid to those who already have such medical sales. It is important to clarify this before any vote in favour or against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e251	I can confirm that I will relate to the setting also at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e256	The proposal to which the Council of State referred, on the reimbursement of Actos and Avandia on blue prescription, was negotiated with the Progress Party last year. However, the proposal reads ‘if necessary’, and according to the State Medicines Agency (SLV), it would, among other things, include: Due to reduced insulin use due to the use of these two drugs, there would be no budgetary impact. At that time, the Council of State had had the opportunity to have followed this up in the past and refunded these medicines. Or is it that the Council of State does not trust its own specialist body SLV in pharmaceutical matters, which you can get the impression of here?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e261	Governments rely both on their offices and on the underlying offices. But the Council of State has a responsibility for what matters are to be presented to the Storting, and in what way. I take that responsibility. The question relating to the specific matter referred to by the representative Nesvik concerns the specific possibilities for demarcating the target audience for reimbursement. It's my opinion, and it's the department's opinion, that such a delimitation can only be achieved in a neat and good way through a reimbursement contract. The management has started negotiations with such a reimbursement contract. The negotiations were stranded. I believe that the basis for resuming the negotiations now exists, as Odelstinget will, in the evening, be expected to agree to the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e268	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 214]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e286	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other party groups. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to three lines with replies after the insertion of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative. The first speaker is Gunn Olsen, who gets the floor instead of the spokesperson, who is a member of the Lagninget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e295	Many of these changes we have here for treatment are very much in agreement. Therefore, there is no need for additional comments on behalf of the rapporteur in all areas. However, there may be a need to express joy at the fact that the chiropractor's profession now finally appears to be more equal to health prostheses, by including funds for further training. In the case of the sickness pay scheme, I have to stress that it is seasily the disadvantage of a budgetary settlement, but that is what we are in favour of. The Labour Party is satisfied with the agreement, sail if we have to vote here for legislative changes that we essentially disagree with and took the opportunity to avoid in our alternative budget. To repeat that, we do not accept changes in the sickness pay scheme. The agreement on an inclusive working life is based on the fact that the sickness benefit scheme is not to be amended in the contractual period, from 3 October 2001 to 31 December 2005. We view this as a principle and not a small adjustment. The Labour Party believes that it is unacceptable to allow workers who have a more loose relationship with the labour market to have a less economic security of disease. The purpose of the conversion of vocational retraining is good. The changes in the rules on rehabilitation pay must ensure that the relevant ones are given the best possible assistance to return to work as soon as possible. That is also the objective of the IA agreement. In evaluating this, we need to look closely at all types of interventions — what really works to reduce sick leave and what leads to the best possible response. Finland has used a different model from that of the Government and has achieved better results than other EU countries. They are more responsible to the employer for really doing well, and have given the employer an economic rice behind the mirror if the effort is not good enough. At home, the individual bears the financial responsibility for recovering in terms of lower benefits than in the case of disability benefits. What should disabled people be allowed to do in leisure? Here I have to say that the government has a strange interpretation. It is obvious that those who need public support for taking part in leisure activities need to be careful with an appropriate level of both scope and breadth. That's the way it is with orphans, and that's the way it's going to be with the insured. Not everyone can participate in all possible leisure activities, but everyone should be entitled to some physical birth and exchange, even when the public is included in the payment. In most families, for economic reasons, we have to set limits on what we can participate in, but it's rarely that the budget is either zero or up to 500 million. kr. Here it should be possible to describe what is reasonable support for leisure activities. It is possible to combine criteria that are delimited according to the importance for the individual and what is common to participate in within a sober family economy. Social security legislation is otherwise so detailed that it may be possible to come back with better criteria, both for everyday life and for leisure activities, in a subsequent adjustment round. As far as the time limit of rehabilitation money is concerned, it looks like 41 pst. have received a rehabilitation allowance of one year or more. It is therefore important to stress that the exemption rule on extended aid needs to be liberalised, and it is reassuring to know that we will receive feedback on any adverse consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e308	Most of the legislative changes proposed in this motion for a resolution are a broad consensus on, or a unanimous committee behind it. The proposed increase in the basic pension for married and cohabiting pensioners from 80 to 82.5 G is a follow-up to the 2003 Progress Party Budget Agreement. The increase is part of the gradual escalation plan to reduce the coordination effects of the basic pension between spouses and cohabitants. A number of the other proposed legislative changes follow up the Government's desire to target support measures against those who need it the most and to get people to work. Therefore, it is good that social security offices are required to assess the need for vocational rehabilitation as early as possible. Furthermore, in order to counteract the indebtedness of the beneficiaries of the rehabilitation allowance, a time limit of 52 weeks is proposed for the period for which the benefit may be extended under exceptional provisions. However, an important reservation is made that the period of benefit may be extended in very serious cases of disease. Rehabilitation allowances shall be a temporary scheme, not a scheme for both six and seven years, for which there are examples. In the case of certain groups of single dependants, the proposal proposes to extend the transitional aid period during the necessary training, from two years to three years. This is in addition to the ordinary three-year social benefit period, so that the total social benefit period is six years. An extended period of benefit in education will hopefully increase the competence of dependants and thus increase the ability to get work. In the case of benefits for the improvement of people with disabilities in everyday life, a majority of the Ministry's proposals that assistance for everyday purposes should not be interpreted as including facilities for recreational purposes, training etc. If you want to open this up, you should include tools for all types of activities that need specialisation. Limiting it to a few activities would seem unfair to users. An extended interpretation will nevertheless open up major mitigation problems and have major economic consequences. Gunn Olsen stated that children and young people must be allowed to have leisure activities, like everyone else. It is therefore important to stress that there are rules in social security legislation that provide exemptions for young people under the age of 26 so that they can receive assistance and support for leisure and hobby equipment. The changes in the sick pay scheme, leading to a stronger targeting of the system against workers with a stable employment relationship, were previously debated, during the budgetary procedure. The requirement that a person should have been in work before being entitled to sick pay is extended from two weeks to four weeks, and the period of entitlement to sick pay during inactive periods is reduced from three months to one month – it must be seen as adjustments. There is no reason to view this as a breach of the contract of an inclusive working life. As I also said in the budget debate, these small changes help to maintain the world's best health pay system, with full pay from the first day. I also think it should just be lacking that you, for example. should not be able to require that you have been in work for at least four weeks before you have earned full health insurance rights. We have to demand that what you do and what you get left is proportionate to each other. On the other hand, in the context of these changes, it is also important to note that it is proposed to extend entitlement to sick pay in the event of an interruption of training and during the post-paid period.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e329	In Ot.prp. No 10 there are a number of proposals for amendments to the Law on Social Security, as well as some amendments to, inter alia, the Act on Social Security. social security law. Most of what is available from proposals for changes is the result of the State budget and the proposals for changes that emerge there. Most of it has therefore been said in this matter during the debate on the State budget earlier today. I would therefore just like to make a few brief comments on some of the proposals. It is gratifying that the Government is following up the agreement with the Progress Party on the current budget, in which, after many years of fighting, we were finally able to see an escalation plan in terms of the basic pension to which the married and cohabiting spouse should be entitled, from 1.5 G, which it was before 1 May 2003 and to 1.65 G, which it will be from 1 May 2004. This agreement also includes a further step up to 1,7 G in 2005. We see it as a matter of course that this is being followed up. However, the progress party will continue to work with it in order to ensure that married and cohabiting pensioners have their own full basic pension unabated. With regard to the requirement of a stronger link with working life in order to receive sick pay, the Government proposes that this period be changed from two to four weeks. This is a proposal which, to those degrees, is designed to change today's sick pay system, in particular given that this will affect those who have the weakest relationship with the world of work from before, to a large extent, graduates or those who have been out of work for a period of time, such as: women who have been living at home. It is worth noting that it is now in fact the Workers' Party who are involved in weakening the sick pay scheme despite all the promises that they would never be able to think of anything like this, cf. the last roll-out campaign. We just have to take note of this. However, the Progress Party will vote against this proposal for a weakened sick pay scheme. The government provides for a tightening in the practice of how long you can receive rehabilitation money under the derogation. The party of progress fears that this could create considerable uncertainty in this group and that this scheme could lead to an excessive transfer to vocational rehabilitation with a risk of relapse to disease rehabilitation. The Progress Party will therefore vote against this proposal. With regard to the proposal for an extended transitional aid period for lone dependants in the course of the necessary training, the Progress Party will vote against the Government's proposal, as young people under the age of 18 also have a responsibility for their own development and situation. It is therefore possible for single dependants under the age of 18 to obtain education by taking up study loans in line with other trainees. In the context of the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party, it has now been decided that a wish for the grant of child care to a single mother or father to be 64 pst. of documented expenditure, against 66 pst. today. The Progress Party is a little incomprehensible about what is behind this amendment proposal, and we look forward to a more detailed explanation of why it is desirable to go from 44 pst. to 66 pst., especially when you think that last year the working party was almost aggressively against a reduction in this social benefit. Finally, I would like to address the minority proposal included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e348	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e351	It mentions a number of changes in the law on popular protection and also in a number of other laws dealing with well-being. One of the proposed changes is related to the rights to sickness benefits in relation to employment. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, refers to the agreement on inclusive working life, where it states: «The government will not propose to the Stortinget changes in the current sickness scheme for neither employees nor employers during the contract period.» The majority – the parties I mentioned – consider the proposal presented to break the agreement concluded with the social partners. In addition, the majority would point out that the proposal to provide people with more unemployable links to the labour market with a weaker financial security in the case of sick leave could undermine a policy aimed at combating poverty. So it's a majority that emphasizes it, and that would make the changes impossible. Thus, one cannot, on the part of the Government, against the majority of the Storting, reduce the health pay system – and that in conflict with the agreement on an inclusive working life, an agreement from which we have quoted. The majority emphasise that this would be a breach of the agreement. Nevertheless – and I would say, very alarming – the one party that is present and makes up the majority here, namely the Labour Party, says the following: ‘The working party has gone through its budgetary option to maintain the sick pay scheme unchanged. In the light of the budgetary settlement reached between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties, these members will vote in favour of the proposed amendment.» This means that the Labour Party – which is a member of the majority – who argues that this is a breach of the agreement on an inclusive working life – will nevertheless vote in favour of the change. Then you can ask where credibility is in the criticism of the government of exactly the same relationship. For SV, it's quite obvious that we're going to go against a change that weakens the health insurance rights of new groups. There are also other proposals here. Thus, with regard to the definition of ‘help for daily life’, with which the Social Security Court has operated, it can be seen that, in addition to what only had to be related to working life or to domestic relationships, it also applies to different activities. It is not difficult to imagine that a person with a disability will perceive that ‘the tasks of daily life’ are about, for example, to visit close relatives, to visit cultural services. It's about getting out, having different leisure activities, which just make sense in everyday life. Is it supposed to have nothing to do with everyday life? It's relatively absurd – as if it's not about everyday life's tasks for us to be functionally free to do anything other than go to and from work or to stand in the kitchen or lie down when it's evening? Of course, it's about 24 hours a day, about all the hours of the day, about what's daily being part of the day. But here, too, the government, together with the Workers' Party, chooses to go for interpretations other than what social security law has done. Nor do you want to be part of the proposal made by the minority, asking the Government to promote a case in which the coverage of facilities for recreation, leisure interests, training, etc. further investigation of disabled persons, including their economic consequences. So you just ask that it be investigated, and that you look at the economic consequences, but neither has the Workers' Party wanted to go in for it. We see that there is a time limit in the payment of rehabilitation money as a consequence of the government's settlement with the Workers' Party. No longer than two years after one year's medical notice, you should be able to receive a rehabilitation allowance on the basis of exceptional provisions. In the past, we have discussed in this room examples where cancerous people have such an uncertain prognosis that they may either get healthy or get a deterioration in their condition – and die in the worst case. There should just be opportunities to receive rehabilitation money instead of going to a humiliating canoeing session and applying for disability pension! Many are even in a position of employment in which they receive part of the rehabilitation allowance in such a situation. The Workers' Party is involved in removing the possibilities of, by supporting the Government in this case. So you should not be paid back for disability pension when you have previously received rehabilitation, vocational rehabilitation or other benefits from social security, with the difference that may exist. Here, too, you weaken the rights of sick pay recipients. That's bad. I'm sorry I've wasted my time, but that's because I think this is bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e383	Ot. pp. No 10 deals with changes in popular protection laws and in some other laws. The changes in the public welfare law mainly relate to material changes to the 2004 draft budget. It is therefore not the very basis for a heated debate on this matter. In 1967, the former age-stricken system, with differentiated rates for couples and singles, was maintained. In the pension scheme, married couples are still considered as a unit. The curtailment rules that were laid down were based on a thought where one had a dependant responsibility based on a labour income, while this is a poor thing to say, when we know that most families today are based on two incomes. The Christian People's Party has been working for many years to increase the basic pension of married and cohabiting pensioners. We are therefore very pleased that the escalation plan is being followed, and that a joint committee is behind this. In order to be entitled to sickness benefit, there is today a requirement to have been working for at least two weeks before he or she becomes unemployed. The Government Party believes that this system today also includes many people who have a very weak and sporadic connection to working life. The Christian People's Party believes that there should be a demand for a somewhat stricter link with the working life to fall under the sickness scheme. This is precisely what we mean because we want to target the sick pay scheme better towards people who have a stronger connection to the working life. This must be seen as adjustments to the criteria and not as a weakening of the sickness benefit scheme. The sickness benefit scheme is unchanged in view of full compensation from the first day of illness. The Ministry's proposal to increase ignition time from two to four weeks therefore does not break with the agreement on inclusive working life. This is a sensible adjustment in view of the challenges identified in relation to welfare schemes resulting from the EEA extension of 1 January 2004. The Ministry proposes certain changes to the legislation on sickness and rehabilitation benefits to ensure that people in these schemes receive assistance to return to work as soon as possible. The Christian People's Party is concerned that people who are in rehab or rehabilitation come back to work as soon as possible. We believe that such a quick return can prevent the employee from staying outside the workplace, and we fully support the Government's proposal. As a general rule, rehabilitation money is not given coherently for more than 52 weeks. But exceptions are allowed in certain situations. These exceptional conditions have no time limit. The Ministry believes that exceptional conditions should be time-limited in order to stimulate earlier clarifications and improve the possibility of a successful recovery plan. With such time-limits on the exemption conditions of 52 weeks, it will be possible to receive sickness and rehabilitation benefits for three years. This we think is important and long enough. We also show that in different situations, among other things. in the case of traffic damage or in other specific cases, it is possible to extend the performance. The Christian People's Party therefore also supports this proposal. One issue in which the Committee has shared is the question of ‘helping the daily life’. The Christian People's Party believes that this practice should not include means in connection with recreation, leisure interests, training etc. However, an extension of the scope to certain types of activities would not seem fair to the users. Therefore, the option is that all leisure activities requiring special equipment are covered if they have much to say in order for the individual to be able to carry out this activity. Such an extended interpretation would pose significant limiting problems. The Ministry has stated in two letters — one very detailed letter — that such conversion will involve significant additional costs, between 250 and 500 million. kr every year. A clear limit which has been raised so far applies to the Rikstrygdeverket for its refusal to apply for aid for off-road vehicles in order to get into the forest and land – at the same time it has been authorised to do so if the subsequent cages are non-resident and need such means of transport in order to be able to reach their own dwelling. The Christian People's Party supports such an interpretation of the concept, and therefore supports the ministry's proposal. Finally, I would just like to stress that the Christian People's Party supports what is in Ot.prp. No 10 allocated to the 2004 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e406	Ot. pp. No 10 for 2003-2004 is referred to in the tribal language as the aggregation proposition. Before Christmas we have a lot of these. There's almost some kind of pre-Christmas calendar here in the house to open these aggregate propositions. It can be exciting to see what is behind each proposal for change, but not always as pleasant and positive. One pleasant message in this joint proposal is that one from the Government follows up this by stepping down the coordination effect with regard to basic pensions for spouses and cohabitants and that one has a similar step-up plan to increase the basic pension for these groups. That's good. It is also positive to note that chiropractors should be treated in the same way as other comparable professional groups in the provision of funds for common purposes for chiropractors. It is to the extent that we have followed up what we have treated in the field of alternative medicine and different authorisations for health professionals groups. Then we come to this with demands for stronger links with the labour market in order to be entitled to sickness benefits. As several speakers have pointed out, it intervenes in the agreement on a more inclusive working life. It is amazing that the Workers' Party is involved in this, I think, not least because the government that signed the agreement on an inclusive working life was the Stoltenberg government. That it is now Bondevik II, along with the Workers' Party, who is entering and changing relationships during this period, is quite remarkable. It affects those who have the weakest connection to the world of work. Then I would like to comment on the regulatory home in the provision on social benefits for improving the functioning of daily life. It has become partly festive, I think, when someone here is talking about buying an off-road vehicle and so on. I have to say that I very much agree with Gunn Olsen's representative, who said that when it comes to participating in leisure activities, the tasks of daily life, special interests, hobbies, training, etc., it is in any family to some extent limited to what you have the opportunity to bet on equipment. We also believe that that should apply here. But it is very important to be clear that people with disabilities should also have the same right and opportunity as those with disabilities for recreation, leisure and training. This with physical birth and a healthier Norway has been clarified several times in the last year in this room. At the latest today, the representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, said that there was an important mark and almost a change in budgeting and priority in budgetary management that had been given a separate post for physical birth and cooperation with the voluntary organisations. But for people with disabilities, this is not going to apply. I think it is strange that the Labour Party cannot take part in the proposal promoted by the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre in this respect. I believe that this right and the possibility to participate, not least in relation to training and physical feeding, will also apply to persons over 26 years of age. I have been involved in promoting such a proposal before, which was not then approved. But here there should be a change and a positive development. I believe that the interpretation of social security law here is correct and sensible. We also think it is wrong to limit the period during which rehabilitation money is to be given under the derogation and go against that introduction. With regard to the benefit of child care, we are somewhat surprised that it came up now, and that this benefit is to be reduced from 66 pst. to 64 pst. Like other speakers, I think that the background is unclear, and hope that we get an explanation of what is contained in this proposal by the government parties and the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e428	In this proposition, the Government has presented proposals for amendments to the Law on Social Security and Social Security. The amendments to the Social Security Act are mainly material changes related to the 2004 draft budget. In order to maintain the good health pay system we have today with full pay from the first day of absence, less adjustments are necessary. Here we have huge expenses – 30 billion a year. It is therefore appropriate to require a somewhat stronger link with the labour market in order to be entitled to sickness benefits. The working time is proposed to increase from two to four weeks, and we propose to reduce the inactive period that gives entitlement to sickness benefits. This means better targeting of the scheme in relation to those with a firm link to work, and in my view it is not contrary to the intention agreement. These proposals must also be seen in the light of the forthcoming enlargement of the EEA area. The longer they are received, the greater the chances of receiving long-term passive benefits. It is therefore important to transfer recipients of passive benefits as early as possible to reintroduction and active action. The Government proposes to legislate an obligation for the social security office to assess professional rehabilitation as early as possible during sick leave. This shall be done by the end of the sick pay period at the latest and reassessment shall be carried out after six months of rehabilitation. Rehabilitation benefits are a short-term benefit provided when the user is undergoing medical treatment or training after the one-year period of sickness. As a general rule, the benefit may be provided for a period of one year with the possibility of extension. The government proposes that rehabilitation funds should not be paid for more than two years, except in the case of a very serious illness. The aim is to stimulate early clarification of the need for reintroduction. I note the majority's support and also the request that this be followed closely. According to § 10-6 of the Swedish Social Security Act, benefits may be granted to measures that are necessary and appropriate to improve the functioning of daily life. It has been suggested that recreational, recreational and training facilities are not included. The majority of the Committee endorsed the Government’s proposal to maintain previous practices. I agree that if people with disabilities are to have a separate place in our society, it is important that they participate in leisure activities. However, an extension of the scope will have consequences for other specialised tourist and hobby facilities and will involve high costs. The Rikstrøgdeverket has estimated that such an extension will incur costs of between 340 and 475 million. kr per. years. The proposed non-reimbursement of a disability pension for a period during which the member received a rehabilitation allowance or a resettlement allowance is initially justified for administrative reasons but is estimated to provide a saving of 95 million. DKK in 2004. Savings will decrease significantly gradually. Experience shows that the transitional period may be somewhat short for some groups of lone dependants. Today, transitional benefits in education may be granted for up to two years. The main response to poverty is increased self-sufficiency through self-employment. The government is now proposing to improve the social security scheme in order to increase the possibility of self-sufficiency. The proposal means that these groups can extend the period of benefit during the necessary training by one year, and I am pleased that there is a break-up on this. From 1 January 2003, the percentage of child care allowance was 66 pst. As a result of the budgetary agreement between the Workers’ Party and the Government Parties, the rate of social security for the population is reduced from 66 p.m. to 66 p.m. from 1 January 2004. of documented expenses of 64 pst. The benefit of revenues above 6 G will also lapse. The proposal must be seen in the context of the strong focus on kindergartens in the next year's budget. This will result in lower parental and lower costs also for single dependants. Those with so high child care costs that they exceed the maximum rates of social benefits are not affected by the reduction in social benefits. For a single pensioner, the basic pension is 100 pst. of the basic amount of the public interest, while married and cohabiting pensioners receive a reduced basic pension. In the course of the last year’s budgetary procedure, there was an agreement on a stepping-up plan for basic pensions for married and cohabiting pensioners. This means increasing the basic pension to 80 pst. by G from 1 May this year, and further increased from 1 May 2004 to 82,5 pst. by G. On this basis, the government proposes that the basic pension increase to 82.5 pst. from 1 May 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e448	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e451	Today's debate has been strange, especially in one area, and it is important to extend the period of labour relations before entitlement to sickness benefits, from two to four weeks. The Labour Party says that this is not contrary to the IA agreement, and that it is not a weakening of the sick pay scheme. The Council of State now said that there are ‘minor adjustments’, that the scheme is more targeted and that it should not least be seen in the context of the enlargement of the EU. I have a question for the social minister, because she claims that there is no weakening of the sickness pay system. Let's take the following example: a waitress, a new employee of a company, has worked there for three and a half weeks, falls and breaks his foot and gets sick. Under the current system, he will be entitled to sickness benefits, but under the new scheme he will not be entitled to sickness benefits. Should he/she have to sue his/her own employer for a living, or should he/she be sent to social work? I would ask the Council of State to respond to the following: Is this a weakening of this person's sick pay scheme or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e460	The Government has entered into a budgetary settlement with the Workers' Party. This is an adjustment to the sick pay scheme in this area. The question is, how long will it take to earn full rights? Today it's 14 days. That period has been there for many years. This is an adjustment, and the Government has chosen to give priority to those who have a stronger link with the labour market. The Government has also carried out an evaluation of the Memorandum of Understanding with the social partners. The declaration has been signed. The agreement is continued with some clarifications and adjustments that I am not going to make right now. The issue of sick pay is not specifically mentioned there, but is a prerequisite for that further. But what the parties also agree on is that we should have a communication in the future regarding any adjustments and changes, and then there should be a consensus on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e467	The National Social Security Act states that a person receiving rehabilitation benefits must be under ‘active treatment with a view to improving their working capacity’. There is, of course, an entry-level condition regardless of whether you receive rehabilitation money for a short or longer period of time, and the few are likely to be treated after several years with a view to improvement. Other measures have to be taken. But there are groups that can be treated with a view to improvement. Such a group may be cancer patients with uncertain prognosis, which may in part still be related to working life, but as in periods such as: during cell toxicity treatment, must take breaks from work. It would then be quite artificial to put the person on vocational retraining, or to take out the option, a permanent disability pension. Will the Minister of Social Affairs confirm that the group of these rules will not be able to receive rehabilitation benefits beyond two years, or does the Minister of Social Affairs see that there may be a need for exemptions?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e476	Yes, it lies in the premise – serious illness. Cancer is a serious disease and is therefore an exception. I forgot one thing in the answer to the representative Nesvik on the previous question, and that is that occupational injury is excluded in the case of the example that the representative addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e483	I just feel the need to stress that the Workers' Party believes in principle that the changes that are now taking place in the sickness pay scheme are a breach of the IA agreement. The reason why we vote in favour of this is simply that we have to do it as a result of the budgetary agreement. It is a large camel that must be swallowed in the wake of the budgetary conciliation. But what's a little interesting is the Council of State's reason why she thinks this is not a breach of the IA agreement. She says this is not a change to the IA agreement. It's an adjustment to the IA agreement. Then I have to say that I look forward to hearing the Council of State definition of the term ‘change’ and of the term ‘adjustment’, which means that changing is something quite different than adjusting. That's all reason to look forward to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e490	This is not an adjustment to the contract of intention, but an adjustment to the sickness scheme. It's about what's going to be the entrance ticket in order to earn your full rights. There I believe that this is an adjustment to the sickness pay scheme. It's not a breach of the IA agreement. We see that there is a lot of expenditure in this area, and we have wanted to give priority to those who have a stronger connection to the world of work. It is important to have inclusive working life, and it is the Government and the parties that have agreed to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e495	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 215]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e511	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It does not appear that the rapporteur on the matter, Eirin Faldet, is present in the Chamber. Then the next speaker, Sonja Irene Sjøli, will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e520	Now the case rapporteur is not here and he is asked to present the case. I want to start by saying a little about what this case is not about. Ot. pp. No 10 Part II, which relates to curtailment in the AFP against the grant pension, is not about whether or not the administrative amount of the AFP should be adjusted to the basic amount of the public interest or not, nor is it about the possibility for leisure policy to engage. I'm starting out like this because the setting might seem to give the impression that the proposition is all about all of this, but it doesn't. The proposition, on the other hand, is the shortening of the AFP against the contribution of the employer. The right-hand party believes in particular that it should pay off as much work as possible. I also think it will be clear how important this is in fact, when the Pension Commission presents its suspension somewhat delayed in the New Year. But, and that's an important thing: The older people in the world of work – I think first and foremost of those who are physically worn out after having lived a long professional life in heavy professions – should have a real opportunity to leave earlier than others and end a long working life in a dignified way. In the right-hand view, this should be done through a system initially applicable to all workers. The assessment of the need for early retirement needs to be made individually. Here we know that, unfortunately, the AFP system has major shortcomings, for example. that it does not apply to all workers. The need test is also no more individual than the fact that the AFP, in combination with the employer's contribution pension, has been used relatively diligently in the context of redundancy. I think everyone would agree that was never the intention behind the AFP scheme. For the Right, it is completely wrong when an early retirement contract is used by an employer to disqualify valuable older workers from working life when it is to be reduced. In addition, we cannot have the possibility for the employer to make early retirement easier to accept for those workers, when it comes to being reduced, by suing the pill with a gift pension. The right cannot help to dispel valuable labour from the labour market. Otherwise, I refer to the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Workers' Party. As part of this agreement, it is agreed that the proposal to shorten the AFP's contribution to the grant pension should not be dealt with during the harvest. The Committee therefore proposes that the proposal be returned to the Government. I will end by saying that I look forward to the retirement commission's position, and to what answers the Commission has to give in relation to meeting the future challenges of pensions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e541	So this is not about the AFP scheme as such, but about the government's proposal that the employer's allowance should be curtailed from the AFP crown for crowns. This went against the Workers' Party, and as the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli pointed out, we got a budget agreement that made us stop this deduction from the pension now. In this connection, we wait and see what can happen when the Pension Commission presents its Christmas settings. The representative, Mr. Sjøli, was inside, I got the impression that the AFP was also about an opportunity for exclusion from the labour market. My experience is that many who have been in hard work need to go out of something before with the honor in hand. That's what makes the Workers' Party ring about the AFP. In its time, we actually had a system where, in combination with the AFP, the agreed pension, you could make 1 G, that is, a basic amount of the population. It has now been reduced, first from the Bondevik I government to NOK 4000, and now we have raised the limit to NOK 15 000. Now we're waiting for the Pension Commission to set up, and then we'll see what happens. So far, the AFP scheme has been good for those who have the opportunity to withdraw a contractual pension. In many cases, they may end their working life with the health of their survivors. I think when you're talking about economics, you also have to include the human side in relation to the pension scheme and contractual pension. Otherwise, it is only for me as the case rapporteur to support the setting as it is now available. We agree with the Committee that the matter should be sent back to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e552	I ask for the floor for an obvious misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e559	Sonja Irene Sjøli is given the floor to clarify a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e562	The representative of the Fall said that I had said that the AFP was going to help push the workers out of work. That's not what I said. I said that the AFP that employers combine with a gift pension can lead to exclusion from the labour market, and many employers use it to reduce the number of employees in their company. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e567	It is not quite right when the rapporteur indicates that this is a unanimous committee. The progress party has a somewhat divergent view in this area, as shown by the setting. This is a bit of a funny thing. The Government has submitted a proposal which has since been negotiated with the Labour Party. The views of the Progress Party in this matter are very clear from our comments and from the proposition, in which we think there is a lot of good content. I would also like to agree with a number of the views expressed by the chairman of the Committee from the right, and it would be unnecessary to repeat them. I would therefore like to address in the vote the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e578	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 218]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e596	I will explain two issues in the present setting. Proposals concerning vocational training in the labour market and the training responsibilities of children and young people in child protection institutions. Since the adoption of the Law on Vocational Training in 1980, cooperation between the authorities and the social partners has been organised with a National Council for the Main Associations and Permanent National Industry Councils. The Government proposed to the Government budget that the Employment Training Council and the Training Councils be closed from the turn of the year. A unanimous committee refers to vocational and vocational training as an integral part of secondary education. As part of vocational and vocational training takes place in enterprises, this part of the training is a joint responsibility of the social partners and education and training authorities. Cooperation has long traditions and was an important prerequisite for the structural and content change carried out under Reform 94 and for the large increase in the number of apprenticeship places. The Committee considers that there is a need for a review and renewal of tripartite cooperation in vocational and vocational training, but believes that this must be done in close cooperation with the social partners. Reference is made here to the intention of ILO Convention No. 142 requiring countries to cooperate with the social partners on vocational and vocational training issues. The Committee also points out that the suspension of the Quality Committee, which is now being consulted, also deals with tripartite cooperation in vocational and vocational training. The Committee is therefore in favour of maintaining the Employment Training Council and the Training Council until a new structure of tripartite cooperation has been established. This is also in line with the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Workers' Party. The Committee asks the Ministry to contribute to clarifying the future tripartite cooperation in the follow-up to the suspension of the Quality Committee, and that this be done in dialogue with the social partners. The Committee also assumes that the authorities must continue to contribute to the financing of a reformed tripartite cooperation. For my part, I would like to add that I believe that the Council of State has gone forward in an inexorable way by suddenly proposing the closure of the cooperation bodies from the turn of the year, without dialogue with the parties in advance and without proposals for alternatives, while proposing the organisation of tripartite cooperation to be dismantled and pre-treated before the follow-up to the decision of the Quality Committee, which the Stortinget will be treated for spring. It might be interesting to hear whether the Council of State can already provide information on how this matter will be followed up by the Ministry and in dialogue with the social partners. The second case concerns the clarification of the training responsibilities of children and young people in child protection institutions after they have been taken over by the State. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen, supports the Ministry's proposal that the legal, professional and financial responsibility for training be added to the county council where the municipality responsible for placement is located. This will be a continuation of the training responsibility of the county municipality today. The Committee agrees that responsibility for the same county municipality is important and that this will take greater account of the continuity and planning of training for the individual. The Committee points out that the number of institutions subject to the change is small and that they will recruit students from all over the country. It is therefore important to establish payment procedures between municipalities/communities which have students at the institution and the host county. The Committee asks the Ministry to follow up municipalities and institutions in order to give them the opportunity to offer them. Otherwise, we're going to end up with the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e624	There is a broad political consensus that today's Council structure is ripe for revision, and that is precisely to meet the new challenges we know that this particular field is facing. On the other hand, the government parties do not join the representative Bjørnstad in describing the behaviour of the Council of State in this matter. In this context, I would just like to refer to the budgetary agreement concluded between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party, where there is an agreement to push the changes, on which there is a broad political agreement, as in time. Otherwise, the announced changes in tripartite cooperation are implemented, but somewhat later than foreseen. It's a solution that we in the committee are comfortable with, and a majority is behind it. But that's the reason why this is going to be exposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e631	You can describe defeat as you like. We have just heard the representative from the Right doing that. On the other hand, we would like to join in the characterisation of the case rapporteur with regard to the procedure of the department. We have wondered about the content of the draft budget on this point from the time it came. You don't do things this way, even if you want to be reformed and audited. But the material content we are satisfied with is that an overall committee is now in place to continue the Labour Training Council and the Training Councils. There's a good and broad consensus. So there's one point where there's no consensus. The second is to assign new tasks to the county. It's the Progress Party vaccinated against. We then promote an alternative proposal where we add responsibility to an excellent state representative in the counties, namely the county – i.e. an alternative proposal to Section 13-2 and Section 15-2, which I am referring to herewith.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e642	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e645	I asked for the floor to answer a question from the President-in-Office. But let me first say that I can agree with a lot of the case rapporteur here said about the matter. There is no doubt that much has worked well in Norway in terms of vocational training and training. We have a good search in contrast to many other countries, we've had a good time with apprenticeship places after reform 94, and a lot of this must also be attributed to good and close party cooperation. There's no doubt about it. At the same time, there is quite a broad consensus that how this works today, among other things. too flexible and too low change orientation. And this is also quite a broad consensus about. I can confirm that we have already entered into cooperation with the parties. We have set up working groups, cooperation between the ministry and the parties, where we discuss the future division of tasks, role-sharing and responsibilities, future forms of cooperation, etc., all within the ILO Convention. The aim is that we should move as far as possible towards clarifying what we are going to do in terms of future cooperation with the parties, until we present the notification of the quality committee's setting, but it will depend a little on the progress of this cooperation with the parties. Then I take note of the little scepticism expressed by the rapporteur in relation to the functioning of the Council of State. I can say that there are some others who have shared that scepticism. But the situation is today, with the cooperation the department has entered into with the parties, it is my impression that everyone is very pleased with the work that is being done, because one actually shares the belief that, on the one hand, we have achieved a great deal of good in Norway thanks to good party cooperation, but that this is a significant potential for improvement that everyone is now concerned about realizing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e654	I thank the Council of State for the information that a good dialogue has now begun with the social partners on the future structure. However, I also have a question on the basis of Ine Marie Eriksen's articles. I said that the description of the Council of State procedure was for its own part and not for the Committee. But I understood Ine Marie Eriksen so that they had not changed anything in relation to reality, but just pushed the changes. The change was that the Employment Training Council and the Training Councils were to be closed from the turn of the year. Is it so to understand that right here in the Storting or Council of State actually has the same opinion – that the advice is to be given? Or does the Council of State enter into the dialogue with the parties with an open mind in order to identify the best structure — where everyone believes that there is a need to renew its content?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e663	I am not quite sure if it was a line to me or to the Council of State, but at least for my own part I can clarify it as perhaps a slightly unclear statement from my side. My point was not that the structure itself is defined, but that the decision to change the structure is now being pushed forward in time. What that will result in, what kind of structure this will get, is so far no one knows. That's what the State Council has just said has begun with the parties. But my point was to say that the consensus we have in the committee, that there has to be another revision, it has to be established. But the decision on how to do this is now being pushed forward in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e670	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 218]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e678	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e685	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party, put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government, in good time before the submission of the 2005 State Budget, to submit a notification that addresses the whole of Norwegian pharmaceutical policy from the application for authorisation and until patients can make use of it, including the role of the State Medicines Agency, how to refund medicinal products in the future, the timing of procedures, the inclusion of new medicinal products in the reimbursement system, how to set prices, where and how to place medicinal products on the market, and how to ensure equal access for the Norwegian population to medicinal products irrespective of their place of residence at an approximately equal price.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e734	The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e767	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e777	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e790	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e797	In the course of the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a case in which the coverage of resources for recreation, leisure interests, training, etc. by the people’s concerns. in the case of persons with disabilities, further investigation, including the economic consequences.’;» This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e870	SV has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e918	The party of progress, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e1019	The party of progress, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e1068	The party of progress, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e1123	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e1151	The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e1173	Here, the Socialist Left Party has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e1253	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e1263	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e1270	During the debate Ulf Erik Knudsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Law No. 23 December 1988 110 on government contributions to schemes with a contractual pension, point (d) of the first subparagraph shall be replaced by the following:When the employer provides financial benefits that are not pensionable income in the social security scheme, the amount of the contractual pension shall be reduced by a corresponding amount.II Entry into force. Transitional provisionsA change in the law on state grants to contractual pension schemes § 2, first paragraph, point (d) enters into force on 1 January 2004. The amendment does not give effect to cases where a written agreement on a contractual pension has been reached before 1 January 2004 and the conditions for entitlement to such a pension have been fulfilled before 1 April 2004.’» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e1305	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e1358	Paragraphs 13-2 and 15-2 of the fourth paragraph present a different proposal from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 13-2 is replaced by the following:§ 13-2 Obligation to provide primary school education, special educational assistance and further training in institutions according to child protection lawWhen a decision is taken on the place of establishment according to the Children's Protection Act, it is the county of the county where the municipality responsible for the location is located, cf. § 8-4, which is responsible for fulfilling the right to primary school education, special educational assistance and further training in the institution under the laws here.The responsibility includes children and young people in institutions in the county council for which the state regional Children's Protection Authority is responsible under the Children's Protection Act § 5-1, and private and municipal institutions approved under the Children's Protection Act § 5-8. The Ministry may provide detailed instructions or instructions on a case-by-case basis on the responsibilities of the county council.§ 15-2, fourth paragraph, shall be replaced by:The county is the Board of Appeal for individual decisions in the vocational training department.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e1391	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e1401	The Law Decision will be sent to the Layer
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10-lower.ana.ud2386e1412	There is no record.
