ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e47	The representative, Karin Andersen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e50	On behalf of Hallgeir H. Langeland, May Hansen, Sigbjørn Molvik and myself, I will put forward proposals to give foster parents the right to care allowance in case of illness.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e55	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will announce that the suspension of case No. 1 has not been outside the regulatory period — i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Rule 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e73	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e84	Let me start by recording suggestion number. 1 from the minority of the Committee. The matter we are dealing with today has received a lot of attention over a relatively long time. Today we are discussing a very solid industry, which in many ways is the pride of the nation, and which through generations has proved to be better off than any other industry in this country. It has an international profile to which almost no other industry in this country can refer. It has survived through thick and thin due to its competence, long-term sustainability, sound economic carrying capacity and an international profile which, as I said, cannot rely on any other industry. I understand them as today, when they see the final result, expresses great disappointment at it. I have no problem understanding that. I also understand those who take words in their mouths as a breach of promises and similar expressions, which some people believe belong in this matter. The fact that we have been given solid peppers in this matter shall not be punctuated, not least because there is probably no majority for anything other than that the proposal is annexed to the Protocol and that III in the vote will be adopted. The other parties will probably present their proposals. There is a joint proposal from the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre for the phase-in of the net pay regime for the offshore fleet with effect from 1 July of this year, and reference is made to the revised national budget for the containment. The Progress Party and the Centre Party have two proposals. One is about to implement the reimbursement scheme by raising the level to 20 p.m. and the other is about to investigate the phase-in of a full net pay scheme with effect from 1 January 2004. SV has two proposals that they themselves want to explain. So to the matter. It may seem that the nation is not spending money on net pay and reimbursement schemes. It's a big misunderstanding. The amount allocated in the budget of the year is historically high. No more money has ever been allocated to this sector than for 2003. I think those who go high on the track and criticise this relationship should take the trouble of mentioning that, after all, there is an amount of 550 million in the year's budget. kr for this purpose. It's never been higher. I also record that there are some parties that, throughout all the years, from the introduction of these schemes, have durably fought against these schemes. I also see that there is a party that goes high on the track and says that they are against the net pay scheme, but that today launches a proposal that is in phase of such a scheme. Let me just say that in the case of the device of these 550 million. kr, which was put in place thanks to the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Advance Party, the Government Parties are willing to look at it. But we are not willing to go a path that requires the government parties to take an initiative to break the intentions of the agreement. For this is nothing but money. It's about the use of money in a situation where we have a very brutal economic reality around us, no matter where we turn our gaze. We're in a situation where we're experiencing the biggest stock market fall around the world since World War II. We see that unemployment gets a profile ashore around us that creates recession and pessimism, and we see numbers that have been unknown in the Western world since World War II. We see that our unemployment is crawling over 100,000, and the underlying figures indicate that it will remain at a high level, naturally enough because Norway is not located alone in this world. It knows at least Norwegian shipping more about than any other industry. We've seen that our savings, the petroleum fund, are short-lived, and we're talking about tens of billions. We have seen that one of the nation's flagships, Norwegian Hydro, has in a short time reduced its value from NOK 120 billion down to NOK 80 billion. We see every day around us corporations, corner stone companies, that go beyond the end because we have chosen to navigate differently than all the competing countries around us have done. It is not useful to point out that other countries have framework conditions that we are unable to demonstrate to our industries, once we have navigated completely differently. This has led to a development that has brought the crown price to a historically high level, which has allowed us over the last five to six years to pay more than any other country in Europe with which we are going to compete and which, in turn, led to the Workers' Party leaving the government offices in a situation where we had Europe's highest interest rate base. In the interests of Norwegian shipping, in the interests of all other competitive sectors, it has been necessary to elaborate on the concept of «tightness» in a strong effort to drive down the krone price and strengthen competitiveness and to drive down Europe’s highest interest rate base. This is what we're doing. There will be a kind of double communication when, over the years, parties that have so dubiously fought against these schemes, today, together with the organisations in the maritime sector, are presented as the heroes of the debate – when we see that this is about containment and about budget allocation. I cannot say that there is a single proposal, with the exception of SVS, to increase the tonnage tax and shipping tax, which has taken into account the concept of containment. Then the government parties can't take this more seriously than what we've done, and say that we don't have money. Neither did the other parties when this case was dealt with where it belongs, namely the State budget for 2003. Then there was no one, with the exception of the Advance Party, who had prioritised an increase in the allocation for these purposes. This proposal was promoted in November. The state budget was dealt with in December, and I could not see then that some parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, had prioritised either the offshore fleet or other sectors higher than the government parties were able to do. In addition, I would like to ask the Council of State and his College to look ahead, because we cannot live in a situation where there is even greater uncertainty about the maritime sector, and especially when we have a goal of transferring more of the transport from road to keel, we must take this seriously. We cannot live with a situation where developments especially for the shipping industry, but also for the offshore industry – wellboats, ropeboats, etc. – become so that they will not prevail over international competition. But in today's situation, there's one goal that has to overshadow everyone if we're going to take a term like 'priority' in use, and that's that we have to push down the dollar rate. We have to drive down Europe's highest interest rate. If we don't succeed, we'll phase out any other competitive sector. Then we commend ourselves to one mast, and that is that we should have a sustained high crude oil price and a sustained high gas price. It is not certain that there is a threat of war around the world that will guarantee us the kind of economic success of the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e112	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e115	This was a very interesting article, because all of a sudden the argument has changed once again. Now, for the sake of the budget, these schemes cannot be introduced. The last time we discussed this was ideology, simply business neutrality and favoring an industry over another industry, which was the main argument. However, I agree with the speaker that one of our most important tasks in this room is to ensure that the interest rate and the exchange rate come down, and that it is important to have a tight budget. I can't think that it's been particularly decisive before the Right when we've discussed this question. However, I would like to contact another side of this matter, because in my view, there are few areas where the promises are clearer than this. Not least, the government ringing party Right sent a letter to the maritime organisations in June, prior to the election, and promised that one would introduce similar arrangements as they had in our neighbouring country if one entered the government offices. Now we know that's the opposite one has done. My question becomes very simple: Is it true that this kind of lifting break is helping to increase the confidence of politicians, or does it believe the opposite? Then I see that the panic has taken the Right-Representatives when they're supposed to defend their position in the media. So in the absence of any better arguments, another representative suspects his or her involvement in this matter, and among other things. said Ivar Kristiansen yesterday in Haugesund's newspaper that in the Labour Party we trap crocodile tears when we say that we will do something about this cause, because we don't have coverage. But it's like the government itself is running things this spring that's spent $200 million. SEK – 300 million. kr, without showing cover. So you have to be able to ask back: are there crocodile tears when the government makes suggestions to improve the situation of Aeta?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e124	I have great respect for the commitment that everyone shows in these questions, also the commitment that the representative Aksensen shows. I remind you that today there is not enough money in the budget to be able to meet the ambitions that we probably all have, but we are talking about a historically high level. I think that the representative Aksensen and his party would make the situation easier for us, much easier for the government parties, if not this would have been week's menu. Last week there was housing aid with reference to financing from the revised national budget; 300 million. kr would be financed in. Next week, there's a proposal on the menu that's going to give 250 million. SEK in guarantees to the Norwegian fishing industry. In the past, there has been a prioritisation of the kindergarten sector, and there is a new situation in which the opposition, including with reference to the revised national budget, will create a system of tax exemptions for the employer’s financing of childcare facilities for employees. It will be completely impossible to deal with this issue when you have proposals of this kind on a weekly basis, with reference to the revised national budget. If this were to be given priority by the Labour Party more than by the government parties, this should, of course, be done in the budget. I also understand the concept of a breach of obligations. I am not so sure that we are standing in front of the queue, compared to the party represented by the Axis. But I'm not sure it has such a great interest in the gallery here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e135	I ask myself, what happened to Right? Everyone knows a little about Jan Petersen's letter. A part of us – locally – know the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve's promises in the fall, in the Sunnmørspost, when she promised in capital letters that the seafarers would have their rightful claims met. Then the representative Kristiansen says there's so much money in this. Yeah, we know that. But perhaps it was reasonable for the representative Kristiansen to tell the finance minister that, because he is going around saying now that he is against a net payroll scheme, because he does not want to give net paychecks to the bartenders on the ferries. But they already have it, they! So what would be right was that the representative Kristiansen told him that he had a government about what was inside this arrangement. So talk to Ivar Kristiansen that this industry was "the pride of the nation". Yes, she is. But where does she leave it? So Kristiansen boasts that a now has received the highest amount that has been within this scheme. But the cause is that these money would be taken away by the representative Kristiansen – at least by his government. In the context of the presentation of the budget, all this money was gone. And then there was a party that got them back in. I don't really need names, because one would think most people know about it. The representative Kristiansen says that one should keep promises, and that the Right will not break the budget agreement. Why, then, did they break the budget agreement on the revised last year? Then the Progress Party and the Government had a written agreement that this should be included in the budget – and then they take it away! That's what the truth is. Then I have to ask the question: can we trust them when they come out with new promises? At least I don't believe that "the pride of the nation" can trust the Right Party and the government party in this matter – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e148	This is probably a good opportunity for a rematch, but I am not sure if it is a rematch that will bring this matter forward. The representative of Solholm is right in much of what he brings up here today. We have never hidden that it was in connection with the agreement with the Progress Party that the amount of 550 million. kr came in for the financing of net wages and salaries and reimbursement schemes. I think we're all happy about that. But what we are not pleased about is the series of proposals that are being launched and for which it is not referred to coverage. There is a need to have an upper framework in the budgets to be followed by the State. It would be unnecessary to repeat to the representative Solholm what kind of situation the country has come into – with the threats we face internationally, the brutal increase in unemployment and the brutal increase in the number of jobs around it, not least in Solholm's own county, which is threatened every day by closure due to the difficult economic situation we have brought it into through a series of years where we have navigated completely different from the rest of the world. I also believe that Solholm, if he thinks about it, will agree that driving down the greatest reduction in taxes and taxes in history, including for the country's maritime sector, has been a significant contribution, perhaps also a necessary contribution, to meet the future better than would have been the alternative. The representative of Solholm must always consider what would have been the alternative to the economic policy pursued today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e157	I have a little bit of difficulty in understanding Right-wing arguments. First, the Right went from its promises of better framework conditions to the shipping industry long before this series of individual proposals that Ivar Kristiansen now uses as justification came into the Stortinget. Secondly, the Right's policy will now help to increase the number of unemployed when the Norwegian Seafarers are also going to fall as a result of not having the same framework conditions as the countries with which we compete. But what I would like to have answers to from Ivar Kristiansen is what's Right's actual reason for going against. Per-Kristian Foss has, as the representative Solholm quite rightly said, argued that he does not want to subsidize bartenders on ferries. He has also said that one wants to facilitate general framework conditions, and one does not want to distribute individual industries. On the other hand, there is a desire to have business-neutral schemes to treat all industries equally. That is the reason we have heard from the Minister of Finance, and as we have heard from several Right-wing representatives in different contexts. Ivar Kristiansen argues unilaterally with regard to interest rates today. In that case, it means that Ivar Kristiansen does not have the same fundamental objections to these types of arrangements that the Minister of Finance is at least expressing. So my question is short and good: what is the Right's actual reason for going against the proposals today, and going against improving the framework conditions of seafarers?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e166	I record a great deal of attention about the concept of ‘teachers’ in this debate. What I thought was that this debate was going to get a greater focus on the offshore situation, and I've said earlier in my main post that if that's possible, we're more than willing to discuss the device with regard to the allocated 550 million. kr. But I think we're probably living in a world other than the Center Party, at least in budgetary terms, because the Center Party is the only party that operates here without any kind of financial framework – they've never had it in budgetary terms. They throw themselves at any additional proposal, are in favour of increased use of oil revenues and phase in one billion after another as the debates run around. I see that gallant now also jumps on the proposal for the introduction of 20 pst. reimbursement scheme and phase-in of the full net pay scheme. There are no serious parts here in this room that so gallantly drive and triple with billions of dollars without a comma to indicate containment. It should have learned Enoch, who has been sitting in the government quarter earlier and depending on following the adopted budget, if he had benefited from being there over time. But it doesn't mean to discuss these issues as long as you operate completely without an economic limit. The representative of Enoxsen should be aware that we have a historically high amount allocated in this area today, much higher than when Enoxsen himself put in the government position and had a certain responsibility to prioritize this sector. But I see it's so much easier to play Monopoly once you've come into the situation that Enoxen himself has been in, including in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e175	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e179	In recent years, the policy-driven framework for Norwegian fleets has been changing steadily. It must be right to say that the situation has been totally uninvitable. We in the Workers' Party take our share of responsibility for it. The maritime industry is one of Norway’s most important industries — the whole maritime clustering of the workforce almost 80,000 people. Reiarlag is a decisive part of this cluster. This industry is one of the most international in Norway, and Norway is the third largest maritime nation in the world. It is now time to give this industry a stable and sustainable environment. It's a responsibility for all the parties in Stortinget, and we in the Labour Party will take our part. Not only have there been many improvements in the framework conditions for this industry, but there have also been very many proposals for improvements. In the previous period, several proposals were put forward and, at the latest, in the context of the revised budget in June 2001, it was decided to instruct the Government to make proposals for such improvements. The current government party – and especially the Right Party, but also the Christian People's Party – was actively involved in this work. Also in the election campaign the promises were made in this field, among others. promise party leader Jan Petersen in a letter to the Maritime Association of 29 June 2001 to introduce the corresponding framework conditions for Norwegian seafarers that the seafarers have in our neighbouring country. When the ballots were listed late in the evening of 10 September 2001, there was a clear majority of the elected roll-out representatives who had opted for better framework conditions for the shipping industry. This choice also led to a change of government, and everything was now at the ready for Stortinget's decisions from June and the promises of the election campaign to be put to work. Expectations were high, optimism in fleet layers the same. It was also a big surprise when the only proposal that the new government included in its budget was the proposal to exacerbate the framework conditions that had emerged from the previous government. As part of the budgetary process that year, the Committee, all with the exception of SV, asked the Government to make a proposal for a system to secure Norwegian seafarers' competitiveness as soon as possible. A similar proposal was also adopted in the revised national budget last spring. These decisions have been ignored by the Government. The size has not been given such a holistic review. We have therefore not been given the opportunity to discuss this matter properly. We have not received any breakdowns showing the situation in Norway compared to the situation in other countries. We know that the EU has had an offensive in this area, but the Government has not given the Stortinget the opportunity to debate how to meet the offensive. For example, how much does it cost? the different models chosen by the different EU countries? Is the competition in Norway as distorted as the industry claims? Or is it so that the nutrition e.g. only include worse conditions in Norway? Had the government done so as a multiple, including the government party itself, have asked for several times, the Storting would have had a far better basis for taking this discussion. We in the Labour Party have had an ambition, simply to contribute to stable and sustainable framework conditions. That is why last year we invited a wide-ranging compromise on shipping policy. For another important industry for Norway, the petroleum industry, we have done it. This industry has been and is so important to the country that one has managed to become a few of the most important policy guidelines. In fact, it has been a political objective in itself to create a stable and sustainable framework for this industry. Since the early beginning of the oil age over 30 years ago, there have been three major oil policy settlements on the Storting. Across different ideology and approaches, a clear multiplicity has succeeded in becoming a few of the main lines of oil policy, most recently two years ago. The development of Norway as an oil nation has been an unparalleled success. The broad opening up of policy and stability that has led to this has been a decisive factor in bringing it about. Another area where cooperation has been successful is tax policy. Also, there was a failure in different positions to get to a compromise. The cooperation we have had on oil policy should be a model also for our shipping policy. The Labour Party's invitation to such a settlement last spring was to my big surprise met with a cold shoulder. The reason was given when the government's draft budget was presented last fall. The improvements promised had been replaced with improvements. I would like to make it clear that in the Labour Party in this case we have not had any fixed positions or preferred models. The only thing we've wanted is for us to sit down, discuss and become a few things about what should be the framework conditions for this sector. I think it's sad that the government party has not used the possibility that the invitation from us gave. When we put forward the proposal that is being discussed today, it was to give the government a new chance. And I remind you once again that in this room there is a wide majority that has been selected from the party that went to the choice on better framework conditions for this industry. When the government party in these days has been subjected to a strong pressure, it is because they themselves have contributed and created expectations. When spokesmen from these parties in the West say it's embarrassing and difficult to represent these parties locally, it's the government party's own responsibility. It's those who have made the promises, and it's those who have broken these promises. I had hoped for peace in this matter. If a positive decision is not taken later today, this matter will follow us in all budgetary processes ahead. A settlement might have contributed to the government's work. This working space clearly did not want the Government, and I am sure we will meet again in the context of the debate on the revised national budget. Last year, Sweden, Finland and a number of other EU countries decided to introduce different types of net pay schemes. These schemes indirectly exacerbate the competition conditions of the Norwegian fleets. These are still losing competitiveness due to schemes put in place by our neighbouring countries. It is claimed that the arrangements put in place by our neighbouring countries have made their labour force 40 pst. cheaper than Norwegian labour force. When one is going to compete for the same assignment, we all realize that it's going to be particularly difficult to win that competition. Perhaps without comparison is the industry we are talking about today, the industry that best consumes the title of district industry. In fact, there are seafarers in all the municipalities of the country, but most of the cages in what we may call district municipalities. It is also true that many of the reiarlags we have in Norway, which still have Norwegian seafarers on board, are established and operated in so-called district municipalities, and they play a decisive role in the local environment. If these fleets do not allow them to continue in Norway, it will mean a large loss of jobs, a large number of those in the district work force. Today, all competitive business is in a very difficult situation. And we actually lose as many as 75 jobs every day, a lot of them are also in District Norway. If we are not able to reverse this trend, we are at risk of changing the whole map of Norway in a very short time. We have today a possibility to at least slow down some of the flagging. My claim is that it will be no to our proposal today, it is the same as saying yes to the flagging out of even more Norwegian jobs. In the absence of own arguments, some of the representatives of the government party have fallen for the temptation to suspect others' involvement in this matter. I would like to repeat: the starting point of the Labour Party has been that we want to work together to create a stable and sustainable framework for this industry. I think it's a shame that the parties that promised the most are those with which it would be difficult to work together.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e215	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e218	The representative Aksensen has gone very high on the track in this case, and relatively heavy shooting is being used here. But I'm not so sure if this is a matter of working order. It's just as much about willingness to give priority – perhaps even more about willingness to give priority than work. I again remind the representative Aksensen that this year we have a historically high amount, decided to phase into this year's budget, for net pay and reimbursement, thanks to the budget agreement with the Progress Party. Then it doesn't, in my opinion, just keep talking neatly about the industry, and talk neatly about the importance this industry has for District Norway, but it's also about the willingness to prioritize. When the Axis goes so high and uses words such as credibility and a breach of promises, the question is: Why did the Workers' Party not choose to give priority to this industry more than the government parties did when they had the chance to do in the 2003 budget? The representative Aksenssen put as the Council of State in the previous government, and whose concepts of credibility and prioritisation should have any retrospective effect and significance, why was the last time the government proposed to phase out the reimbursement scheme for the precisely offshore fleet? I think that when we use the debate time around the concept of credibility, there are some people who have a certain need to go a little bit lower on the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e225	We can take a discussion about history. And as I said in my main post, I'd like to admit that the Labour Party has been helping to create the uncertainty and instability that have been. The most important thing for us now is to be involved and contribute to the opposite. But then you can't actually measure the different parts the same way, because there are parties that have had a completely different and much higher profile and that have come with much clearer promises. We almost have to demand that the parties that promise the most are the ones that work the most to put these promises into practice. I have been involved in several election campaigns and have been disfellowshiped, not least from representatives from the Right, but also from the Christian People's Party, because we in the Labour Party have done far too little in this matter. I am also sure that we have lost many votes in connection with the election because we have not managed to get more than we did. But we didn't go into the election campaign and promised gold and green forests for this industry. It was completely different that did. So I'm actually going to say that when we talk about a broken promise in this context, it's those who have promised, who must now be measured, not those who didn't promise anything. So when it comes to trust, it's the trustworthiness of the parties where the party leader writes letters and promises things to the groups that are most affected by these conditions, which one actually has to ask questions about. So it's said that it's a historically high amount. That's right. It is not the government party that has the honor. It's also claimed one wanted to dispose of these money in another way. It's okay, but one never came to the Stortinge with a suggestion about it. If one wanted to sit down and discuss whether we use the money in this area in the best possible way, we could be in the Labour Party and take that discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e234	The chairman of the Committee was in his main statement that we should work for a stable framework. We see the history of this matter. Since 1996, the framework conditions have changed at least 24 times for our seafarers and for our shipping – 24 times! So I'm very happy that the chairman of the committee underlines the importance of stable framework conditions. I also want to pay some tribute to the Progress Party, of which I am a part, who has been stable in this matter all along and has been the spearhead that the Norwegian sailor and shipping industry need. We were very pleased when the Workers' Party presented proposals on net pay arrangements for the offshore industries, although it is far too small. Why aren't the bending loads included? Why aren't other categories involved? After all, we are also a bit in the living room when you want to postpone until we get this message that has been notified by the Government, to assess the conditions for other categories. We think it would have been much more offensive for the Workers' Party to add the chest to now and say that now we are going to harmonise with the rest of Europe, we want a shipping trip in the future, now the shipowners and the employees of the shipping companies are no longer going to be in doubt. So my question to the chairman of the committee is: what is the reason why this category has been separated and will wait to continue the uncertainty that has long been present for all other shipping in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e239	I might agree that the Progress Party in this case can beat itself more on the chest than anyone else, but it can actually do the Progress Party in all things. The problem for us other politicians is that we should sum up all the promises, and then we should try to translate them into reality. In any case, I am pleased that the Progress Party's policy to date has not been translated into reality. Then I think it would have been difficult for both seafarers and others. And I also agree that it would be much more offensive if all of the parties here now said, "Well, we're setting up the best arrangements for all of the industries right away." What's been our goal is, as I've repeated several times, to get a broad deal. We don't have any locked models. What has been decisive for us is that this agreement must be wide, and then the governing parties must be on it, otherwise one will not have the stability that one needs in this area. When the government has now said that it will come with a message, just too late, we think that the message must provide the basis that the Storting needs to compare the different parts of this industry in Norway with the framework conditions that we have in our neighbouring countries, etc. Then it's true that we've now extracted a small part of the fleet layers to give them better framework conditions. That was to the extent that we did in connection with the Stoltenberg Government's budget in 2001. We tried to take that part of the industry that we found the most urgent. Then there were clearly distorting rules on Danish and Swedish ferries, and we saw that we had to match it, we had to stop the very clear signals of relocation, so it was the ferry fleet that had to get those arrangements. Today, we feel that there are other fleets that are now in a hurry, namely those associated with the offshore fleet, that is, where the danger of relocation is greatest. But I totally agree that what should be the goal in the long term is that before the shipping industry, everyone should have the same conditions as in our neighbouring country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e250	In many ways it's a little strange to observe this debate, where really the most important thing from most parties is to say that other parties have been running with a breach of promises, that other parties have promised things they can't hold. I think that's pretty much the same thing, except for SV, which has actually never promised any relief for the shipping industry. No budget for some time has we thought that the shipping industry was so special that there was a basis for very special arrangements for it. In many ways it is a paradox that one of the oldest and most viable Norwegian industries, namely the maritime industry, has been able to create the impression that this industry needs to have state support in particular in order to be competitive and viable. It is an example of an extremely skilled lobbying campaign over very many years that one has managed to establish it – we say – generally accepted truth that this industry needs a crutch from the state. Now we also accept in SV – and that is what is new in today’s setting – that parts of this industry may need, at least for a period of time, some help. The Swedish authorities have not previously promised that. The Chairman of the Committee, Akssen, called for a compromise in this matter, and that is what SV has put in it. What lies within this compromise from the SV side is one of the most important things, namely that we now demand that shipping should give something back to Norwegian society. Many of the support schemes that the shipping industry has actually received over the years, we have experienced as one-sided support from the state to an industry that we have little been able to see documented effects of going back to Norwegian society. The compromise SV launches today, and I also hope that more, and perhaps even a majority in the Chamber, will support, has this in itself: we provide net pay arrangements for the offshore fleet, including, of course, this ferry company, which already has a net pay scheme. But then we put back some explicit demands, namely on apprentices, on innovation, on employment in Norway. This is the compromise that I hope and believe the Storting can be reassembled at the end of this day, for this is a very good and thoughtful proposal that I hope more than SV can support when we come to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e259	There might have been no specific question here. But first I want to say that it is quite right that SV has been consistent in this matter, they have never promised anything more than what they have held – they have not promised anything either. It was probably a former prime minister who said that the only thing he promised was not to promise anything, and he would keep it. And so, SV is right. But this industry was not primarily asking for support from the state. What is the situation is, unfortunately, that our neighbouring countries have put in place mechanisms to indirectly lose our own fleets in competition. And what the Labour Party and SV are quite a few things about is that we have to work internationally to fight against that kind of tax dumping. That's why I'm glad that a co-consultant's committee actually ends up with that requirement. The adjustment must also try to do so. It is true that, in advance of the Stoltenberg Government's proposal to provide a net pay regime for ferries, the Minister of Finance was in contact with the finance ministers both in Sweden and in Denmark in the hope of getting them to drop these schemes. Had no other country had these arrangements, we didn't have to have them either in Norway. So I actually thought that in the process that has been at the forefront of this, SV should have praise. They have actually tried to participate constructively in order to get a setup, and unlike the government party, which has clear promises, and which has no part in it, SV, who has not promised anything, wants to get a solution. After reading the revised proposal that has now been put into place, I would at least recommend that the Labour Party vote for it. Of course, it has always been an intention that when fleet laws get better arrangements than other parts of the business, they themselves should be involved and contribute so that it returns to the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e272	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e275	Norwegian shipping and framework conditions have been a repeat in this room for many years, without this industry, which is so important to Norway, having had a sufficient impact on its views. The last round of the battle for the framework conditions was started with the actions of the seafarers and organisations last summer. It was a pity that Norwegian seafarers and Norwegian shipping had for too long been a caste in business policy. This whole fall was recorded by the maritime industry through consultations and actions and the debate on the framework conditions for shipping in connection with the treatment of the state budget for the current year. As the position shows, the political majority, consisting of the government parties and the Socialist Left, have not in any way been able to meet the industry's general recommendations with something that really matters. We fear – and expect – that many shipping companies are now taking the consequences that the political majority will not give them the conditions they have set up or are in the process of establishing in European competitor countries. For the Progress Party, this is completely incomprehensible. In a situation of increasing unemployment and considerable problems in the export industry, there is no desire to facilitate private jobs in the private sector in Norway! One forgets – or chooses to ignore – that shipping is the second largest export industry in the country, and that the enterprises related to the maritime business environment represent 9 pst. of the value creation of Norwegian business. The industry has shown that when the framework conditions are good, they grow – and significantly. I would also like to remind you that on land, the maritime cluster has a geographical spread that ensures employment and settlement along the coast. This is among the facts of the Business School BI documented in the project ‘A value-creating Norway’ and in other studies of the importance of industry for the Norwegian economy. It is important to be aware that the maritime industry is Norway’s only globally leading competence-based industry. The sale of shipping services abroad amounted to more than 81 billion in 2001 and represents 11 pst. of all exports. This shows figures from the Statistical Central Bureau. Every five export crowns in the balance of payments come from shipping if one ignores oil and gas exports. In addition, all exports of newly built ships, marine equipment and services are added. The industry is characterised by extensive and active private Norwegian ownership, which has also meant a lot in the districts. The Progress Party wishes to pursue an industrial policy that facilitates such private ownership and initiative to have development and survival opportunities in Norway. We have always worked to create a business-friendly climate that makes shipping and the entire maritime business viable – not only in words, but also in action. There is no industry or industry in recent years that has so much been a caste ball in the political system. I mentioned a whole 24 proposals for weakening Norwegian shipping and the competitiveness of shipping companies that have been presented by changing governments since 1996 in connection with the state budget or revised budget. Based on previous decisions in the Grand Duchy, the Government has put European rules on shipping companies and seafarers in view. What has been the result of not following up is the loss of opportunities. All deviations from EU guidelines are a loss of opportunities and jobs across the country. That's the actual ratio. It makes no sense for Norway in this area – where we are in the world class – to be harmed on its own free will by having a code worse for business than competitors in the EU have. In a country with four million people, one would think it would be possible to agree on long-term lines that are obviously in favour of the country of origin. Once 12 EU countries have agreed on a single currency, it would be thought that a common shipping policy could be agreed in Norway, but we were wrong in the Progress Party. We see the negative consequences of this. The supply and off-shore equipment is in the process of being flagged or prepared for deflagration. Only within this sector can 5000 jobs related to this environment be lost. The offshore fleet are floating knowledge establishments where high-tech solutions are developed in an interaction between shipping companies and in connection with business, oil industry, shipyards and subcontractors. We're now seeing a shipping environment that's about to slide. EU countries, with Sweden at the forefront, now see the possibility of attracting skills, jobs and value creation. It is also part of the Lisbon strategy to build the EU as a maritime major act by 2010. The Progress Party has always been consistent in shipping policy. For many years we have been engaged in and working to ensure the international competitiveness of the shipping industry. Harmonization with the conditions of European competition is a ‘must’ if we are to retain Norway as a maritime power. We will show you, among other things: To the bottom. O. No 27 for 2002–03, where the Progress Party was in favour of a fully European competitive shipping tax, and where we showed how a net pay regime for Norwegian seafarers can be set up in line with that of Sweden. We follow our consistent line in this setting and have two suggestions together with the Center Party. The first is immediate action to reverse the offshore/supply deflagration process. It means raising the level of aid in the reimbursement scheme to 20 pst. the gross wage and salary costs of all ships which are exposed to international competition in the scheme, including tugs, bow loaders and other categories of vessels excluded under the transport conditions at the same level of reimbursement. We also have a proposal to explore a net model that can be applied to all Norwegian seafarers who are exposed to international competition. It is assumed that the Government will present concrete proposals in the revised 2003 national budget, with effect from 1 January 2004. If these proposals had received a majority in this room, we would have got the arrangements shipping needs to continue to have the opportunity to be competitive, world-leading, with private ownership and head office out of Norway. Unfortunately, these proposals are being put to the vote. We therefore agree as a subsidiary approach to the brother part of the Workers' Party's comments and both proposals – the proposal for an early extension of the net pay scheme to include offshore employees in the NOR register from 1 July, as well as the proposal for requirements on apprenticeships and net pay for training measures. Unfortunately, the Labour Party's proposals do not gather enough support in this Chamber to enable them to be realised. There is no majority of proposals that can save Norwegian jobs on Norwegian ships to a greater extent. I understand that Norwegian shipping companies will now not lose any more time to get to the heights competitive with European shipping companies and see the need to flag Norwegian ships to other registers. It's sad for thousands of seafarers who are now at risk of losing their jobs. This is sad for Norway because shipping has proven its own excellence in terms of significant export revenues and ring-fences for Norwegian industry. Now, we could just give it a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit So finally, a few words about the notification of the shipping policy, which will focus on the environment, safety and international framework conditions. It is well and good to have the environmental, safety and other issues addressed, but concrete proposals on international framework conditions need to be made. The whole industry agrees. We don't need any more investigations and assessments about this. There are enough documents to wallpaper the entire staging room describing the necessary measures and needs for shipping. What is the fact is that there has been no political will to implement all the necessary measures in the light of the needs of shipping. What's the actual ratio is that this is now not real. We all have to take the consequences, whether it's for seafarers, shipping or the political majority. The next year’s shipping report may, unfortunately, be a message that takes into account the reasons for Norway’s closure as a maritime major act. I would like to address the proposals from the Progress Party and the Centre Party, referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e317	The representative Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e322	Earlier in the debate, I have given tribute to the representative Hedstrøm and the Progress Party for the fact that in this year's budget we have put in place a historically high amount for net wages and reimbursement arrangements. I'm glad. The offshore has received considerable attention in the course of this case. It may not be so strange, as it is the fleet that currently seems to be the most threatened by flagging out, with the consequences it will have, both for the companies as such and for the communities they represent. The representative Aksensen concluded a reply in reply saying that they were willing in many ways to look at and assess the scheme of the amounts allocated in total to net wages and reimbursement schemes. When the government parties have not initiated this, it is because we are bound by a budgetary agreement with the Progress Party. My question to the representative Hedstrøm is: From the current situation of the offshore fleet, is the Progress Party towards the revised national budget willing to take a round and discuss the distribution and arrangement of the allocated amounts for net wages and reimbursement arrangements?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e331	I will start with the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Advance Party, which we saw as a bottom plan. As a 14 pst party in this hall, we couldn't get the government parties with more than what we did. Initially, they lifted all the arrangements for seafarers and shipping, i.e. the net pay system for ferries and the other reimbursement schemes. We got this lifted in place again. In addition, we got reduced tonnage taxes, all of them, by approx. 30 pst. I do not think any other party could have contributed to a better solution in the Great Britain in the parliamentary situation we are in. Of course, in terms of redistribution between different categories of vessels, we can be involved in discussing this. But we have a moral responsibility, because the ferry companies have based themselves on the net pay system as a long-term framework condition out of the landfill period. We know that Color Line has already ordered a jumbo ferry, where Norway will be the leader. This will be the most modern and largest ferry in the world, with a lot of ring-effects – tourism and other activities. It costs SEK 2.2 billion in order at Kvaerner Masa Yard in Finland, with at least 10 pst. in ring effects – 220 million. kr for yard, supplier industry, supply service, etc. in Norway. They have done this in confidence that the framework conditions on which the Progress Party has participated must be stable. Of course, we can go in and discuss things. But I feel that we have a moral responsibility towards those who, because of their net pay arrangements, have gone to giant investments that have significant ring-fences in Norway and create jobs. We have a responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e340	This matter is important, and it is also difficult. It's important because it's about an industry that we actually want to have in Norway. It's part of our history, and it's a natural part of Norwegian business. It is difficult because the proposal is actually about tax subsidies, and SV is against tax subsidies, because there is no good industrial policy. But we've said we're willing to look at a form where we make some demands on the industry that can improve the conditions of the maritime industries in Norway. At today’s main hall, there is a potential majority for improving Norwegian seafarers’ competitive conditions. SV wants to target the use of funds, preferably by reintroducing all or part of the corporate tax, which is to be used again for renewal and for the use of Norwegian knowledge and competence in the maritime industries. This is just SV that wants. But since this matter is important to us, we have proposed an interim solution in which we want to extend the net pay system to the offshore sector, in return for conditions being imposed on all shipping companies that benefit from this scheme. There shall be an average of two apprentices per. boat, 470 kroner per day. person per person months shall be paid into a fund to enhance industry competence and we shall require evidence that companies are using resources to invest in health, environment and safety, technology development and innovation. The Progress Party has proposed a billion-dollar tax subsidy, which does not guarantee any improvement for Norwegian seafarers, or guarantees that something will be returned to society. Why is it so wrong to set conditions to ensure that aid schemes are used to strengthen the industries for which support is sought? The Labour Party has said that they support SV. Will the Progress Party also support SV, subsidiary?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e349	We have received this bench proposal from SV on the table today. This matter has been under consideration for a long time. Both the views of the Labour Party and the views of the Advance Party have been known, so if SV had had had any realistic relationship with the positions that have been known for a long time, they would have entered into negotiations with us at a much earlier time. When I read this proposal from SV, I see that there is some positive in it. That, I must stress, will not solve the problems of shipping. It includes only a small niche of Norwegian shipping. And we know that it will help to create another special order within shipping. We have three from before, as far as I know. It's going to be the fourth special arrangement, and then maybe we'll come back and get even more. I feel that this proposal lacks the overall grip. But we're going to study it carefully, because although many of the elements that are in this proposal, are just a tiny little step in the right direction, we want to contribute. As far as the second section is concerned, I interpret it as a violation of the budgetary agreement we have with the government parties, as new expenditure is to be passed on to the ferry companies. In relation to that agreement, I can at least provisionally interpret it as a breach, but we will get back to it in the course of the debate when the parliamentary leader and others have been in and assess this, and then we will see what the final conclusion will be. My main answer is that if SV had really wanted to do something for Norwegian shipping, they would have stood by earlier and made good suggestions at a long earlier time, for this is just a very small contribution, which would hardly have any greater significance for Norwegian shipping.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e358	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e361	Let me open by repeating to the representative Hedstrøm that the Advance Party had invited us to negotiations earlier, we should have asked. Politics is not a game. Politics is not a game where we can throw out wild ideas and promises without any consequences. But when I sat and prepared for the debate last night and looked a bit on the Internet, I must honestly admit that I got a strong feeling that this case has been treated as a play. And when I hear the debate between the Right and the Workers' Party here today, it still sounds like a game – like we're sitting in the sandbox and throwing some sand at each other, owes to the other because it was him who started, and I'm a ramp, at least you're worse. I cannot take part in the debate on who has promised the most, who has jumped the fastest from his promises, and who is to blame. When I read the big debates that have been on the framework conditions for Norwegian shipping companies and seafarers in the past, it strikes me that the Right has talked most about the Workers' Party, and the Workers' Party has talked most about the Right, and no one really has the power to discuss the matter. For all parties, with the exception of the SV and the Progress Party, there is still a difference in substance between the message you have when you are in position and the message you have when you are in opposition. I'm assuming everyone's got it. I have to say, I'm not particularly grateful for the promises that these parties have made, because it is actually we who are responsible for it when the promises are not fulfilled. SV has always said no to the net pay scheme. We disagreed that it was introduced for the ferry companies, and we have disagreed that the scheme should now be extended. In this respect, I could have talked for a long and warm – or perhaps lukewarmly – about monopoly capitalism, about the blackmail of capital by the nation state, about the consequences of States actually undermining each other, and about the total distribution of social shocks. But I'm going to do it a little bit. Because there is no doubt that SV understands that different and rapidly changing framework conditions create frustration in the industry. I fully understand that. Nor should there be any doubt that SV understands that Norwegian seafarers are in a very difficult situation, under a constant threat of flagging out. We get it. We're on the verge of the day. We have had a clear position on the matter before, but I hope that we have not been perceived by anyone as being unaccompanied. On the contrary, we have tried to signal it throughout this process. We've had a lot of meetings with representatives from the industry, and I don't have numbers on how many phones. And yes, we have received the message. But if anything has disappointed me in this process, it is the attitude 'everything or nothing' that I think we have been met with: either you give us a statutory net paycheck, or we flag out! Unfortunately, this ultimatum has forced us to say ‘nothing’, sail if we would have liked to discuss what is between everything and nothing. We've challenged intermediate solutions, but I must honestly admit that it's been very quiet in relation to intermediate solutions. I disagree with the Workers' Party when they say that we have no choice, because Sweden and Denmark have introduced net wages. Of course we have a choice. We can choose not to. But I disagree equally with today's Business and State Council Per-Kristian Foss when today's Business writes in leadership that net wages are bad policies, because you break with the principle of business neutrality. If there's something I'm having trouble with, it's this floating talk about nutrition neutrality, that works completely without content. We defend the use of selective food policy instruments where appropriate. We have no problem with that. The device is essential. The tax arrangements that Norwegian shipping companies have today are unfortunately completely unconditional and binding, very little targeted, and we have no guarantee of what we get back. I have registered that representatives of the Government explain their failures with their own programmable policies with the tight budget. So now the tight budget is the explanation that the Right cannot fulfill its own enterprise policy promises. That's okay with me. But I have to admit that I get tired of turning up the expectations without showing the ability to meet when it really is, and letting other political parties take the burden it is to say no. What is good business policy? From this government I get one answer, and it's tax law. It's tax-free, it's tax-free again, and it's business-neutral tax-free. It doesn't hold up, it's not enough, and it's not the right tool. I believe we should have taken a completely different grip. We have used this case to propose that others take action in relation to getting good industrial policy on the table. This last fall and winter has focused a great deal on the deflagration of Norwegian industry. I think everyone gets a little bad taste in the mouth of moving out Norwegian jobs because you can save a few dollars with a little bit cheaper Chinese or Lithuanian hands. I think most people have been ashamed that the state instrument stimulates that kind of relocation. But that this has actually been a conscious political priority as part of a strategy to help Norwegian business to internationalize, not so many have spoken equally about. I record that the Government has reversed its position on this, and I would like to congratulate the Council of State for taking action. Capital flows freely in the globalised economy. We can't stop it unless we do some political action, which only SV goes into this hall. You don't have to flag out because you can earn more by moving the workforce. You don't have to. Neither Norwegian furniture industry, Norwegian toothbrush producers nor Norwegian shipping companies have to. You can get motivated by other goals and means than that. Shipping is no different from other industries in relation to this issue. And let me make it clear: No matter what the Storting decides or does not decide here today, Norwegian shipping companies are free to fly out tomorrow. We can't stop that. I have seen, via various media queries, that the Shipowners' Association is more than helpful in assisting with advice in the flagging process. I'm sorry. In this case, we have gone very far to give a signal that we want Norwegian shipping to still be part of Norwegian business. But I must say that I am provoked by this message: If we don't get what we want, we flag out anyway! And sail if I have no choice but to appeal to social responsibility, with little hope that Norwegian seafarers and Norwegian communities affected by individual shipowners' profitability analyses will direct themselves to the right. In the budgetary agreement between the Government and the Progress Party in the autumn of 2002, there was an agreement not to weaken the reimbursement scheme or the net pay arrangements for the ferries in this large-scale period. We've taken note of that. We have taken note of that agreement, and have made an overall political assessment that suggests that it is better to have conditions attached to the pot used under framework conditions for Norwegian seafarers/Norwegian shipping companies than to have no conditions at all. We have therefore promoted the subsidiary proposal distributed in the Chamber to extend the net pay system to the offshore sector, against linking this type of condition to the scheme. We attach conditions to apprentices, in relation to the payment of a certain amount to a fund to contribute to raising skills and recruitment measures, and we attach conditions to documenting what everyone has said to us is the advantage, innovation, innovation and industrial development of this industry. Well, document it, then you get net pay! I have a big problem understanding why it's so hard to address these requirements. I can't understand it. I hope that the industries that have been active in this matter realise that the Workers' Party has said that they subsidiaryly support the SV's proposal, and that there is still a slight hope that there can be a majority in this case. The principal capital of Norway is knowledge and competence. Norway’s main capital is the effort of Norwegian workers. This should be the basis of the jobs that we have not yet created. But these these can be very fast just flashes. They just get fluttered if you think that good business policy is equal to tax relief. However, knowledge, competence and efforts of Norwegian workers can also be the basis for good industrial policy, if targeted. That's what we're trying to do through the proposal that we've distributed in the hall. We're trying to turn the non-directional tax subsidies into more targeted measures. Yes, we want maritime industries in Norway. Yes, we want Norwegian competence and knowledge in Norway, and we want technological development and innovation. We're saying, well, we're agreeing to extend the net pay scheme to get this back, to fulfill the promises you've made. I would like to take up with this the proposals No. 4 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e397	The representative Elvik has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e402	The representative Elvik concluded with what was really going to be my main question here, that proposal No. 5 in the setting will be replaced by the bench proposal presented. But then a little bit to SV's argument in this matter. I feel that until today SV has had a clear profile and ridden this profile very high – you have been against the net pay scheme. The representative, Elvik, has also said very unfairly today that the industrial policy of the government parties is most characterised by tax relief. You have ridden the profile very high – for net pay. And it has been argued that this relationship has been under the vignette «taxelette to the richest of the richest», which has also been profiled very high. When one sees that SV today makes a proposal that actually beats the appropriations that lie in the historically high amount of reimbursement and net pay, is my question: isn't this a new, if not a good, example that SV is trying to ride two horses in this case as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e409	How many horses we ride should remain secret. But as I said in my main post, this is about a sober assessment. For us, it is better to extend the scheme, for we get conditions attached to all ships that are covered by the net pay scheme, than to keep the pot in relation to the net pay for ferry companies that are there today as today. I have seen signals from many teams saying that we could have re-prioritised today, it is not certain that we would have prioritised the ferry companies at the top. Then it's better for us to expand the arrangement so that we get it targeted, that the arrangement expands to those who need it more than those who have it today, and that you get attached to it. I feel that if the proposal that is on the table is adopted today, we have taken a good policy on nutrition. Then we turn a system that is completely inflexible to good industrial policy, to technological development and to the focus on knowledge and competence – what everyone really wants. We don't do that unless we set these terms. How many horses we ride, get unanswered, but at least I feel that the grip we take is very correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e416	Åsa Elvik started his post with almost to owe the Progress Party, not to have been on the track before to possibly get a deal. I want to say it's a little weird. After all, the party of progress has always been the party that has been the strongest in order for us to have a net pay arrangement. SV has had the opposite direction. So it began to crack cracks in SV. It is a bit demanding when one just requires the Progress Party to have an overview of what is happening internally in the SV. What I've experienced for a few years at Stortinget is that Øystein Djupedal has repeatedly stood on this pulpit and said: Reiarar has enough and can't get more! For this reason, he has opposed the net income tax compensation scheme, the reimbursement scheme, tonnage tax, etc. You have an SV that has changed its view. If SV wants to do something about this, it must be SV's responsibility to come to us others who have been in favour of this all along, and ask for negotiations and not all of a sudden the last night before the debate comes up with a proposal that a thinker should get more. The strange thing is that SV has not realized that it does not play a role for the riders if they have their fleets in Norway or abroad. The tens are just as good. Likely, they will stretch more about those flags off anyway. But what SV's holding always has been, is just kicking all Norwegian seafarers on land and destroying the nutrient base of Norwegian maritime nutrition, within shipyards, ship equipment and ship design. When Norwegian fleets move out, it may be uninteresting to use Norwegian competence in these areas in Norway. So now the SV is responsible for getting to that compromise. They can't blame others when we have this served at the breakfast table today early.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e422	Because history is also written by reference to mass destruction, it is necessary to clarify some obvious misunderstandings. When we say at the SV group meeting that we are against net pay, and at the same time say that we are willing to talk about intermediate solutions, it becomes silent both in the Stortinget and unfortunately in large parts of the industry. I know I'm not allowed to say that I'm sorry, but at least I'm very sorry for that. The proposal which has been amended and which is on the table today is the further processing of a proposal which we presented in the Committee on Tuesday. Yes, it is late, but the Progress Party still has the chance to vote for it and be part of it and take responsibility for cutting Norwegian offshore.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e431	There were a couple of relationships in the article to Åsa Elvik I would like to comment on, because there is unfortunately something misleading. A tendency to create a rhetorical point or to create myths, then to attack them. That applies to two relationships. First of all, we're going to give tax credits to the richest. It's repeated and repeated, but it won't be true anymore. What business has asked for, and received, is tax relief. ==References== 80 pst. of the tax payments made in these two years have been granted to strengthen business. The wealth of people who own and run businesses becomes a secondary question. The aim is to give business better conditions so that they can renew and drive on in an enhanced way. The second myth that Åsa Elvik took up in his post is that of industry neutrality, and that the government and the party from which it originated have nutritional neutrality as a superior principle. If you look at the special issue we're dealing with today, we've given you record high transfers to support these fleets, as they've said before in the debate. Furthermore, we have introduced tax reliefs in the fleet tax administration, and there is hardly any industry that has been given such favourable arrangements by this government as this industry. So I really appreciate that these myths don't get re-trained, and repeat and repeat. They won't be true anymore if they're repeated many times. This government enters and critically assesses which support schemes may be appropriate, but we are not neutral. We have entrusted our politicians, both at large and in the government, with an assessment of concrete measures that can help the individual industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e438	As far as I can understand, this was a line to the representative Ivar Kristiansen's line to me, because I didn't even talk about tax havens for the richest of my post. I talked about what is good business policy and not. There's a significant difference. And if we're going to start the finance debate here, at least it's going to be a long evening meeting. I can't understand the signals from Per-Kristian Foss other than that the government wants a business-neutral tax policy. In any case, I think that if you don't resort to the argument in relation to the tight budget, the only thing you have to fall back on is that this industry should not be different from others. I disagree that we are going to have a business-neutral tax policy. For example, I see myself. that the differentiated employer’s fee is a glittering industrial and district policy instrument that completely conflicts with industrial fiscal neutrality. That the government speaks with many tongues, I can't take responsibility for it, but when Per-Kristian Foss is so clear in his signals, with the position he has in the government, at least I take the political signal quite clearly in which direction the government wants to drive this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e445	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e448	I just want to pick up the thread from the answer I now got on my line, and make a little final comment. I mean that when it's clearly said from my side on behalf of the Government that we're open to providing special support schemes, and giving it to many, many industries, it shows that this is a principle. Then it's a little bit unlikely to claim that we don't mean it and don't do it, and then attack us for it. When it comes to the debate we have today on Document No. 8:21, I'd like to put this in the frame of the contours that we've seen multiple times. It's the contours of an overwhelm policy without interference. There is no doubt that this matter, which concerns seafarers, offshore companies and Norwegian shipping, is important for securing Norwegian seafarers' stable framework conditions. It's very important and it's very important. There is also no doubt that this is a good thing, like many other good things. It's always going to be like that, and it's unfortunate that several big things are happening without interference. Norway is an important shipping nation. I want to appeal to the industry to continue to participate in community construction. The oil company has paid well for offshore services on a Norwegian base, and they have been taxed for this. The fleet should be detained by flagging. The grass may not be so much greener on the other side of the pelvis. I want to warn you about a psychosis where a attracter hasty conclusions and moves businesses out of Norway. The importance of Norway, the communities and, in particular, the recruitment of quality teams should ensure that the riders should be employed in Norwegian. And when I look at the accounting figures for a lot of riders' teams, they're actually not bad. I would like to underline the importance of continuing to pursue a stable and prudent fiscal policy in the long term. It is good for both family, municipalities and business. It is of great importance to the exercise of monetary policy. We've seen this quite clearly since the last fall we got a tight budget, even though we've got a lot of criticism because we haven't been able to accomplish all the good things. The tight fiscal policy that this has led to has helped in the winter to lay the foundations for two interest reductions and a sluggish dollar rate, and that is what the industry is asking for. What is important now is that we all support the creation of monetary policy so that we get an additional interest rate cut. Financial policy and income policy cooperation cannot lead directly to lower interest rates, but if they are pursued accurately, monetary policy can in a way contribute to the weakening of the krone price and to a non-reliance with a sustained strong krone price level. This is the best we can do in relation to the competitive industry. The government has now started work on a maritime communication to increase market access for Norwegian shipping services, stricter environmental and safety requirements at sea and to increase the use of domestic maritime transport as some of the most important issues. A central question will be how the value creation and employment of this competitive industry can develop over time. I want to give credit to the Council of State for this initiative, and I hope that the message contains clarifying conclusions with regard to further developing this industry. It's important at a time when our competitors are positioning themselves and important premiscuous suppliers of international shipping policy are moving into new positions. I think it is important that Norwegian framework conditions are largely in harmony with those we meet with our competitors. Here, of course, there will be degrees of balances with respect to harmony, but it is superior that we provide a good framework for shipping, not least by guiding a policy that provides lower taxes and charges. Of the 19 billion we've given in tax bills, about 80 pst. have been sent to the business community to strengthen their ability to employ as much as possible. There are major challenges we are facing on the Norwegian base. This will be taken up in the message, and we look forward to the conclusion that will come about. a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e465	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e468	«While the grass grows, the cow dies», it is a saying which is called. It's been quite many months since we were presented in the Business Committee for the situation of the maritime industry. Both the Maritime Organisations and the Shipowners’ Association have met repeatedly and have been in dialogue with the Business Committee. The employment situation in Norway is becoming difficult and calls for action. Lower interest rates and interest rates are the government's answer, and we all agree. But then it's over. The answer we're given is, although Gedrem doesn't admit it, general instruments, nutrition neutrality and communications. It has to be so that we have to be able to take action quickly where possible, as we propose today. Christian People's Party and Right say in the setting: ‘These members refer to’ — so they refer to the notified shipping message — ‘that this does not prevent the Government from taking active action in the meantime, if the situation so requires’. I ask, is it not that the situation now requires action to be taken against this industry? And what measures can the representative Gedrem imagine that the government might be able to put in place, if the government thinks that the situation now requires it, and looks with the same eyes at the situation that we in the Workers' Party and the other parties do?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e478	I feel that it's a little difficult to figure out what the Labour Party actually means by these questions. I don't want to be unfine, but I get so many different signals. The working party gives the closest impression that they are working for a full net pay scheme and to give seafarers optimal conditions. But they don't follow this in Stortinget to the extent that they suggest, as the minutes of meetings and conferences show. My impression is that the Workers' Party has a constructive attitude to this field, but that they don't go beyond the Government's follow-up with concrete means. On the specific question of whether there is a possibility of 'active grip' now between budgetary periods, I will answer that of course. But I would like to respect the fact that the Storting has two budgetary procedures, one about the cottage and one about the spring, and that we will then deal with economic outlays and try to avoid oversupply policies that will harm society as a whole. It is clear that in the revised national budget it is possible to come back with modified conditions, if the Government finds reason to do so. But I have in my main post appealed to the fleet layers. I believe that fleet teams have good conditions to be able to operate their business, and that they should be detained in order to alert flagging and flagging out concretely. The accounting figures that are now being presented have a great deal of respect for them. But when the government has now announced that they will take a complete review of the situation before shipping, I will at least ask the shipowners and the shipowners to conclude on such serious questions before they see what framework conditions the government will lay down with the industry. It's a positive attitude, and I hope the industry trusts it, and that they'll give us a chance here to figure out the basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e487	I thought I would follow up on the extension of the line to Grethe Fossli, because I feel that we did not get the answer quite clearly. The position clearly states that the government parties Right and Christian People's Party will see shipping policy in an overall context, environment, safety, framework conditions, etc. Action will have to be taken before the message comes, but at the same time it will open up to take ‘active action’. But we have a situation in Norway today with 100,000 unemployed. Some seafarers are most likely to enter the labour market at a later stage, and the ring-fence will be negative with regard to new activities in Norway. We know that the EU now sucks at the competence of Norwegian shipping companies moving out. This is a serious situation. We actually have a situation today that requires ‘active grip’. So my question to the representative Gedrem is: What does the government intend to do to make it at all reasonable and necessary to take ‘active grip’, as it says in the setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e494	I have respect for the attitude of the Progress Party, and the policy they stand for in this field. I just want to, like the Right Spokesman, pay tribute to the process we had during the last budgetary procedure, which for this industry resulted in very favourable arrangements compared to previous schemes, with a transfer of well $ 1⁄2 billion. This agreement we entered into with the Progress Party is set to hold. The only reason why we can deviate from him is that the Progress Party itself opens up an assessment of certain aspects of him, and that we can discuss a redistribution. It is a current theme in the case that the Progress Party wants it to be. I would like to mention that the Government should contact other EU countries in order to make EU countries move away from their net pay arrangements and their favourable arrangements to compete in a larger market. It's unfortunate for EU countries, which probably have other good purposes to spend on, and it pushes up a spiral that we from Norway can't be unaffected by. I refer then to the government's proposal to introduce limited maritime aid, which is a result of what the EU has done unilaterally. There can be no excessive deviation from the systems that the EU itself introduces. Therefore, it is probably an important process to check whether there is a basis for the EU to reconsider its competitive advantage mechanisms. I would also like to believe that an active approach should be for the Government to contact its organisations and fleet teams to listen to the extent to which it is appropriate to enter into partial solutions in the middle of the budget year. I don't want to forward a conclusion, but I expect the Government to contact these organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e503	One of the obvious measures to counteract the rising unemployment rate is, in the view of the Centre Party, to secure and strengthen the areas where Norway is good – shipping, the maritime clusters, is such an area. A diet of rich traditions and heavy ringing is now at risk of being severely reduced. Some people use even stronger expressions. It is necessary to do something now, not in 2004 or 2005, if one is to prevent thousands of seafarers from becoming unemployed, if one is to prevent there from becoming a new recruiter in this important area, and if one is to prevent the loss of valuable competences both on land and at sea. It is strange to listen to the Christian People's Party's representative today. It contrasts with the exposure that Einar Steensnæs has shown on the runway for many years in securing reliable framework conditions for shipping. Since 1993, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party have been working together on measures when they are in force. I actually have to feel it so today that the Christian People's Party has no commitment. The only thing that Olaf Gedrem is currently busy is asking the industry to take it easy. However, they cannot take it easy when both Sweden and Denmark have in place schemes that make them uncompetitive.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e511	I want to start by thanking the Center Party for a certain compliment to the Christian People's Party for at least in the 1990s having this industry in its field of interest and Syd for good order. And I'd like to go along with that. However, it is true that when it relates to the amount of reimbursement, it has never been greater than in 2002. Despite the fact that we have put forward a record budget, we found in the budget agreement, together with the Progress Party, until this transfer to the industry. So saying that we don't work for better terms is not quite right. What makes me a little calm with regard to nutrition and not feeling that she is in such an acute situation is that the annual accounts do not express an acute need. There is no urgent need to increase the service, and I think that they should have time to find out, together with the Government, whether or not there are some new measures in the process that the Government is already doing. I think they can preserve the Norwegian workplaces, strengthen their skills, recruit for the officer's corps and support all the Norwegian environments we appreciate today, and we have a lot of historical thanks to the shipping industry. They've come up at the level they're at today, thank you very much for interacting with community and Norwegian government. We have responded with reasonable framework conditions in the situations that have been necessary. We have also stretched out one hand now, and we say that in the short and long term we are prepared to take action to ensure that the industry is still Norwegian, to have a Norwegian recruitment and to secure jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e518	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e521	I am somewhat surprised when I hear that Olaf Gedrem keeps repeating that there is no need for action, because he has seen the accounts for the industry. Those accounts are based on historical figures. There are probably mainly 2001 accounts and perhaps a few provisional accounts for 2002. What we are now talking about is the need to take action for the future to ensure that the industry will also have a safe future. This must be done in the light of the current situation of Norwegian industry and Norwegian shipping industry, not in the light of the situation they were in in 2001. That is the whole point of this proposal having to be addressed now and not in 2004. The centre party has been a driver both in relation to the reimbursement scheme and to the shipping tax, for the simple reason that the centre party is definitely not opposed to selective measures to develop industries on which we should bet. And the maritime industries are definitely industries on which it should be invested. There we have natural advantages, and therefore we should put in the instruments to cultivate these industries. In our opinion, it is necessary to settle the business-neutral thinking that exists in many environments today, and to focus on the industries where we have natural advantages for growth. Then we'd better discuss what kind of instruments are the best at any time. But I am convinced that it will not be possible to maintain our position as a maritime nation without Norwegian seafarers, and then also that we are willing to put in place measures aimed at keeping Norwegian seafarers within this industry. When I say that it will not be possible to maintain the industry without Norwegian seafarers, I see the industry as a whole. Both in relation to the brokerage industry, in relation to shipyards, in relation to equipment suppliers, etc. depends on being able to retrieve competent people who have experience from Norwegian ships. Therefore, the reimbursement scheme and the net pay scheme are important. When the Central Party is now set to raise the aid in the reimbursement scheme to 20 pst. As an immediate measure, it is because we have to reverse the developments we are now experiencing. We have to take the situation of the industry today. It is quite right, as Ivar Kristiansen said, that in 1997 and 1998, while we were in government, we reduced the aid in the reimbursement scheme from 20 to 12 p.m., at the time also in the budgetary agreement with the Right. But it was based on the situation the industry was in at that time. Of course, it can't apply to all the future. We have to start from today's situation. Therefore, we believe it is right to increase the support of the reimbursement scheme to 20 pst. again. Any responsible party has to take inward that the situation changes, and that we now have to use other instruments than we had to do five years ago. If we are not willing to use such simple reasoning in politics, we cannot have a job done either. Now that we also support the proposal to introduce a net pay scheme, it is for two reasons. First, we want to get as close as possible to the countries we compete with. Secondly, we have recognised that the reimbursement system is not robust enough. The number of treatments in the Stortinget since the introduction of the scheme would illustrate this well enough. We can't live with the fact that we're going to get back to this system as often as we've done. For me, it's totally incomprehensible when Right's nutritionist attacks the Center Party in the way that he did in a reply in place, instead of spending time answering what he was actually asked for. It's actually not a right-hand profit that now it's 550 million. kr in the budget at the disposal of this industry. It is the merit of the Progress Party. The right proposed NOK 0,0 in the budget they provided. And without the Progress Party having become a driver in the negotiations between the government parties and the Progress Party, the shipping industry had not been granted either the reimbursement scheme or the net pay. Those are the naked facts. When Ivar Kristiansen asserted that there is a historically high amount to which the Government has contributed, it is far beyond the truth. It was the Progress Party that put it in place. I'd like to discuss the Centre Party's financial arrangements with Ivar Kristiansen at any time. It's an arrangement that relates from A to Å. But it's actually not us, but the Right that shows its true face in this case. It's the Right that's been high on the track. It is the Right who commits a breach of promises. And when Ivar Kristiansen now talks about doing one thing in opposition and something else in position, you should listen to it, because the Right has learned that art remarkably quickly. Finally, I see that SV has presented a revised proposal in the Chamber today. That proposal is a step in the right direction, even though it is part of the device that questions the practical feasibility. But this proposal should be able to have a majority. I cannot believe that the Progress Party will necessarily see this as a breach of the budgetary agreement that has been concluded. The centre party will provide subsidiary support for this proposal, and I would ask that voting be put up so that it is possible to vote subsidiaryly for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e540	It has to be done. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e545	For the Government and for the Right, it has been a general objective to pursue a fiscal policy that is now proving to bring interest and the price of the crown downwards. The most dramatic thing about Norwegian business over the last four to five years is that the krone price has been so high that what you paid 100 kroner for four years ago is now only paid 85 kroner. That's the big challenge. It seems in this Chamber that many of the speakers take this with a tight budget as a matter of course. But it is important that when we talk about having a tight budget, it must also be that we are held back with expenditure. They shall be covered in. It is possible that I sprinkle the salt in the wound when I ask the representative, Mr. Enoxen, how he intends to cover the expenses that amount to several billion kroner from 1 January 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e552	I note that the Right argues with the need for a tight fiscal policy. I also record that the Right argues that there will be a shipping message – a message! – in 2004, a Communication that will describe some measures but will not lead to the implementation of measures. I also note that the Right argues that there is no special treatment for individual industries, that there is no need to subsidise bartenders on the ferry to Denmark, as the Minister of Finance has expressed it. That's why I'm a little bit in doubt about what the Right really means. If it is for budgetary reasons that net pay arrangements are not to be put in place for the groups for which proposals have now been submitted, it can be defended to the extent that this could mean that the Right could come back to this as early as the harvest. But when the Right of First proposed zero in the budget for the current year, and then argues the way the Minister of Finance does, I honestly don't think that Right has intended to stand by his old promises to give support to this industry. On the contrary, the Right has changed policy. Now there is business neutrality and general tax relief. Therefore, when we present our draft budget, the Central Party will come back to how we intend to finance this. But I can already give the representative Momyr a tip: we are not going to introduce another DKK 10 to 15 billion in general tax relief, which is essentially going to go to the 10 pst. – if the Government follows the Skauge Committee – which serves the most. We intend to use the funds targeted and not implement what the government parties have voted for in the Sem Declaration, that is to give some thirty billion dollars in tax relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e562	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e565	‘I am disappointed with the Government’s proposal, which then until those degrees fail the Norwegian sailor.’ – This could well have been my own statement today, but it is actually quoted word by word of mouth from a post held by the then Depositary Representative Ansgar Gabrielsen on a proposal for a reduction in the refund scheme for shipping that came from the Bondevik I government in June 1998. I cannot understand what has changed so much that today's Minister of Economic Affairs Ansgar Gabrielsen has changed his view of the matter altogether. Today, we have a much more difficult situation in terms of total employment in society than we had at the time. This should be an important reason for ensuring the future of the shipping industry in Norway. Why isn't this government more concerned with backing up the industries in this country that we're good at, and that we have naturalized advantage to be the best at? Norway is the third largest shipping nation in the world. This has given us a high maritime competence that has again had very significant ring-effects for other industries. Among other things, we are at the forefront of competence in the field of marine petroleum activities, which is clearly linked to our competence and long experience as a shipping nation. I heard that the Minister of Industry said in a radio debate yesterday that budgetary reasons are the reason why the Right and the Government are against the proposal that the Labour Party has put forward and that we are now considering. I'd rather ask, can we afford not to? I am not at all in favour of this type of tax dumping, but we must deal with the realities and realize that if we are still to have Norwegian seafarers and a shipping under the Norwegian flag, we must provide the industry with the same framework conditions as our competitors have. The government must negotiate with other nations and with international trade organisations on such issues. The government cannot leave this to the industry itself and simply turn its back on the problems that so unequal competition poses for the industry and for those who work there. Unemployment in Norway is now growing dramatically, and we cannot make this situation even worse by also allowing several thousand seafarers to enter the job queue. This will also have a strong impact on industries on land. The right has flagged shipping and the cause of seafarers for a long time and in several election campaigns. The Labour Party has received strong criticism from the Right not to go far enough in the arrangements that have been put in place. I understand that many are disappointed when they experience that the first Right does in the government position, is to propose to cut all the arrangements that they have previously demanded improved. Is it true that the Right Maritime Policy was flouted when former Stolt-Nielsen’s representative left Stortinget and also left the party? The working party has tried to demonstrate flexibility in order to find solutions here in Stortinget that can ensure Norwegian shipping. We cannot say the same thing about the government parties' willingness to meet this invitation. On the other hand, the Socialist Left Party, which has always been fundamentally opposed to these arrangements, has shown a willingness to listen to arguments and to look for solutions. I now hope that the Advance Party can also free itself a little from the grip of the government parties and get on with it today. I still have the hope that today we will come up with a solution that will enable seafarers from all parts of Norway to have faith in a future for their profession and their jobs with the importance this has for our coast and for our districts. Finally, I just need to be informed to the representative Hedstrøm that the bending loads are also part of the Workers' Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e588	I'm going to leave the political archaeology in this post. But when I hear previous state councils, whether it's Enoch, Meltveit Kleppa, Akselsen or who it might be, who have been participants in governments that have proposed the liquidation of these schemes, let me say this: it's always exciting and interesting to listen to newcomers! With regard to shipping and the maritime industries, there is no doubt, as has been emphasised in many speeches, that it is an important part of Norwegian business and actually has an important role in world trade as an environmentally friendly transport option. In addition to the increasing demand from world trade for shipping, more and more regions are seeing shipping as a factor in reducing the pressure on other infrastructure. This shows that shipping is a forward-looking industry. The Norwegian-controlled fleet is the third largest in the world, giving Norwegian authorities a special role in international work on the environment and safety at sea. In addition, Norway has an active role in the ongoing WTO negotiations. The aim of these negotiations is to ensure open markets for Norwegian shipping. Norwegian shipping policy is therefore anchored in the work on common and binding international framework conditions with particular emphasis on the UN body. In Norway, in order to address these issues, we have, among other things, extensive mechanisms to support Norwegian seafarers. Today's arrangements, as we have heard, vary from full net pay to 9.3 p.m. depending on the segment you're in. So, in sum, the 2003 State Budget allocated more than DKK 0.5 billion to help Norwegian seafarers also be Norwegian. Through the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, these arrangements, which we have agreed today, have secured this large-scale period. Thus, in contrast to the previous two or three grossing-up periods, there is now contractual stability to the extent that they do not wish to change these arrangements. During the last few weeks there has been a lot of attention around the offshore fleet, and I recognise that the competitive situation for parts of this fleet seems to be at risk. When I say parts, it's because I see that there's significant profits in part of these shipping companies, actually between 10 and 12 million dollars in profit per. ship, so it's after all viable in parts of the offshore fleet. But here, as in many parts of Norwegian business, large cost differences are experienced in relation to competing countries. It is definitely a composite picture, and wage competition has been an important element of the worsening situation that has arisen. I see that the care for offshore vessels has now also come back to the party where it was not so very pronounced earlier. I think it's now pretty important to put parts of this behind and start looking forward. I think the melody in what the committee leader said, linked to looking forward, is quite important. There is no doubt that the cost differences between Norwegian seafarers and other seafarers are one of the reasons why one chooses the other rather than the other, but it is not such that the shipping companies that can get hold of cheap seafarers do so solely because it is cheap. When they choose Norwegian, it's also because of the quality. When Norwegian shipping companies contract ships in China and South Korea, or where it may be, and choose Norwegian suppliers, it is rarely because they are the cheapest, but because they are the best. That's the way it is in areas by area. I guess I could see that company moving out just because of one of these parameters. As regards stability, I very much agree with the representative Akssen, who recently stated that a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party may not be the most robust in this matter. I also fully agree with the assessment made by the representative Hedstrøm regarding the agreement concluded, in which the government parties have committed themselves during this large-scale period not to weaken the terms and conditions of the ferry companies. That's what we've got, and we're on it. I also understand the indignification of SV with the representative Lodve Solholm, who referred to the fact that the article had been written last night. This matter has been in the Committee for four to five months, and it is no wonder that stability is not the most striking thing when you are almost online with part of these shipping companies, while we stand here and debate and doubt whether to jump on this proposal which is then written during the night. [[President clubs and clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e612	The President is very patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e616	That's good. So am I.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e621	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e624	I've heard it before, and I've heard it today, that the government has used the lack of budget coverage, or lack of money, to say it this way, as an argument to go against the proposal of the Workers' Party that is being dealt with today. At the same time, we know that a flagging out of the fleet will mean that a lot of seafarers lose their jobs, that Norway loses a high-performance industry, that maritime education needs to be reduced, that our maritime competence will be confused, and that the state has to cover large amounts for seafarers who are entitled to a seafarer's pension. In addition, of course, there will be the consequences of regional policy. Has the Council of State and the Government calculated how this will turn out? Is it the case that the State will lose overall on the introduction of such a net pay scheme, or is it such that it is in different budgets, so that no one can see the context? What does the Council of State think about this? What about spending only $1 billion of the nineteen billion given in tax bills to the richest, to save Norwegian shipping, Norwegian jobs and an important district industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e631	To start with the last one. The representative Bendiks H. Arnesen misrepresented the tax bill to the richest. Either there's a lack of knowledge or there's a lack of interest in acquiring knowledge that makes it even possible to formulate yourself like this. Perhaps the most important measure that has been taken in these two years is just linked to enabling Norwegian businesses to hold back a larger share of their own profits. What would have been the situation today if we had chosen the option according to Bendiks H. Arnesen's instructions and brought in yet another massive billion to the treasury from among others. This fleet, from the maritime cluster, which this is about? Had you been better able to meet the low economic cycle, or had you been less able to do so? So there hasn't been a single pipe from one sole proprietor, from Lindesnes to Nordkapp, who is calling for Bendiks H. Arnesen's tax policy, which would have made you in a dramatically worse situation than the one you're in today. Of course, there is no doubt that when the government presented its budget in the autumn, other priorities were set. The most important thing was to facilitate a policy that would contribute to lower interest rates. So we did not find room for this in the budget, but there was a budget agreement on that. It is gratifying to see that the government's policy in this area is working. The industry, from a to a, was unambiguous about what was the most important thing, that of getting interest and interest rates down. We put in place all the unpopular measures that were necessary to achieve that. We've taken the edge of it, also from the representative Arnesen, but it doesn't get any less wise for that reason. As for the maritime competence, whether it's confusion or not confusion, I see that it's important for the maritime cluster in total that we have a tribe of Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships. It has also been set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e642	In several respects, the Minister of Industry and Trade has called for the harmonisation of the framework conditions for Norwegian business in relation to what is available in the EU. This is also followed up in several areas by the Government. The Industry Committee has recently received St. pp. No 47 for 2002 – 2003, on aid to the shipbuilding industry. I'll quote some lines from it: ‘In order to ensure a level playing field between the shipbuilding industry in Norway and the shipbuilding industry in the competitor countries of the EU, the Government proposes the introduction of a limited yard aid scheme’, etc. So in this area, we want to harmonise. I don't quite understand this. What's the principal difference? As far as seafarers are concerned, we do not want to harmonise the legislation with our legislation on maritime nations in the EU, but we want to do so in terms of shipbuilding. My question to the Council of State is, what is the difference in principle? When the government goes in for one, why can't you have the same reason to go in for the other?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e652	The issue, both of a principle and a theoretical nature, was linked to the difference in the setting of framework conditions for the Norwegian shipbuilding industry in the case of yard aid, similar to that of the EU, and not fully harmonised for the remuneration support schemes. The big difference in principle is that we don't get wage harmonisation even if we were to adopt some of the proposals that are here. There is not one speaker today who has called for us to ensure that Norwegian shipping companies do not get more pay than the shipping companies in other European countries have. But we're going to remove the Norwegian treasure for Norwegian seafarers. The relative difference in pay is going to be exactly the same. Insofar as a Spaniard initially costs 40 pst. in both countries, the relative difference will nevertheless be present in terms of salary levels. That is why, in fact, throughout the 1990s, as far as I remember – including the Progress Party, except for what has now come about the budget – we have had no position that has gone on to make up for these differences in full. I guess we had 20 pst. earlier. Then it was reduced to 12 pst. What I agree with in this respect with the representative Hedstrøm and the Progress Party in, which is their concern, is that it is important to keep a core of Norwegian seafarers. But we know that even if we were to introduce the most far-reaching proposal here, that does not mean that the 65 000 seafarers flying the Norwegian flag will be Norwegian seafarers. I still think the number will be around where it is, because it will be essentially the officer corps this will be about. The difference between the costs of a Filipino sailor and for a Northman is still so great that even full reimbursement would not compensate for this. The shipowners will be able to calculate the difference quickly and will, to a large extent, opt out of the Norwegian seafarer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e661	I see the government's answers as a little bit out of direction. He beats a little bit all the way. I might have to say that I understand that, in this situation. I don't know if I'm going to perceive the Council of State's last response so that he's surprised that no one in this room is suggesting that Norwegian seafarers go down 40 pst. in wages and I'm not particularly surprised by that. The councils referred in their main post to my main post and various types of night work. I just want to make it clear that I'm writing my own articles. I must occasionally take the night to help. But the proposal is not written tonight. The proposal is contrary to the outcome of a long process within the Committee and has been adjusted many times, so that this night should not be due to what that proposal looks like. I agree with a lot of the nuances used by the Council of State in its contribution when it relates to the economic situation of some fleets. It is not as obvious as the image will be drawn. We all see that when we see the economic results, the predestination accounting figures for 2002, which are presented in these days. I have no problem agreeing with the Council of State in it. My question is: does the Council not see that the Right, with its clear and clear promises that Norwegian fleets should have the same framework conditions as the European fleets, is it precisely a desire to legitimise the idea that it is possible to flag out if one does not have it in the EU? Doesn't the Council of States see that since the Right has been involved in building up expectations, we are in the very situation we are today, that it is in a way an acceptable solution, without making demands on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e672	When I referred to night activities, it was so far in a reference to what the representative himself said in his post. As far as I can see from the proposal that is on the table, it is not promoted while you are working on committee work, but in retrospect, namely today at 0 p.m. 08.40. That's what I was referring to. That proposal has other and adjusted elements in itself in relation to what the Committee presented. As far as I am aware, today it has been communicated with the two-three shipping companies concerned to get an assessment of them, and that is enough. The representative takes up right hand engagement in this area, and there's no doubt that in the budget we made up this fall, we didn't have this, I fully admit it. It wasn't because we thought it was completely insane in some circumstances to have reimbursement arrangements of some kind, but briefly because we had some overall objectives of having such a tight budget just for the sake of business and not least the competitive sector. It is, as I said, gratifying to see that with regard to the policy we put forward to remedy two of the three worst conditions for the Norwegian competitive industry, namely what is going on at interest rates and what is going on at dollar rates, we are in the process of succeeding on the basis of the strategy we have chosen. So by creating such a tight budget, we didn't have room for this, I fully acknowledge that. I also fully acknowledge what I have done in this area in the 1990s in terms of engagement with the Stortinget, against both the former state councils of the Bondevik I government, and, for that matter, the Harlem Brundtland government, the Jagland government and the Stoltenberg government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e680	A few references to what the Council of State said in its statement. Unlike in the past, the framework conditions are now agreed, that is correct, but it may not be possible for the Right to take credit for it. The Council of State and I signed the Trade Committee in the time of the Bondevik I government, and I don't remember the fact that at that time the Right either made a special move to get the contractual arrangements out of the period. The councils suggested that there were some people in the hall who were almost online with the shipping companies during the debate. I don't know who the state council was aiming for, but it might have been an advantage in the situation of large parts of Norwegian business at present, if the state council had also been more online from time to time than what we can get the impression that he is, when he constantly repeats his mantra that there is no need to intervene in any area. It's a policy that's not going to take place over time. I would like to repeat my question, although in the answer to the previous replicator I could get an idea of what the Government now intends to do. The Council of State now argues with the need for a tight budget as a reason for not proposing to grant the reimbursement scheme in the current year's budget. I respect that, because it's actually an argument that the government has to take into account. But there have been differing arguments, including: by the Minister of Finance, who is not at all enthusiastic about this type of scheme and who also expresses it in clear terms in all the debates in which he participates. Therefore, it might be good to get the Minister of Industry to say a few words about what kind of arrangement the Minister of Industry and the Government wants this industry to have for the future, if we ignore this year's tight government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e691	That was a very constructive question. But let me say first in relation to it 'to take credit for'. I cannot imagine that someone might have got the impression that the undersigned or others from the Right have tried to take credit for anything in relation to the agreement. It is a fact that it was the Progress Party that got this into the budgetary agreement with the Government. When it comes to being online with Norwegian business, I do not ignore the fact that there are others who may have the same contact, but I can hardly imagine that someone has any particular contact. And that's a pretty unambiguous message from Lindesnes to North Cape when I meet business. Those who are visiting the ministry every day – regardless of which enterprise, regardless of which region, regardless of which industry – say that the most important thing is that we continue to weaken the crown, reduce interest rates and get to a different level in terms of wage growth. It's becoming the most important thing. So that the Minister of Finance has expressed his opinion on ferry companies, etc. Let me say that to the extent that the Storting – and the Committee – should do something constructive, one should, at my discretion, be able to draw on the framework for which there is a majority, and then find out how best to use that framework to ensure that the most competent maritime environment receives the resources. I wouldn't have chosen to give 40 pst. to the ferry companies while we, for example. So it's going to be 9.3 pst. to offshore. I would say that at least there should have been a balance between them. Because if you're really concerned with the genuine competence that's in the maritime environment, you know that it varies from segment to segment, and at my discretion it's more important to raise the percentage for offshore than to keep it at 40 for smaller ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e700	I record that the Council of State makes my statements as incorrect. Governments have a different starting point than I do, namely, business neutrality. Here we disagree, and we have to accept that. The difference is that I'm e.g. is in favour of strengthening the SND, while the Council of State wants to weaken such measures. The same applies to this case as well. But my question was, why not use a small part of the large tax havens given to save thousands of jobs, to save educational provision, to save coastal districts and to save other industries? I have also noticed that it is being pointed out today that we have never contributed as much to shipping as it is now, and there is a figure of 550 million. kr. The amount was, as far as I know, 540 million. 1996 kr, and there will probably be much more in 2003 kr. Can the Council confirm these figures?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e708	As far as I remember, there has been a broad consensus in the Storting throughout the 1990s, after we dealt with the business report a few years ago, that the main track in Norwegian business policy is business neutrality. This also applies to Bendiks H. Arnesen's own party. So to: ‘Is that so?’ No, it's not like that. It's almost not the industry where politicians aren't in and make adjustments. It's not that it's just in agriculture and shipping that you're in and do it. In the area by area, we have special arrangements, both plus and minus. So to SND, as the representative Arnesen wants to strengthen. Yes, I thank you for that wish. But it has been reduced every year since 1993, and it is not the Right who has been in government since 1993. That is, to a large extent, Mr President. Arnessen's closest allies. And so we were going to use only a small part of the tax base for this purpose. At least you couldn't use the tax that Arnesen won't give for this. First, you have to be willing to pay taxes before, alternatively, you use them for anything else. Arnessen's tax incentives could at least not have been used for this. I feel that we are on the right track as to what is the most important thing for Norwegian industry and Norwegian competitive business, namely to drive a race where we stay in line with the use of public funds, and limit ourselves to creating a regime in line with the Norwegian business demand, in order to strengthen the overall competitiveness. It is just what will ensure employment both in the districts and in the central districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e724	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e727	There are several times in the debate referred to the agreement that the government parties received with the Progress Party, which regulated both the relief in the shipping tax and the reimbursement scheme, plus the net pay scheme for ferry companies. It was decided that at least this device should not be impaired during the current ageing period. We know that 550 million. underlying – it is the framework of the different financial arrangements for seafarers. I think it is positive what we heard today from the representative Hedstrøm, who gives an opening to look at the device of these means. It would have been a good idea if we had a turn from supporting «dealers» in Oslofjorden to, for example. supporting seafarers in offshore. We've experienced a lot of noise about flagging out and the threat of this, and we've witnessed a "rebellion" similar to the Western Council. We're taking this seriously. This matter is of great importance to the Christian People's Party, because it is about jobs in the districts, because it is about the basis of a knowledge-intensive industry in the future. This is about our competitiveness and our ability to form the basis for increased value creation in the future. The Christian People's Party has previously called for the framework conditions to be harmonised as far as possible with our competitors. This has to do with stability and predictability. The government has therefore implemented large tax and tax reliefs, which have mainly benefited businesses. Examples include the loss of the investment fee, the double taxation of dividends and the flight passenger fee and the improvement of depreciation rates. In addition, the Government has concluded a cooperation agreement with the social partners to mitigate wage growth. The government has taken a boost in research and development, and we want to create new jobs. And for those who become unemployed, we've reorganized and strengthened Aetat. All of this is an important contribution to the business environment. Recently there has been a lot of talk about flagging out shipping companies and furniture companies, etc. There are probably several reasons why this happens, and I do not ignore the fact that the flags that have happened are well justified. At the same time, I do not ignore the fact that some of the flags have quite natural reasons for a failure of the domestic market, based on new markets abroad or similar. When reviewing the accounts of some actors, we have seen that there are not necessarily bad results that force them out. There are also figures for 2002 – to inform the representative of Enoxsen, who thought this must be older figures. On this basis, there is therefore a certain likelihood that flagging does not always have to be related to bad framework conditions. Nevertheless, I see that these flags are suitable as good examples to highlight a point of view for the industry. It is far enough, but I would like to point out the importance of maintaining a certain level of activity at home in order to provide a basis for building a knowledge-intensive industry in the future – not least in terms of future value creation. We can't stick under a chair that Norway is a high-cost country. That is why in the future we need to be more competitive in knowledge-intensive areas and niches. That's why, in the future, we need to build on the experience we have, and what we have tradition of being good at. Economist Arild Hervik recently said that the knowledge and experience of the basic processes of a production activity is a prerequisite for becoming good at e.g. product development. What is important then is that we do not flag out industries or areas that are the basis for what we want to further develop Norway to become an advanced industrial nation. This responsibility cannot be imposed on business alone, nor on shipping companies in this case. That's why we need to know more about the different backgrounds from which this comes. These and similar questions I look forward to having a full review of the announced shipping message, which we get to the next spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e748	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e751	Maritime industry is now at a crossroads by the disappearance of competences and jobs abroad. Without this industry, many coastal communities will face a dark future in terms of jobs. In order to maintain Norway’s maritime advantage and ensure Norwegian seafarers, a few in place need stable and sustainable conditions of competition. Something has to be done, and it has to be done now. I am amazed that the Chief Speaker of the Right, Kristiansen, and, in part, the Minister of Economic Affairs in his posts, is close to snorting with the opposition and their view of this important industry in Norway. The head of the Business Committee, Olav Aksensen, wrote in May 2002 to the Minister for Industry, inviting them to cooperate to put the framework conditions in place and stability for this industry, which is so important to Norway. We get the answer today. The government has had 3/4 years to figure this out and come up with devices that we could put together as a lasting solution for these jobs and our coastal communities. Nothing has happened. And then we experience talking about archaeology and different other excavations here from the past. Something has to be done now, we have to take over the world of reality and what's happening around us. Some representatives also refer to good accounting figures from some shipping companies. I am glad that there are good accounting figures from some shipping companies, but there are many who are also struggling. But that is not the issue. The issue is that we have different framework conditions than our closest competitors, who take over every day and blow out our jobs. I'm going to promise Kristiansen that the Workers' Party will have on the weekly menu every week of employment and jobs. And then the Right and the Kristians have to figure out that we're taking these questions up every week. The sailors represent one of our most important industries, and we will also remember the Right on every single day. I said something earlier about framework conditions. So it's said from the Right that it's important to ensure business tax relief. Yes, in some areas it is. But when we talk about 19 billion dollars in tax credits, which are now distributed, and they're going up to 38 billion dollars before the election period is over, and when we see the distribution profile of these tax credits, it's obvious that it's not going in the direction of strengthening jobs, on the contrary. Here we have to act, we can't just look at the flag and act afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e762	I have asked for the floor in this matter, which is so important to my own part of the country, South Africa. The Progress Party is strongly committed to seeing the dramatic and acute need to create good and competitive framework conditions for Norwegian shipping in order to continue to maintain a strong maritime sector in Norway. In my part of the country, South Africa, we have a significant maritime activity, with 18 shipping companies combined, and these operate and own more than 464 ships, employing jobs close to 10,000 seafarers, and over 1,500 of them live in the South and Norway. The economic ring-fences of maritime activities are high in the South. In the South, we have the world's leading shipping company, Gard, which employs more than 350 people, and we have a significant mechanical industry that is strongly linked to shipping and offshore operations, and this can thus wetter and disappear if we get a comprehensive flagging out. In addition, shipping is often invested in a significant number of enterprises in the country to create local jobs and contributes positively to the development of the region. Shipping has historically meant all too much development in the South. Without the shipping industry, the South had looked different today. But still shipping means a lot to the continent in many ways. I am therefore disappointed that the Government does no more to prevent the deflagration of the maritime business. The progress party is sorry for the fraud committed against Norwegian seafarers lately. Norwegian maritime operations are now at a crossroads, and if we do not act soon, Norway's days as the third largest maritime nation in the world may soon be spoken. As a nation, we will lose a great deal of money in the future, not least in this area too completely. On behalf of the South and Norwegian seafarers and, to the extent that the whole country otherwise, I would like to demand that politicians come together as soon as possible and adopt framework conditions, so that Norwegian seafarers and Norwegian shipping companies are given competitive conditions that are in proportion to those they have in other countries. But we have to act quickly. So the majority has not understood that yet. If we cannot save the country's maritime industries, we as a nation are becoming poorer – guaranteed poorer. We're the best when we can compete on equal terms, so what are we really waiting for? Therefore, a so-called net pay system for Norwegian seafarers should now be put in place immediately and the tonnage tax adjusted. Now it really is urgent for Norwegian seafarers. Our seafarers are now 40-50 pst. more expensive than EU, Sweden or other seafarers, and this cannot continue for longer. We need to agree on a Norwegian shipping policy that can bring Norwegian maritime nutrition back on track as quickly as possible and towards new heights.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e771	Our shipping industry today has dramatically worse conditions than what we see in our competitors. We see that many shipping companies, not least in the offshore fleet, are now flagging out a significant number of ships and jobs and planning for further deflagration, which has emerged clearly in today's debate. We don't need any more investigations and communications from government to government to be able to see this reality. The representatives of the government parties must remain both blind and deaf, who do not see that action is required immediately. The majority has ordered the Government to make an arrangement that ensures Norwegian shipping companies and seafarers stable and equivalent conditions of competition, but this is sabotaged. The government, through the proposal of the Workers' Party, had a new chance to take this situation seriously, but did not use it. Thus, government parties say yes to enhanced flagging. The industry is crystal clear that it can no longer sit and wait. The differences in costs between Norwegian conditions and e.g. The size of the schemes in Denmark, Sweden and England is such that competition becomes unsustainable, with a cost difference of several million dollars per year. boat within e.g. offshore. It costs initially to introduce net wages, but we must be able, as the Workers' Party suggests, to extend the net pay scheme to offshore vessels in the NOR register from 1 July 2003. It pays off in the form of jobs both at sea and at land. This industry has meant, and means, a lot to many coastal regions. In More and Romesdal, we see how shipping, especially in offshore, has helped to develop one of the world's strongest and most competent maritime environments, both in design, development, design and production. Over 50 pst. of the total offshore fleet in the North Sea, i.e. 100 offshore and upholstery clothing, belongs here, and approx. 70 pst. of the world's offshore and supplicants have been designed and developed here, especially in the sun marshmallow region. We're talking about investments in ships up to 8 billion kroner. the last seven to eight years. It is this unique environment of jobs and competences that we want to defend today. This is in danger. Therefore, reimbursement schemes and net wages must be either statutory or statutory!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e780	It is fantastic to hear the representatives of the Workers' Party, who in their budget have never found room for net pay and better framework conditions for seafarers. Now they do it, and honor be to them for it, but it's quite strange to experience this. It is very unfortunate and regrettable that Norwegian competitiveness does not have the same framework as its competitors in other countries. As the representative of Solholm pointed out, I have quite rightly said that the Right will work for as much equal a framework as possible for the maritime industry as well. Important framework conditions for the maritime industry are also lower taxes, interest rates and interest rates, just what this Government has prioritised. The problem is that during the last year and the current year, large parts of Norwegian business exposed to competition have been more or less supported. Many relationships are involved, such as higher wages, high dollar rates and high interest rates. In addition, it is worth recalling that when the Co-operation Government took over after the Stoltenberg government, Norwegian industry had a historically high tax burden that the Co-operation Government has reversed by NOK 19 billion. 80 pst. This has helped to strengthen and make Norwegian industry more competitive in the future. The economic crisis in which the country in general and the coast are particularly at present requires the Government to focus, in addition to tax relief, on helping businesses that really bleed because of poor competitiveness. Both the dollar and the interest rate are now coming down, precisely because the government has been stuck on a tight budget, and because we've taken business seriously. In order to succeed in turning the negative trend in business now, it is important that everyone contributes. For a solid industry such as shipping, it should be easy to show some solidarity and wait until the shipping message is dealt with. In this context, good framework conditions for seafarers will be an important part which will clearly be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e793	Norway also needs Norwegian seafarers and maritime nutrition in the future. Then it is decisive that this industry can compete with the corresponding industries in our neighbouring countries. It is only by getting comparable framework conditions in place that we can assume that the ‘Norwegian sailor’ will also be known in the future. Without Norwegian seafarers, we are missing an entirely central basis for different maritime businesses, ranging from maritime transport and marine research and funding equipment. In fact, Norway may lose large export revenues related to the Norwegian supply of advanced ship equipment, which will be used on ships built both in Norway and abroad — perhaps not today or tomorrow but in the long term. Because it is and will be the Norwegian seafarer who is the basis and the driving force of the entire maritime industry. It is his knowledge, initiative and glow that is the energy of evolution. It is he we find that, with his competence in the various parts of the maritime industry in the broad sense. We can't afford to lose this. Purely social, the Norwegian seafarer also plays a central role in living and living and having his family along the coast. Today, we have also heard that there are seafarers in all the municipalities of the country. There is also reason to remind you that the reimbursement scheme has a history where there was an agreement on labor between seafarers, shipowners' teams and the state. The country’s contribution is still missing to the necessary extent. It must be time to get a clarification that is over time. Several Norwegian riding teams have expected to see how the situation is going, but they will not be able to stop talking. The loyalty of both Norwegian and Norwegian mariners has been great. They've believed in the promises, and they've waited. Now it has to be clarified that we still have a maritime industry, and that the Stortinge does not discuss an industry that was right for Norway, when the shipping message arrives in 2004. This is serious and no game, at least not for those who are going to have their livelihood from the Norwegian maritime industry, and the family of theirs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e805	At the heart of the debate, it must be clear and important to stress that the political majority in Norway is not willing to take the necessary steps to ensure that Norwegian shipping as a whole is internationally competitive in the future. The picture we've had for many years, where shipping has proved its own excellence with a high level of competence and being world leader and no. three in tonnage, missing out of the hands of Norwegian business activities is entirely unnecessary because politicians are not willing to provide the framework conditions. Norwegian seafarers on the seven seas with the Norwegian flag waving in the wind – will we experience it in the future? Or should it be Filipinos, Indians, Poles and bales and other countries? After the Lisbon Conference, we know that the EU is building on a maritime power. Should we let this out of our hands completely unnecessary and in a situation where the Norwegian industry and the export industry are confused? We in the Progress Party do not believe that. Then to the explanation of vote. I will only give the explanation of vote of the Progress Party on proposal No. 6, because in the other proposals it is quite clear how the Progress Party will vote. We will support the SV's proposal after a thorough assessment, and I have to explain it a little. Earlier today, I came into the Color Line and Fjord Line, which are currently covered by the scheme, and we have a moral obligation that the framework conditions should be firm in line with the investments made, at NOK 2.2 billion from Color Lines. We have now been in contact with these companies, and they do not regard this fund as a negative. They support it, and the Progress Party clearly sees that this is not a weakening of the agreement we have with the Government. But I would like to stress that this is a tertiary position. We believe, of course, that the solution models of the Progress Party for Norwegian shipping and the Norwegian sailor are the very best. Then we support the Workers' Party's proposal in a secondary way. However, at least Norwegian shipping and the net pay system within offshore, which may later also be extended to other categories, are moving in the right direction, and that is the main reason why we want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e814	I must say I am very pleased that the Progress Party will support SV's subsidiary proposal tertiaryly! It says something about how difficult it would have been to get anything out of this case. I'll just take the word to do something for a little change that is made in our proposal. It's in the sentence that reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to create a fund to go to...’ There we have made a change, and the proposal then reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a fund, for example according to the Swedish model, to go to’, etc. This is only to give the Government a little help in the preparation of more specific and detailed terms. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the proposal on the table has an impact for 2003 of 130 million. kr in relation to the figures put on the table by the Ministry. So it's going to be a net sample surface area of 130 million. kr for the extension of the net pay arrangements for offshore, including barges and supply boats.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e834	The representative of Åsa Elvik has briefed on the changes made by the Socialist Left Party in proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e837	At first I think I have to ask the representative Røbekk Nørve to study the previous budget a little more closely than she has done. If it has not found this kind of support scheme there, it must be because it has skipped the pages where it has been mentioned. After listening to the Council of State, I have found out that he must have a narrow circle of associates, because he gives the impression that everything is joy and fun in Norwegian business, and that there is a great deal of excitement about the Government's business policy. Since the New Year I have visited approx. 25 enterprises across the country in different industries. I just have to admit that I still have positive words to say about the business policy that is currently being pursued in the Kingdom. Unlike the Minister, I have actually had a strong desire to replace it with a more active industrial policy. When the Minister of Economic Affairs has not listened to these signals, I take it as a sign that he has clearly met a group of very polite people when he has been in contact with the various industries in Norway. I have said that we in the Labour Party have one goal, and that is that we should jointly reach a national compromise. Despite a lot of disappointments so far in the period, this hope is still on the table. I hope that we'd rather before, but in the worst case in connection with, the Government's shipping message should be able to improve the situation and not least manage to create stable conditions. Then it is important that in the process that is now to be started, there is no new uncertainty created. In my view, the various signals that come against the schemes we have today for ferry companies are capable of creating such uncertainty. I think it is important to make it clear that even though we in the Labour Party were not part of the deal that was last fall, we have taken it for granted that the framework conditions that are now given to that part of our shipping industry should be maintained. We have to think that on the basis of that compromise last fall, there has now been an investment between 2 billion and 3 billion kroner in the various ferry fleets. Now, if they're going to be exposed to a new change in these framework conditions, there's a new example of a contribution to increasing political contempt, so I hope it's not the end result of this process. So I now hear that the Progress Party wants to vote tertiaryly for the SV proposal. Of course, we are very pleased about that. This means that today there will be a positive decision that could help secure jobs along our coast. If that's the result, I'll say that's our Document No. Eight-proposal crown with hell.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e850	I think we should be aware that the net pay arrangements for fleets are not just a matter of concern to the Norwegian seafarer, and he alone. This is about the entire maritime sector in Norway. It's about shipyards, it's about design, it's about equipment manufacturers. Overall, there may be 70 000 to 80 000 jobs, not just the 20,000 Norwegian seafarers, who are probably within the total number. These are jobs that we might now be able to save some, as we came up with a compromise. Now, when the Ferry Act says that the proposal before us does not weaken the budgetary agreement that the Progress Party had with the Government, perhaps on the contrary, because this is money that is being ploughed back – nor is it a large sum of money that is involved for these fleets, perhaps 15 to 16 million. kr or something like that - it's possible that we can maybe go one step in the right direction. However, there are still 70 000 to 80 000 jobs. It's a little strange when, in a phase, the government is now proposing to give yard support just to an industry that wants to have the same framework conditions as Europe. The Right Party has fought and stood on the barricades with letters from the President – I think Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve in September. She now mentions in her speech that the last year, in 2002, something radical has happened. But in September she stood in the square in Ålesund and waved with the letter from Jan Petersen in the face of the seafarers and said, "It is clear that we in the Right shall fight for this." It is clear that we in the Right should stand next to the Progress Party and fight for the seafarers to get net pay. It was the great representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve stood and told the Norwegian sailor in Ålesund's streets in September 2002. Now all of a sudden it's with beaks and clothes that one should work so that this should not happen. Then the representative Eide from the Christian People's Party and talk about district work places is also standing. But isn't this district work place? That's exactly what this is. And one is willing to let 70 000-80,000 jobs just sail its own sea, to use a maritime expression. Then where is the trust to the Right? This case, along with salmon fjord sacs, which we treat in this room earlier in this week, is the greatest disappointment Right has given me for many, many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e866	I'm asking for the word to clarify a couple of things related to this. When we went into budget negotiations in the autumn, one of the absolute demands of the Progress Party was a reimbursement scheme and net wages for the ferry companies. That was an absolute claim before we even got into the debate. We probably wanted to take advantage of that money in a slightly different way – a more fair way, and in a way that we thought would have benefited the seafarers better than this. But, as I said, this was an absolute demand from the Progress Party. And so it was. Then we also have an agreement with the Progress Party, where it says the following: ‘The parties agree that the reimbursement scheme for seafarers and net wages and salaries for ferry companies resulting from this agreement shall not be impaired.’; It's quite obvious that when you take NOK 470 from this scheme, it's a weakening. I have to say what it is: this is, from the point of view of the government parties, a breach of the agreement we have with the Progress Party. Let me underline – since it was said here instead that they had called the ferry companies and received feedback that this was not so wrong: we have no agreement with the ferry companies. We have an agreement with the party Progress Party. I would like to stress that we believe that we are also free, when we come back to the revision, to look at that system, also in the light of the debate we have had here, with a view to achieving a more targeted and more consistent system. It is also important for me to stress that I think it is a little strange that the Progress Party is voting in favour of this proposal. Because when you go in and look at the premises for SV's proposal – I'll be allowed to quote from the setting – it says the following: ‘These members’ – i.e. SV – ‘suggested that in the budgetary agreement between the Government and the Progress Party in the autumn of 2002 there was a negotiated agreement not to weaken the reimbursement arrangements or the net pay arrangements for ferries’. These members have been and are against this priority.’ It cannot be interpreted differently than that the premise for SV's proposal is simply against the agreement we have with the Progress Party, and that means that it is clearly a breach of that agreement when the Progress Party will vote in favour of a proposal based on such premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e889	I would like to read a letter we have received: ‘THE TREATMENT OF SETTING S. NR 143 In connection with the processing by the Storting of the extension of the net pay scheme to the offshore vessel in the NOR register with effect from 1 July 2003, proposals from the SV concerned have been made:’The Government asks the Government to set up a fund for measures to promote and recruit in the maritime industry, in particular the right to maritime training. [[2002-2003]] The Fund shall be made available in consultation with the shipping companies concerned and the employees’ organisations. The fund is financed by the payment of NOK 470 per month per employed in all Norwegian ships covered by the net pay arrangements.’ I, the undersigned, operate in international ferry transport and are subject to a pre-existing net pay scheme. We understand that our activities are covered by the proposal to extend this scheme and provide our support for such a fund." Signed by Trond Kleivdal, CEO of Color Line, and Ove Johan Solem, CEO of Fjord Line – These are the two carriers involved. So to what Oddvard Nilsen says about the deal. First of all, the reason that this was a demand from us for negotiations was that we had an agreement from the revised national budget with the Right, which we demanded was to be enforced. Secondly, during the negotiations, as Oddvard Nilsen also said, the Progress Party insisted on incorporating this part of the agreement that Oddvard Nilsen referred to, where it states that this arrangement should not be weakened. There's no impairment, it's an addition. There are still net wages and salaries for the ferry companies. But in addition, we get a system like these companies and we accept, that there is also something else you are interested in, a fund to finance recruitment measures and training activities on board. So that's what the shipping companies consider to be a sensible arrangement. That's why there's no impairment, as Oddvard Nilsen says. And secondly, if someone were to be entitled to point out that there is a deterioration that is not acceptable, it had to be the Progress Party, not the Right Party and the Government Parties, because they don't want a net pay scheme at all, they don't want a refund scheme at all. Right should be cheering. If they believe that there is a deterioration, they should rejoice, for then they have come further on their way to get it removed. That would have been the logical thing to do on the part of the government. We who insisted on this wording do not consider it to be a weakening. Then it doesn't matter what those who really didn't want this agreement and this passus at all mean. I do not agree that this has given you any freedom at all to do anything other than what is to be revised. Oddvard Nilsen said you should look at the scheme. No, the Government will implement the decision that the Storting is likely to take later today. They shall not carry out any reassessments; they shall implement the decision likely to be adopted a little later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e914	SV is pleased that there will be a solution to this matter. We've worked for it. And if no one has understood that before, I think everyone who has heard this debate and seen what has happened understands that here we have tried. We've gone a long way, and we've got a solution. It's sad that it hasn't happened before, and that you have to hold on like that in the last minute to get something more. SV respects the fact that others have a different basic view than us. But then others must also have respect for SV’s vision. And based on the composition that the Storting has, you just have to figure out that SV is in the tilt position in a lot of things, and that we're actually able to make compromises and get results. This matter and the debate have been marked by many absolute demands from many, and then we see that there is no solution. Obviously, the government has a big problem. It is that it is in a minority and has entered into an agreement with the Progress Party. That understands SV is very impure waters. But it's a little strange because they haven't found a solution to this within the cooperation that they have entered into, and they're obviously trying to say in principle that they agree. We are pleased that there will now be a solution to this matter. We see that a locomotive has been necessary to get to port at all. We've been there now, and we're also prepared to be there in other things that are of great importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e925	I asked for the floor one more time, linked to Mr Hagen's speech. It's a bit of a special approach that you claim that an agreement only applies to one party. Of course, the agreement we have signed applies to both parties. In addition, Mr Hagen read a letter from the shipping companies. To repeat what I said in my post: The right parties and government parties have not entered into an agreement with either the Shipowners' Association, the Color Line or the Fjord Line. We have reached an agreement with political opponents from another party, the Progress Party. That's what we're dealing with, and that's why I repeat what I said, that this is obviously a breach of the agreement that we have. Of course, we will vote against this proposal. In addition, I would like to ask the representative, Mr Hagen, when I see that he has asked for the floor, to comment on the premises that form the basis of the SV's proposal. There is no doubt, if you read the SV's special comments in the committee setting, that they are against such an arrangement. They are against reimbursement, they are against tax subsidies, they are against the EU. That means that the very premise for the proposal for a decision that is here today clearly indicates that there may not be a majority for such a system at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e936	In many contexts, the Progress Party strongly criticises SV, and from time to time also the Workers' Party. Let me, therefore, today be allowed to give credit because the SV, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party in the process have managed to come up with a solution by giving up something to get something that will at least be a strengthening for the offshore companies. That's how, as Karin Andersen also said, you have to try to make compromises. We have. And we are pleased that SV has also changed its proposal to the following: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a fund, for example according to the Swedish model’. That makes it possible for us to vote in favour. That's because we're results oriented. I think it is a bit remarkable with the government parties that currently have as their main purpose the prevention of decisions, preventing anything from happening. So to Oddvard Nilsen's last post. It is clear that the agreement applies to both. I fully accept that. We have no agreement with the shipping companies, but the Progress Party, which has been the party that has fought this, has a moral agreement with the shipping companies. It's us they've seen as the ones who'll be able to make sure that the reimbursement and net pay system they've had remains. There we feel that we have a not signed, but moral agreement. And that's why it's crucial for us that the shipping companies agree. The fact that there is no relation that the Right attaches to is the Right problem. But that's a little weird. When there are two parties to the agreement in normal daily terms, and one has insisted on getting something into the agreement that the other party really does not want, then it is strange that the party that really does not want that deal will move over to the other side and claim that it is a deterioration. When we, who demanded that during this four-year period we should have a guarantee against impairment, do not believe it is a deterioration, then it is remarkable that the Right says it. And especially when they say that it's obviously a impairment. The party of progress, which has been the party to protect against weakening, says, "No, this is an addition. It is a new fund to ensure funds for increased recruitment and skills in the maritime industry. And it feels like the shipping companies are very good to get, because they need recruitment and skills building, and they're also willing to pay for it. Then there's an addition, and nothing else. So to the premise for a decision. If there is a majority decision where the majority stands together in the ballot, you can look at what is in the ballot. If there's only one of the parties that have it in the setting, it's the party's premise. Then you have to look at the committee comments from the Labour Party and the Advance Party in the setting, and what we have said in the posts here in the Chamber. That's what's the premise. Oddvard Nilsen apparently believes, obviously erroneously, that there are SV's comments that are the premises for the decision. It's not. That's the total comments from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party and the posts here in the Chamber that are.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e952	Only a short final remark. I see that there are many who want fatherhood to this proposal that have brought us to agreement, and the interpretation of it. I just want to make it clear that SV has promoted this proposal. We have a slightly different approach to it, but our intention of the proposal has been tossed its roots in our remarks in the vote, and the government has to find the solution to that question after the assignment they are given when this proposal is adopted here today. I just want to underline it, so that it is not read as if only the premises of the Progress Party and the Workers' Party were to be based, but also SVS.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e957	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2167]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e977	Now, when we're going to go into the area of interaction between culture and business, I think it's important that one initially makes it clear that culture, of course, has a self-esteem. Culture is the impressions, experiences and well-being that contribute to the quality of life. When, through an interpellation, I want to focus on culture-based business development, it's not based on a desire to commercialize all cultural activities. But we need new business development, and culture-based business is one of the strongest growing industries in the Western world, and it has a high growth potential, a growth potential that we also here to countries should have good assumptions for extracting. I also believe that closer cooperation between industry and culture will strengthen the production of Norwegian art and culture and offer cultural life new opportunities for development. Looking widely at the concept of culture, it will include media, film, music, software, literature, design, communication, history, etc. This area is itself an industry of strong growth, a growth that has contributed, not least, to the digital revolution with new communications and the fusion of the media. The employment and social economy of these so-called creative industries exceed, for example: in a country like the US aviation and car industry several times. At the same time, the cultural sector in our countries is increasingly contributing to product development and the sale of traditional industrial products. If the goods are to sell, it is no longer just about quality and functionality, but a cultural added value has to be added through design, special environment they can be associated with, history, etc. It increases the value of the products. There is also some of the thinking behind the value creation programme we have started in agriculture. If the farmer is to be better paid for some of his products, products derived from local food tradition, culture, quality and environment must be developed and marketed. In the rich world, it looks like Maslow's needy pyramid is being filled up, and that we are now using more and more of our wealth to satisfy more immaterial needs, such as experiences, feelings and lifestyles. According to the Central Statistical Office, Norwegian households are now spending more on leisure and culture than on food. Many counties, regions and communities around the country are also strategically committed to culture as a business policy tool and to creating local identity, belonging and experiences. Culture also becomes a very important tourism product. I believe culture-based business is becoming important for developing regions, regional centres and districts around the country. It helps us to achieve our regional policy objectives of using the whole country – the coast, the inland, and also to take advantage of regional advantages. A lot happens and is going on around the country. The document ‘Interplay between cultural and business life’, jointly published by the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Economic Affairs in 2001, also called ‘Tango for two’, gives some examples. To show the tension in this, I mention a few examples from my own region. At Hundorp, a business related to Hundorp, Dale-Gudbrands Gard, has a unique collection of tombs and other ancient monuments, while Snorre has given the site a central location in the Norwegian Christian Story with its dramatic story of the meeting between Olav the Holy and Dale-Gudbrand. At Lillehammer Knowledge Park, there is an incredibly creative environment where it is focused on film industry, film production, experience-based tourism that plays on nature and culture, digital content production, festivals, etc. This has also provided the basis for business, organisations and the public to be involved in a wide range of regional development activities. They also have Nordic cooperation and a Nordic network. Others here probably have their examples around the country. Nevertheless, there is an unused potential. These development environments often weigh heavily. Capital, especially in a start-up and development phase, is defective. It is not easy to bring venture companies and other private investors into a targeted long-term investment. We're not getting enough speed on this business development. The possibilities are not being exploited well enough. The development, in my view, first of all suffers from the lack of a offensive state enterprise policy in this area, second from the lack of systematic analysis and documentation of the value creation and the opportunities offered by this sector, and thirdly from the absence of targeted programmes and economic instruments aimed at this industry. This hampers the breakthrough of innovation actors, companies and groups working hard to succeed in this field. The previous government took an initiative, as shown by the report on cultural and business life — ‘Tango for two’. I cannot see that this has been followed up by the sitting government. The report describes opportunities for growth in both culture and industry with better interaction, but also points to the need for follow-up and necessary action: developing arenas where the cultural sector and the business community can meet as a basis for increased interaction, understanding and transfer of competences, i.e. carry out a survey and analysis of existing cultural and industrial statistics to provide evidence of the economic importance of the cultural sector’s inclusion of design skills in business areas and the value-creating environment in districts, enhance State support for the marketing and profiling of Norway as a tourism target, in order to enhance the cultural dimension of lending and support for projects through SND support for experimental and development projects promoting Norwegian exports using cultural cooperation in the field of ICT; I believe that there is a need for a government policy that stimulates value creation in this field – some tangible steps, such as: dedicated programmes through SND or managed by SIVA, dedicated innovation companies developing professionalism in the field, their own fund building, proper documentation through research and follow-up research. We used to have our own programming effort in SND. It disappeared, even though an evaluation of Eastern research showed that the initiative had been successful. This government is prejudicial to business neutrality and has tight fiscal policies and lower taxes as apparently the only industrial policy instrument. In my view, the need to stimulate cultural-based economic development shows that targeted economic instruments are also needed, whether they are now channelled through SND, county or state funds. As I said, private investment capital is a long-term asset. It might be interesting to hear the Minister of Industry's assessment of the possibilities of directing some of the state's investment funds, Argentum, towards this industry. I refer in the interpellation to bet in other Nordic countries. The Swedish KK Foundation has long been committed to the experience industry. Last autumn, they provided support to five regional centres or meeting places for music, film, tourism, etc., which again triggered other capital of 40 million. kr over three years. Finland has worked purposefully and long-term to develop culture-based business, with complete innovation environments equipped with its own funds, they have established a diversity of so-called Centre of Expertise, etc. Now I'm not going to say that we should without delay copy this, but I think the Ministry of Industry should consider an idea of giving some of the research and knowledge parks and business areas special tasks to develop this field, for example. an innovation company in each part of the country. I have mentioned the need for research and documentation. Here the Danes have an advantage of having received the sector's contribution to value creation well documented in the report «Denmark's creative potential». Tango for two led to increased interaction between culture and business. This interaction must also be implemented at all levels — in the education sector and in departments. In the institutions of art and culture, one must also have a value-creating and market-oriented dimension. In human, economic and technical education, the cultural dimension must be understood. This interaction and understanding I hope are also anchored in the Ministry of Culture and in the Ministry of Enterprise. Yes, I also bring with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, which manages regional instruments. Finally, we know and see that there is a lot of exciting going on in Norway, from small projects in local communities to larger bets in cities and regional centres, such as Film 3 at Lillehammer, the town of art Risør, Vadsø nærhage, the rock environment in Bergen, etc., etc. Regions that choose to invest in culture-based industries in their development strategies should be actively encouraged to make this as difficult, professional and long-term as is required, if these opportunities are to be exploited.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1057	It's both interesting and challenging what the representative Rudihagen here is dealing with. Better cooperation between business and culture is a relatively new policy area in Norway, but we are doing well to gain new experience. I am concerned that there is developing creative alliances between cultural life and business, and I have no doubt that there is considerable potential for development in closer cooperation. The aim of focusing on a closer interaction between cultural life and business is to increase value creation. Some national and international developments suggest that it can be beneficial for both parties. It provides a basis for increased interaction between cultural and business life. The document points to opportunities while demonstrating why cooperation is important. Now it will be important for business and cultural life to take advantage of the opportunities that exist. I believe that interaction is not primarily a matter of increased resources from the state. Interaction is primarily about developing innovation and creativity, based on common cultural and business needs. Meetings as a basis for increased interaction and knowledge transfer are important. Experience from other countries shows that the development of meeting places is of great importance. The Culture & Business Forum is such a meeting place to act as a driver and inspiration. My Department and Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Church support the Forum financially, so that it can function as a bridge builder and be a central meeting place. If enterprises and cultural representatives make active use of the opportunities provided by the Forum, it can help break some of the barriers that exist today between cultural and business life and facilitate increased cooperation. Another upcoming meeting place between culture and business is a new Norwegian design and architecture centre, where Norwegian Design Council and Norwegian Form are to be co-located. In such a centre, we will combine visual exhibitions with a high level of competence and advice to companies. This can give good marketing effect to the audience and increase the possibilities for knowledge transfer to businesses. The centre is scheduled to be clear during the first six months of 2004. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has provided funds to stimulate, inter alia: new and good forms of cooperation through the pilot and development project. We have supported the project, for which we have great expectations. In order to make the most of the work currently being done, the Ministry proposes that the results be properly disseminated. We also say that those who have received support for development projects will gather next winter to evaluate this together. The results will then be presented and discussed. After that, we will then evaluate our work in this area and consider any further progress. In addition to this collection, the Ministry, in cooperation with the Forum for Culture & Business, is planning a conference this spring focusing on cultural-based regional economic development. We have received a good deal of feedback that this is a topic that many people are interested in, both in culture and in business. It is important to trigger creativity, wealth of ideas and innovation in business, and the Government has decided to draw up an action plan for a comprehensive innovation policy. I have the primary responsibility for progress in the work. The main lines are in line with investigations and policy proposals that have been promoted both in the EU and in the OECD. A comprehensive innovation policy involves, inter alia: that more policy areas are seen in context, and that we identify and remove barriers to innovation. Key areas included are entrepreneurship, start-up of new activities, research, development, commercialisation, knowledge and competence, infrastructure and, of course, last but not least, general business framework conditions. A good industrial policy should always contribute to economic transformation and to making new knowledge and skills easily available to businesses and industries. Enterprises' strategic response to migration needs and increased competition is innovation. Innovation provides business with better products and services, increases profitability and provides the basis for long-term growth. In the Ministry's efforts to increase cooperation between industry and culture, the use of Norwegian design in product development is a central area. Good design makes Norwegian companies more competitive by distinguishing goods and services produced positively from competitors. For a small country such as Norway, it is important to bet on its peculiarity and quality. Design is a way of marking differences between other identical products and giving attention to the products. Good and timely design is increasingly what makes the consumer choose one product rather than another. Therefore, it is important to develop products that are both good to use and have an expression with which customers will identify themselves. In addition, if the product is of good quality, it is a long way to achieve success. Design is also important for profiling Norway abroad. There are already some Norwegian companies using design as a competitive tool. We have a lot of good designers who can add new ideas and visions. I would therefore like to work to ensure that several companies use the expertise of Norwegian designers so that they can be better equipped to meet the increased international competition. Good design and aesthetics are important keywords. Therefore, it is important that designers are constantly engaged in new products. It is through new developments that competitiveness is ensured and that businesses secure their position on the market. A study by the Norwegian Design Council in 2002 shows that relatively few companies are still using design actively. We have a good deal left for the goal that was set in the Nutritional Design Committee. At least 50 pst. by Norwegian companies, design shall be used as a process tool in the development of new products by 2005. Nevertheless, the trend is very positive. The use of IT contributes to new opportunities for cultural enterprise development. The traditional lines of division between culture and industry are becoming increasingly unclear. The increased prevalence of computers and the emergence of the Internet have led to products such as: were found on paper and plate, now available for communication via the Internet, in digital form. A number of these products come from the cultural sector, for example: music and films, such as the interpellant mentioned. The new forms of dissemination represent both an increase in value creation potential and a challenge to adapt framework conditions to a new era. Industrial policy and cultural policy are even more intertwined than before, and the challenges are absolutely great for both. We see an increasing tendency for skills and resources in the cultural sector to be an important input in other sectors — for example, in Europe. likely to be more important in other industries in the future. This issue is particularly relevant for Norway, which is a small language community. The new formats and forms of communication also open up to value creation through increased re-use of public information in commercial contexts. An important part of these resources comes from the cultural sector. This is where the state faces a challenging role as a facilitator. The Government addressed these challenges in the Electronic Content Strategy presented last year in April. Cultural memories are important at the intersection of business and cultural life. Cultural memories are important resources for the community, with a major impact on its peculiarity, identity and industrial development. The government wants to focus more on how cultural memories can become a resource for local and regional development. Cooperation with organisations, the research and investigation community and industry is under way to identify examples and ways of using cultural memories in rural development. The cultural memory fund established by the Government becomes an important tool for ensuring development and value creation based on cultural memory resources. The Fund shall have a role to play in stimulating and triggering projects with potential for value creation. The government will follow up on this in the forthcoming keynote on cultural memory policy. Untraditional and innovative thinking, both in business, cultural and government life, is necessary to succeed in triggering the creative opportunities inherent in the interaction between cultural and business life.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1097	I would like to thank the Minister of Industry for many kind words about the value of an increased interaction between culture and business – and perhaps a little about the potential that lies here, purely nutritional and developmental. But it was very little concrete and in a way characterized by the inaction that goes on again when it relates to the industrial policy of this government. I showed in my article how other countries are investing. I also showed that there is a great potential here. It's an industry of enormous growth, of greater growth than traditional industry. I therefore ask for more concrete, offensive tool to come forward. I am calling for economic instruments, which are clearly bringing great socio-economic benefits. I've seen an example of that. For the project ‘Kulturbyen Bergen 2000’ there was a budget envelope of 110 million. NOK But the project itself triggered a documented socio-economic impact above NOK 1 billion, i.e. 10 times the effort. We see that traditional industry wears out. In one way or another, the industrial community has been influenced by the fact that a produced raw material is as cheap as possible, and that an organised production of skilled workers and good marketing. But then we're facing the situation that this can actually do with cheaper workers both in China, in India, in Poland, in Brazil, in the Czech Republic, in Slovakia and where it should be. In the Western world, I believe that we need to have our eyes and focus on adding cultural added value to the products, that one gets an experience – the Minister of Industry was concerned with design – entirely creating added value in the product, on which we have to invest to a far greater extent. I want to challenge the Minister of Industry a little in relation to what he said. He said that a now is working on an action plan for innovation policy. Then I assume that the Government has a strategy for how to achieve this kind of economic development. And then we have to invest in future value creation. What role and place will cultural businesses have in such a strategy? What about pointing out regional development environment, actors, in this area? What about contributing to fund-building and with programmes through SND or SIVA to exploit the opportunities available in this area? I consider the State Investment Fund and Argentum. Is it possible, when it's now being developed, to also direct some of it towards this industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1108	Rudihagen said in his first post that there is a lot of positive happening around the districts. There's a lot of positive happening on a regional basis. Very many people in both culture and business have found that it makes sense to play with each other to create value locally. Nor is there any doubt that the back carpet is that what the industrial community had was anything other than what we need to date. There is no doubt that the recreational sector, the cultural sector, is the fastest growing sector. This includes, among other things: the relationship with the fact, as the representative Rudihagen said in his first post, that people are using an increasing share of their total resources in leisure time. Here there is a significant potential. There were some concrete issues related to the action plan we are now making for innovation, which is clearly such a place where this will be an important part. It is through such an action plan that we get the different elements from the responsibilities of the different departments to interact even better. It is clear that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has traditionally engaged in industrial policy, the Ministry of Culture with culture, the Ministry of Transport with its, etc., but it is quite obvious that for the total value creation it is important to see these things in a context. It would not be unnatural to look at the use of instruments after the presentation of the action plan, which will come quite parallel to the government budget for the autumn, in order to achieve the objectives we set ourselves in it, and then that is the key to SND and SIVA. Another specific question was related to Argentum, whether one is willing to go in and direct Argentum to invest specifically in this. Now it is the case that the premises for the governance structure in Argentina were laid in the Stortinget in June 2001, as the representative Rudihagen probably remembers. It's a fund-in-fund investment company, but it's not in any way cut off from doing these things. – Now I was talking, because we're going to make a proposition in a month. I've already taken some points of view around Argentum, but it might have been a little early to announce this to the Stortinget. – It's going to be a long time to sit in the hall! With regard to what was said in relation to local cultural memories and the involvement in it, I just have to say from my own experience as rapporteur in a municipality that there is a significant potential for exploiting these things locally. We have ancient memories that are thousands of years old, which we have to a great extent managed to make available to the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1121	Small leaks from the government we always appreciate here in the hall, councillor!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1124	This discussion shows that it is necessary to focus on the interaction between cultural life and industry. As has been said before, this is a win-win situation, which we have to get to. But to get the situation that we all win, we have to break some barriers, admit that new paths lead. In Health Mid-Norway I heard that they had now sought advice from the revision festival in the Highlands. The relationship between former Levanger Hospital and Namdal Hospital, which has been almost two independent units, needs to be resolved after the new hospital reform. What is more effective than contacting cultural institutions for help? It brings people together, they experience things together, and – not least – they laugh together. This is an underestimated way of resolving conflicts. Business has many barriers to economic and human making a good profit if you put culture into action. Another good example is a project that has come from Innpäll AS in Nord-Trøndelag. They operate with theaters and, together with NHO and LO, have launched a project called ‘Theater as a communication tool for value creation’. The goal is, among others: that one shall contribute to the recognition of Turkish young people and older people as persons with resources and creativity, with reference as a force for further development of the region. Through theaters as a educational tool, they will provide insight into the challenges we face as citizens of society today. These are some of the targets. I am convinced that a youth who has participated in that kind of culture becomes a better worker. I am also convinced that he will be a better employer – economically and humane. This is how both business and culture become winners. It is my hope that this can help people focus on harmony, quality of life and creativity. Maybe we can avoid such high scores as we looked at the news this week, that we eat more pills than ever, for example. for depression. Quality of life is both something to live for and something to live from. That's why this is so important.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1139	With reference to Mr Gaundal's intervention here on pills, this initiative by the representative Rudihagen is not to be depressed, rather to the contrary. The inter-pellant deserves tribute for taking an initiative in an area where I believe Norway has a very high potential. Let me also express my satisfaction with the answer given by the Council of State. He pointed out that we are now getting new arenas, new meeting places, where, among other things, design will be put more into the high-seat than has been the case in the past, and this will also give you an arena where you can focus on culture as an export product that can be further developed. In fields that to date have not been sufficiently focused, such as music, which is a new field for export and value creation, we already have export articles, companies and actors that do it very well internationally. I think it's important that we all take it inwards and make sure, both locally and centrally, that these actors get leeway – literally – to be involved in value creation and further development. This applies not least to Norwegian film players, who are doing very well — many recognition prices have been harvested in recent years. But I think it's important to stress that you don't have to apply for this to be a public task. If you don't look at the potential for increased value creation in this new area, you won't be able to take out the potential of export and increased value creation in this area. I believe, as the Council of State was aware, that with the opportunities for freedom and fewer political ties offered by the review of the instrument, it will only provide a good basis for sharing and further developing the concept of culture as a concept to go hand in hand with the concept of value creation, to growth and development for all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1150	At a time of fewer industrial jobs and increased unemployment, it is particularly important to be creative and see opportunities to replace lost jobs. Then something new and forward-looking must be created. The report to which the interpellant refers may be a good starting point for such a development. It has some good points and refers to practical examples on which to build. Some other Western countries have come a long way in developing this interrelationship between culture and business, to which more people point in the debate. Practical and good results, albeit somewhat varied, can be referred to. We should also come to a stronger recognition in Norway that this interaction between culture and business is important. Synergistic effects are to be derived from such interaction. Some businesses in our country have already taken advantage of the opportunities, such as: Hadeland Glassworks and Ringnes. These establishments are as a cultural history in itself, and they are used as part of the marketing of products and services and make a valuable contribution to their performance. Another example is agriculture, which is in the process of developing specialities based on culture and traditions. It also applies to farm tourism. Through increased investment and insight, both the cultural sector and the business community can benefit from such interaction. Cultural life can receive income from new sources. Furthermore, it may involve transfer of competence in business development, marketing and economics, which is provided by business. On the other hand, as part of marketing, business can enjoy and benefit greatly from cooperation with cultural life, as part of marketing. The possibilities are many, ranging from playing on cultural history for a product to organizing cultural events as part of marketing. From the point of view of the Progress Party, it must be stressed that cultural and business life must itself see the opportunities, find together and stand for development. The public shall not have a leading role or be dominant in its management. What the authorities should do is to ensure a sensible cultural and industrial policy, so that it becomes attractive for our businesses to try out new opportunities, take risks and collect a profit. This will make it easier for those enterprises and cultural institutions that see the benefit of such cooperation to develop competitive advantages, because they will have more resources available to invest in new business opportunities and new areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1163	If we are to have a link between culture and nutrition, we must have both a tool given from above and a mobilisation from below. If we look at the contents of the two outlines, we find a lot of similarities. Both culture and nutrition are about creating something new. Both activities have a belief in the future and a belief in their own forces. For the edges, the Image Creation Perspective is also extended. districts must be culturally attractive in order for us to develop and maintain the skills that can further process the natural resources on which our economy rests. Some people think culture should be a commodity in a market, or that business should be a source of funding for culture. We need precisely to achieve more targeted integration and overshooting in the sector. Too many cultural activities lack a commercial professionalism, and too many industrial projects failed because one has not understood the cultural framework for production and marketing. Where I come from, several actors, both public and private, have joined forces and developed a nature-use project: the link between nature, culture and industrial interests. The objective is to increase value creation through natural and culture-based economic development in and by selected protected areas. A desire to clarify and mitigate the conflict between protection and local nutrition development and to exploit the protected areas for the marketing of the county as a bus stop, a workplace and a travel destination. One has identified the problems and solved obstacles to progress. These seem to be economics, centralisation, lack of ideas, lack of communication, lack of time, lack of courage and lack of competence. But there should be hope of getting over these obstacles. A group of business committees stressed the importance of actively pursuing innovation policies, facilitating creativity, ideas and start-ups in the last budget management process. If these words are to something more than words, what action must be taken. It requires a strong commitment to research and development, and it does not require at least an active instrument. Then we need an instrument tool that has different tools for the different stages of the innovation and innovation process. The finance committee has this week been on Sunnmøre, and there Jens Petter Ekornes, who used to say the following: Without district development funds, it didn't have our industry on Sunnmøre today. It tells us just how important it is that we have an instrument tool that is strong and that is emerging, not least in these times when business wears off. And that's what we have to take responsibility for. SV is therefore looking forward to the warning message about the instrument and the action plan on holistic innovation policies on which the Council of State was involved. But that means they both have to have the exact angle of incidence that the interpellant has picked up today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1178	I want to give tribute to the interpellant for bringing up a very important theme in terms of closer cooperation between nutrition and culture. In this context, I would like to highlight in particular the contribution that agriculture can make and that stands for nature and culture throughout the country. There are huge unused resources in this interaction. I would also like to mention reworked design, which in the future will appear to be a growth industry in Norway, as there are strong traditions that can be liberated in this interplay between local performances and bets on nutritional development. I would also point out that cooperation between culture and business should lead to local identity consolidation and local involvement. Therefore, it is important that a word is used to do this. It has a practical impact on economic development locally, but it is also reflected in key action plans. In this context, I would just like to draw the line below what the Council of State said, that we also want to play a central role in the development of such an interesting connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1195	The interpellant has addressed a very important topic. By and large, we can say it so that people have to have something to live with. But just as important is having something to live for, and here culture comes in as a coordinating factor. Gro Harlem Brundtland once said that everything is related to everything. Then people, nature, culture, educational opportunities, work and leisure activities are needed. By strengthening awareness and security of what you stand for and where you belong, you will also strengthen enthusiasm and develop the opportunities that exist. Action on culture creates active communities, triggers creativity and creates ideas and innovation, which in turn lead to skilled practitioners, but also to jobs. An active and targeted focus on culture is good district policy. Fortunately, it is not that all cultural activity is concentrated in cities – perhaps on the contrary either. However, the major cost-intensive measures are usually in cities. The Culture Committee was a week in Spain last year, where we also visited the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao. The Guggenheim Museum must be Europe's best example of how culture can contribute to urban and urban development. 80-90 pst. by the inhabitants of Bilbao was actually against the construction of the museum. Nevertheless, politicians decided to build, and in three to four years the debt was paid off. Here, culture and nourishment went hand in hand. The Culture Committee was also travelling in Northland and Trom's last harvest. We visited, for example: The Mo i Rana National Library, a good example of workplaces related to cultural and information technology. Furthermore, we experienced cultural sites that provided the basis for tourism products, and where culture provided content for different service products. It will always be important for companies to develop goods and services that are different from competitors in a positive way. It's hard to sell just clean air and nature, although this is an important part of Norway's advertising. But we who live here know that this has to be linked to different types of businesses if customers are to get what the product they expect, and then we're also talking about pure food. Culture is becoming more and more internationalized and commercial, like everything else. It creates challenges for everyone to actively sell the diversity that we have in Norwegian culture. Here part of the business community, both Norwegian and foreign, has done a good job, but if we are to meet the challenges that lie at the intersection of culture and business, we need an up-to-date SND, and we need to clarify the economic importance of the cultural sector. We need good framework conditions for product development and marketing. But most of all, we want to use the whole country, with the diversity and the values that exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1212	I also want to pink the interpellant to have this debate brought up. It is really strange that this case does not get as much attention as the one we have discussed before today. Why is that? Yeah, it's because here it's really about innovation and innovation. What is it that we need to progress in this type of process? I want to make a small contribution in that context. I think that the active use of contemporary art in Norwegian companies should be tested. It's not insignificant what an environment we're surrounded with, and what we're going to create new ideas. On many levels, there must be a climate of innovation. In this context, I would like to invite the Minister of Industry to an enterprise here in Oslo, Signex, where a real user of contemporary art in this way. Of course, companies have to do the job, but the Minister of Industry could help businesses to focus more on the use of contemporary art in this work. What about giving the same depreciation on the purchase of art by novice artists as on computer equipment and fixtures? If companies are afraid that they will spend money selling the art with good profit, they may have the same tax arrangements for the return as for a dividend. Such a system would also have the effect of increasing the market for contemporary art monthly. This would give artists greater opportunity to live on their own income. Both Denmark and Sweden look at these kinds of schemes. Why not Norway too? It is good that creativity is recognised as decisive for Norwegian success both in terms of product development and promotion of Norwegian product in the market. I hope the Minister of Industry will evaluate both new and untraditional schemes in his work on the Action Plan for Innovation. This is a small country, and we have to use all the talents. It is now apparent, before various art articles, that Norwegian actors are making themselves highly up-to-date internationally. We really have something to use, both as a self-esteem and as a transferred value, to promote Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1221	I got the impression that the representative Ivar Kristiansen thinks it's no public or state authority task to stimulate a culture-based business development. I'm just saying that it should be – a state task to try to exploit the potential of this growing region, at a time when to those degrees we need new nutritional development. What are we going to do with a Minister of Industry in this country if he doesn't want to try to stimulate in this area? I pointed out in my post that there is a lot going on here, and the Minister of Industry also agreed, but at the same time, they are exhausting. There are a lot of barriers. Whole developments are just a result of a lack of government industrial policy in this area, a lack of systematic analysis and documentation of the value and potential of this sector, and a lack of targeted programmes and economic instruments aimed at this industry. Now the Minister of Industry has a golden chance when it comes to the preparation of the paper on innovation policy and tools. That is why I believe that once again I have to challenge the Minister of Industry to come up with a little more concrete action. Firstly, will the Minister of Industry take the initiative in identifying and documenting what this sector stands for, and what possibilities lie in it? Secondly, will the Council of State take the initiative to be involved and point out some regional, complete innovation centres, where one might be in charge of specific areas? And thirdly, will one take the initiative to create some economic instruments through SND, SIVA or whoever it might be, so let what happens in Sweden, so that these development environments have some funds to move on? What they are now largely stopping is simply a lack of capital, and, as I was in it, it is not easy to get private venture capital to invest in a long-term way here. The Minister of Economic Affairs noted the importance of design and its follow-up, and that is right. We had a design message here in Stortinget some time ago, but I actually miss the concrete follow-up of her. One of the industries that may be the largest growth industry in District Norway is travel. Travel life and culture hang carefully in hops. Culture is becoming an increasingly important product for travel. Isn't it time that travel life also got a slightly different status in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, not at least a separate department?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1240	The representative, Gaundal, said that all aspects of cultural life had to be taken into account, including humor. She referred to a concrete project in Nord-Trøndelag – a project that, as far as I understood, was funded by LO and NHO – which had the title: theatre as communication. Now it's almost paychecking, so they might need some of what they've learned from this project in the Nord-Trøndelag. At least it shows that there is considerable diversity in this area. As the interpellant was inside, it could be that this is a potential that is untapped. The question is how do we, on the public side, contribute to the realization of these things? Ideas have also been launched, including: by the representative of Tweiten, on the use of contemporary art. Besides the fact that I got an invitation to visit a company in Oslo together with my former committee colleague, Mrs. Tveiten – such an invitation, of course, I accept – was the most important signal, and perhaps the most interesting thing, that tax relief via depreciation was a way to go. Interestingly, there is also an increasing recognition in the Workers' Party that this can be useful in business, even in promoting contemporary art and using it in business. I guess that's a good idea. As far as I remember on the move, at least one of the government parties has this in their election program, so at least I'm going to promise the representative that I will take it with me and look at it. Torstein Rudihagen asks if the Ministry of Economic Affairs sits on a systematic analysis of the value of what is happening, related to the use of culture in the broadest sense. As far as I know here I'm standing, I don't think there's any proper analysis of those things. However, I think the issue is interesting and should definitely take it with me. After all, we will have plenty of opportunity to address this in the innovation action plan that we are going to make, and in the review we have linked to SND and SIVA, which the interpellant also had to offer. With regard to the fact that there is little private capital in relation to venture capital, it is both right and wrong. It's definitely been more liberal in the past. However, with the tax policy that this government adopts, I think it could improve in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1253	That is the examination of case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1267	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there will be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1274	Document No 8:13 for 2002-2003 is designed to amend the regulation on plant protection products so that everyone with a course in the use of plant protection products is given authorisation and the possibility to purchase a plant protection product. On the basis of this initiative, the Ministry asks the Agricultural Inspectorate to amend Section 4 of the instruction so that hobbyists with established interests can obtain an authorisation certificate and thus obtain stronger plant protection products than are available to ordinary hobbyists. The Committee welcomes this as a good temporary solution in relation to its proposers for a more general opportunity for hobbyists to buy stronger products for use in the fight against undesirable crops. From the Committee's point of view, it is important to continue the strict application of the legislation on the use of plant protection products in order to reduce their use and reduce the risk to health. I am thinking in particular of children who have easily come into contact with these funds during storage, and of general pollution, as there will usually always be plant protection residues that remain more or less uncontrolled in the hobby farmer. Against this background, the Committee wishes to maintain a strict regulatory framework, but will allow new entrants to step up production to the professional level by giving them access to their own plant protection products, without weakening the regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1287	Today, all those who are going to use plant protection products must have completed training in the use of these products. Here comes the category ‘holiday farmers’ in a special situation. Some of them want to develop their operations to become an additional industry, and have completed and passed courses in the use of pesticides, but are refused authorisation. Norwegian agriculture is struggling with high standards of efficiency and quality improvement requirements. Therefore, it is important that conditions are also facilitated. It is necessary to assist operational persons, otherwise the basis for establishment on a commercial and professional basis disappears. Developments show that it is often the minor uses that first need to be considered for alternative production options. They may be well suited for small scale production, e.g. in the fruit and vegetables sector. We have here hobbyists who want to further develop the business to become an additional industry. These may be small users who have properties that are too small to traditional agriculture but who want to use the property for small scale production of, for example: fruit for sale in the neighbourhoods. Before a commercial exploitation of this type of small-scale production can be pursued, some have to find, over a period of development, forms of operation suitable for the property and suitable for commercial production. During such a development period, it will be necessary to test different types of pesticides in order to optimise the quality of the products. At this stage, the current legislation will be considered to be a hobby breeder and will therefore not be granted authorisation. As a result, the development of products and production methods can be halted, blocking the development of commercial production. It is therefore gratifying that the Minister of Agriculture agrees that Section 4 of the instructions for issuing an authorisation certificate for the use and purchase of plant protection products may seem unreasonable to new entrants. The Ministry now allows the Agricultural Inspectorate to review the instructions so that hobbyists with concrete plans to further develop the business to become an additional industry are given an authorisation. We expect that the legislative changes to be made will be designed in such a way that they are not seen as unnecessarily problematic and square for commercial operators in the food production industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1298	I just want to confirm briefly that we are working on changing Section 4 of this instruction, which opens up the possibility that those who are now hobbyists, but who aim to build up this hobby to become an industry, will be given the opportunity to obtain such an authorisation. I am pleased that the Committee is gathering that those of us who have two or three roses will not be able to use the strongest pesticides on their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1308	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2169]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1324	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to up to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1333	This is a very small but important matter. But the committee is unanimous, so I'll try to make this brief so that we might get through the matters in the morning meeting. What is perhaps the most important thing we have achieved in this matter is that the entire committee agrees that the principle of universal design must be used when looking at how to develop and build society further. That's important, because it assumes that everyone has equal opportunities to participate. It's important to have full availability both inside and outside. The size is a house where you also have some problems with accessibility for people with disabilities, so here we have a job to do. A major communication addressing the overall disability policy in the spring of 2003 will be presented. We look forward to it and hope it comes, because it's very important to get this in place. Here we don't have as much to boast of as we should have had. There is a long way left for people with disabilities to move and use their opportunities like others and gain their rights. So to the specific matter. It is such that when you dig in a road or in a place or in front of a house, you have a duty to put the place back in place as it was, and if it was then available to people with disabilities, it's okay, but if it wasn't, you'll continue to have it as bad. It is that part of the Committee, with the good help of the Government, that has provided guidance on how this can be implemented. The Committee has unanimously agreed that the Government should extend the regulations to both the Planning and Building Act and to the Road Act, so that it is now also required that areas in which they have been dug be put in place so that the accessibility of people with disabilities is safeguarded if it was not initially so. I recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1348	There is no unknown issue that underlies the proposal of the Centre Party in this matter. There is no local government that has had issues about accessibility for people with disabilities on the agenda, both once and several times. Many local politicians and rapporteurs have received personal enquiries and reports on how difficult everyday life can be for people with disabilities. The physical environment is not always well organized, and the barriers are still many, too many. Former governments have naturally had a focus on the issues. In the ‘Available Society’ area of St.meld. No 8 for 1998-1999, the aim was to remove the barriers to equality and full participation of people with disabilities in all areas of life. In the light of NOU 2001:22 ‘From user to citizen’, the Cooperative Government will present a new growth message addressing the overall policy for disabled people, and in the Right we welcome the treatment of this important growth message. It is positive that a unanimous committee stresses that, for some questions, it is unnecessary to await the processing of the notified notification. The parties to the Municipal Committee are in agreement and agree to this positive case. Municipal Minister Erna Solberg has also been positive, and we therefore see no reason to say anything but that we agree on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1355	Only a very brief statement on this matter by my side and by the Progress Party. Facilitating good and best-possible accessibility for people with disabilities in society is an important issue, supported by all parties on the Stortinget. A society that is as accessible as possible for all, regardless of its function, must, in the light of the Progress Party, among other things. be ensured through the design and arrangement of infrastructure, public and private construction. It is therefore natural that certain standard requirements should apply, inter alia, to: the building design and accommodation through the legislative and regulatory framework in this area. The Progress Party supports this. For the Progress Party, it is important to act in line with the declared objectives of facilitating the best possible use of disabled persons and to ensure that such objectives are properly implemented in the planning and implementation process itself. The Progress Party therefore looks forward to the Government promoting its own big message on the challenges facing disabled people’s conditions and this with accessibility. The Progress Party will therefore give priority to the needs of people with disabilities by facilitating their free movement in society in a physical way. And we will follow this up in the best possible way when the Stortingen report comes to processing in Stortingen later in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1366	All measures that can facilitate better conditions for the disabled, I and the Christian People's Party warmly welcome. I therefore want to commend the initiative of the proposers in this matter. The Committee refers in its position to the letters from the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs and the Minister for Transport. I would also like to commend the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs for her proposals on additions to the regulation of the Law on Planning and Building. The addition will just meet the intentions of the proposers, and the Committee asks the Government to extend the regulations in line with what they have outlined. From the Flower Committee in its time working on integration, it has been a struggle, a fight for disabled people. As we have received legal housing and legal homes, there has still been a struggle to ensure that this should not just be printed in laws and regulations. My hope is that when we get this supplement in the prescription, it will be followed up and not just a prescription that is on the paper. It has something to do with our attitudes. A won right is not won until it becomes a natural right. It's my hope that we from this hall and those who are going to do things outside follow up on what we're now getting in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1375	NOU 2001:22 From user to citizen, entitled ‘A strategy for the reduction of disability barriers’, is a historical document. In preparing this document, the Manneråk Selection has provided a full and thought-provoking explanation of what it is like to be disabled today, and the selection has made a number of suggestions for action for a disability. It is very crucial for a better everyday life for people with disabilities that NOU 2001:22 is followed up as soon as possible. A central enhancement area is availability. Document No 8:154 for 2001-2002 refers to a small piece in the broad context, namely that where it has been excavated, it must be put in place, not just as it is now returned to pre-excavation status, but to ensure better accessibility for people with disabilities. Chapter 8 of NOU 2001:22 has the heading ‘Accessibility’. I think this is the case, for example. the ‘Open City’ project in Kristiansand, where one invests for a decade in both job availability, housing, cultural and leisure activities, challenge and communication. In addition, it is referred to Joensuu in Finland, where one in the development of the suburb of Marjala adapted housing and outdoor environment for all. Seattle has in a few years made the street environment available, because one has a conscious bet. Barcelona, in the same way as Lillehammer, exploits the challenges of being a host city for the Olympic Games to develop accessibility for people with disabilities. Today, Barcelona has been very well closed with the improvement of accessibility through ordinary maintenance and rehabilitation programmes. It is after Barcelona's referral that the proposers have put forward this simple, non-negligible proposal. We are very pleased with both the way in which the committee, by the case-speaker, has dealt with this, and the way in which the department has opposed the proposal and put forward proposals for a solution. I would just like to stress the need to make the necessary changes to the regulations, both the planning and building laws and the road laws, and that this will be done as quickly as possible. So I'm going to say that in the Center Party, we have had a special commitment earlier to a big-time message that spelled out the disability, and we're responding with interest to the message that the Government now has. We'll come back with further suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1388	I just want to make a few brief comments. I am pleased that we all agree that this is a good measure. It is important to improve accessibility in all areas of activity in our society. It is clear that good practice in small areas means a lot so that this should not also entail additional costs. There is no extra cost if you have access to the entire project when you build a new one, but at the moment you have to make sure that you have availability after building a new one, the extra costs will come. That's why it's important to have this with you in many areas. I just want to make it clear that we have already started the work. In the letter of hearing, which also follows up all the other changes that the Storting has made to the Planning and Building Act, we have also inserted new text related to availability requirements, in line with what is in the setting. We're going to be able to do this from the same point in time as we're doing the other thing, around July 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1395	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2169]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1410	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, from Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposals No. 2 and 3, by Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party proposals No. 4 and 6, from Åsa Elvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President noted that proposal No. 5, by the Socialist Left Party, has not been taken up, but has been replaced by a proposal in amended version, proposal No. 6, available in the seats of the representatives. Ivar Kristiansen – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1427	I recommend that the government parties vote in favour of minority motion No. 1 and for III of the Committee's recommendation. For the sake of order, I also ask the parties to the Government to vote against proposal No. 6, by the Socialist Left Party, with the reasons given during the debate by the Right parliamentary leader, Oddvard Nilsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1434	Proposal No. 1 is a proposal promoted by the Right, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party, so it's natural. Bendiks H. Arnesen – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1439	It is true that the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Centre have a majority in the Business Committee, but are in a minority in the Chamber. If the position of the Committee under I and II is not adopted, I would recommend that the representatives of the Labour Party vote subsidiaryly for the amended proposal of the Socialist Left. Of course, as far as III is concerned in the Committee's position, we are voting in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1446	Åsa Elvik – explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1449	Only to clear out any doubt: SV shall vote primarily for proposal No. 4, secondary for proposal No 6th@item: inlistbox We shall vote against Roman numerals I and II in the vote, for Roman numeral III in the vote, against proposal No. 2 and 3 and for proposal No 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1454	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to submit a revenue-neutral proposal in the context of the 2004 State Budget, which reintroduces all or part of the ordinary company tax on Norwegian reindeer while proposing measures to stimulate innovation and the use of Norwegian knowledge and competences in the maritime industries.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1469	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals in the Revised National Budget for 2003 to raise the level of aid under the reimbursement scheme to 20 pst. of gross wage and salary costs for all shipping which are subject to international competition in the scheme, including tugs and bow loaders and other categories of vessels excluded under the transport conditions at the same level of reimbursement.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to establish a net model that can be applied to all Norwegian seafarers who are exposed to international competition. It is assumed that the Government will present concrete proposals in the Revised National Budget for 2003 with effect from 1 January 2004.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1490	It will then be replaced by alternative between the I and II options and proposal No. 1, from the Right, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1505	Proposal No. 1, from the Right, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party, says: ‘Document No. 8:21 [[2002-2003]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1521	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government of the Revised National Budget 2003 is asked to come back with an extension of the net pay regime to offshore vessels in the NOR register with effect from 1 July 2003.The Government is asked to draw up rules requiring a certain number of apprenticeships for Norwegian seafarers on ships covered by the net pay scheme. This shall ensure an average of 2 apprentices per ship covered by the net pay scheme.The Government is asking for the establishment of a fund, for example according to the Swedish model, to be used for measures to promote maritime industry competence and recruitment, in particular for training at sea. The Fund shall be made available in consultation with the shipping companies concerned and the employees’ organisations. The Fund is financed by the payment of DKK 470 per month per employed person on all Norwegian ships covered by the net payroll scheme.The Government requests that positive business development be linked to all ships under the net payroll scheme.The Government asks for proposals for concrete terms in accordance with the above mentioned in the Revised National Budget 2003.» [[e.g. demonstrable investments in addition to normal levels of HMS work, innovation and industrial development in research institutions, suppliers and other enterprises in the maritime cluster]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1535	The Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1560	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27.ana.ud1013e1599	There is no record.
