ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e38	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e43	I suggest Heidi Grande Røys.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e48	Heidi Grande Røys has been proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Heidi Grande Røys is unanimously elected president of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e62	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the exchange of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e73	The government has in Ot. pp. No 11 put forward proposals to repeal the Opening Time Act and to amend the Law on Holidays and Holiday Peace, so that the regulation of opening hours on these days is included in this Act. Correspondingly, for 1 May and 17 May. The government says in its proposal that supply and demand are better suited than the law to regulate opening hours. This is the broad consensus on – a consensus that includes the government parties, the Labour Party and the Advance Party. I have noticed that a thorough hearing has been carried out prior to the promotion of this case. Most sceptical is the employee organisations. I think we all understand that, but I think some of this fear is unfounded. We will hardly have a situation there, for example. malls are open all night five to six days a week. Probably only a few shops will find it reasonable to extend the opening time beyond what you have today, and they will probably occupy the increased need for labour with students who need a little extra income — and perhaps with part-time workers who want to work a little extra. There are many shops that are already doing this today to cover up evenings and Saturdays, without any noise for that reason. It is also important that we focus on consumers in this case. According to the proposal, the Consumer Council agrees that the opening time law should be repealed. We have to focus on that right here in Odelstingen. So once again, there is agreement between the government parties, the Labour Party and the Progress Party that the opening time law should be repealed. There's also stopping the consensus. The Government and the Workers' Party will extend the obsolete Holidays and Holiday Peace Act so that it will now regulate sales from permanent outlets on public holidays and on 1 and 17 May. On those days, all the customs rules previously laid down in the opening time law shall be maintained. Among other things, the so-called Brustad Bua of 100 m2 is maintained and refuelling stations shall not exceed 150 m2. For example, a grocery store of 101 m2 can be used. Keep open only if it is located on a campsite! I'm actually very lucky. I have a grocery store of 99 m2 right down the street and a campsite in the same part of the city that I live in. I also get an freedom of choice on Sundays. But not many are in this situation. This is where there is a huge logical flaw: the government and the Labour Party believe that supply and demand are better than the law to regulate the opening hours – but this only applies from Monday to Saturday! Night to Sunday, this principle ceases to work. I should have liked someone, especially from the Right Party, to explain this to me. For years I have heard from the Right People say that they see it as inappropriate that official inspectors carry out an opening time check equipped with measuring tapes. This must apply whether it is Friday afternoon or it is Sunday afternoon. This amendment of the law requires the maintenance of a bureaucratic system to check compliance with the rules. If we had the same rules for the whole week, we could save a lot of bureaucracy and a lot of control hours. I feel absolutely certain that there is a very small proportion of Norwegian consumers who want to make large purchases on Sundays, Christmass, Easters, 1 or 17 May. The need to keep open these days will therefore be minimal, and it will be unnecessary to have special rules in this area. If I'm amazed at the Right, I'm directly shocked by the Workers' Party. As late as the summer, several workers' party politicians were out in the media and said that they would end the restrictions of opening hours even on Sundays. This applies to both Karita Bekkemelm Orheim, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and Sylvia Brustad. The quotations can be found in the preferences dialog. Now it is not parliamentary to call anyone a liar, but I have difficulty finding other words that can be comprehensive in the description of the Workers' Party's handling of this matter. Another thing that annoys me is that we have the silly tarpaulins that we have to go over the beer boxes after noon. 20 in Norwegian stores. I have heard this both right-wing politicians and workers' party politicians get angry, but they do not follow up. I saw, for example, an article in the summer VG, on 18 July 2002. It has the title "Want to have beer 24 hours a day". It's an interview with the former state council – now a big representative – Karita Bekkemelm Orheim, where she says: ‘I am absolutely in favour of more liberalisation of beer sales. We don't achieve much with time constraints. People are able to regulate their buyers even if they can act around the clock." However, there is no support for the proposals of the Progress Party in this area. The progress party believes it is directly pointless to distinguish between deodorants, detergents and food on one side and beer on the other side when the shops are now supposed to be able to keep open 24 hours a day around most of the week. Alcohol, after all, is a legal product. Although what I have pointed out is negative in this setting, it is still a joyous day for consumers. We are very pleased that it now appears that the bulk of the population is following what has been a battle cause for the Progress Party for a long time, removing the opening time law. With this, I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e116	Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e119	The opening time law regulating the opening time provisions has a two-part purpose. It should ensure flexibility for consumers in the trade in goods, while at the same time providing for people who work in the trade in goods, the needs they have for a normal working time, free when others are free — at least one working day like most of us. The discussion on the opening time law has been both long and difficult. The solutions that were found a few years ago created a lot of rabids, but it was a rabidness that slowed down. The vast majority of people have found themselves well equipped with the system they then came up with. Therefore, there is no popular demand for Odelstinget to re-treat the regulation of opening hours. However, the working party is open to other means of protecting the rights of workers. However, the Labour Party considers that the proposal put forward by the Government did not adequately address these concerns. In the view of the Workers' Party, the rights of workers and the rights currently conferred by the opening time law should be guaranteed by the Working Environment Act. However, the government does not propose any new provisions in the Working Environment Act that provide workers with safety in relation to night work. The government should have assessed and discussed, for example: provisions relating to entitlement to inconvenient working time supplements, the right not to be imposed on night shifts, the right to manning requirements providing safety in relation to fractions, ransacks and insecurity, which may be a problem at night. In this way, employees’ rights could be combined with the need for night - open shops, gas stations and kiosks. The working party believes that the proposition is a little too poorly prepared, and that the best thing was therefore to send the proposition back, so that the government could make the necessary changes. The Workers' Party believes that one possible solution is to regulate all employees' regulations by means of the Working Environment Act. The Workers' Party therefore proposes that the Government promote proposals to amend the Working Environment Act, so that workers' rights and protection in relation to work in night and Sunday-open establishments in the trade in goods are safeguarded by this Act. With that background, we can go in to remove the opening time law. If it turns out that the opening time law falls without increasing the number of people living in the working environment law, the Workers' Party will protect workers by means of public holiday legislation. Ideally, workers' rights should be regulated by the Working Environment Act. Unfortunately, that is not the majority. I shall therefore refer to the motion put forward by the Labour Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e136	Eirin Faldet has taken up the suggestion to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e139	I agree with the rapporteur that this is a happy day for consumers, but it is also a happy day for the Right. Finally, the law on opening hours must be repealed! Let me start by going back a little bit in time, to the mid 1980s. At the time, the Right Consumer Minister, Astrid Gjertsen, spoke the consumer's case. The grate made everyday life easier for people. Before her we had the law of closure. We talked about the time clip, and the shops that closed at the time. 17, often right in front of the nose of desperate families that were not able to trade. With Gjertsen we went from the law of closure to the law of opening hours. Today this may seem like a small step, but at the time, 20 years ago, it was a big and serious step. The important thing for the Right has always been to make things easier for people in everyday life. We're talking about consumers' business – now that. By the way, it's with the Workers' Party. The party's regulators probably created this year's new word in Norwegian in 1997 – Brustad-bua. I have to admit that from time to time I have had sympathy with the former councillor Brustad, who has always had this bow hanging by his name – not least if it is the way she has said later, that she was actually against the whole bow, but was pressured by certain parts of the trade movement and her own party to propose it. At the top of it all she was then, at her own discretion, left to herself when it went up for the others how unpopular the Brustad-bua was. She had to stand alone and defend it. Former State Councils from the Workers' Party were in line last year to distance from Brustad-bua. But it was in 2002, after the former state councils had had the opportunity to do something about the matter while they themselves were in government. That's the way it is. They do nothing in government themselves, but promote a number of suggestions after they have left. So the government is proposing to repeal the law on opening hours. So the stores can figure out for themselves when they want to keep it open. It makes everyday life easier for people, and they get both literal and figurative freedom of action! I'm sure some people have noticed – as the rapporteur said – that there is a difference in the right vote for today, and the right has the program fixed and entered for earlier. That's absolutely right. On the right, it has been programmed that free opening hours should also apply on Sundays, so that consumers can decide for themselves whether to act on Sundays or not. But they do, of course, today. The difference is strictly taken only the size of the store, the range of goods and the price of the goods. However, the right does not vote to open free opening hours on Sundays. Let me still say that this is a compromise I and Right can live well with. After all, we are getting a step away from the fact that, as politicians, we have to decide when people are to act and when they are not to act, and that is good. But let me add that of course I have great respect for those who have the position that Sunday should be a different day. I would like to associate a few words with the comments of the other parties. As far as the Advance Party is concerned, I understand that they want free opening hours on all days. But I don't think the party for most people has let people feel especially deeply when they go in for free beer sales all day. The progress party is of course entitled to the fact that beer is a legal product, but I believe they are fundamentally wrong if they believe that beer can be treated in the same way as bread and milk. In the case of the Workers' Party, it seems as if they are almost desperate to get rid of the Brustad-bu stamp, without quite being able to do it. It might be tempting to ask: if everyone in the Workers' Party is now against Brustad-bua, why didn't they do something about it in the Stoltenberg government? Now, they're going to be involved in reviewing the land limitations. It's, pleasantly enough, just fit little concretely to avoid taking a concrete stand for what you want. As regards the Workers' Party's comments on amending the Working Environment Act in order to provide better protection for workers in the commercial industry, the Workers' Party has not been very concerned about this before, despite the fact that they created Brustad-bua themselves. I can see that the Workers' Party enjoys a good job protection for everyone in the commercial industry – we all do. Now it is the case that the Work Environment Act provides protection for all employees, and the Government is also working on a review of the law. In addition, it must be a great deal for the social partners to negotiate collective bargaining agreements which take into account both pay issues and other aspects of which the Workers' Party is concerned. I'm not going to spend the same amount of time on SV. But if it had been up to them, the shops would probably still have closed at noon. 17. However, let me refer to the SV’s new election manifesto for 2003. Here's what it says: ‘Central authorities are increasingly deciding on matters that should be decided by people locally. SV knows that wisdom is evenly distributed around the country and will therefore give people direct influence over their own lives.’ And what better way to give people direct influence over their own lives than to let them decide when to act? It is also tempting to remember that Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken, SV's member of the Finance Committee, the other day suggested that the stores had to close an hour earlier so that people acted less, so the interest would go down! There is a great difference between life and learning in SV when they obviously have so little understanding of the challenges common people have in everyday life. Let me also remind you that it is hardly SV's profit that Norwegian families can save millions of money on the fall in interest rates. Finally, the right is satisfied that the opening time law has now been repealed. It gives more power to consumers, and it will make people's everyday lives easier.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e170	The matter we are now dealing with is significant for the time we are in. The proposal that exists is yet another step in the development of some ‘natural’ chain. In this perspective, the development of society is seen as natural – it goes in one direction, and we politicians have no real choice. At best, we can only postpone a process that will in any case happen and that for some actors is highly desirable. This is a view we in SV do not share. We believe that the majority of the Committee on this matter makes political choices for the future, where they choose to leave even more power over the development of society to market forces. Significantly, in this context, the individual of us is only viewed and defined as a consumer, according to the needs we have as consumers. The representative, Sjøli, spoke of SV leaving most people to decide, and it was important that most people were allowed to decide when they wanted to act. For me, it might be more important that most people have more influence when it's fit to work. There is little emphasis in the setting on us as whole people, where the ‘consumer’ in us is only one part. We're not just consumers, we're fathers, we're mothers, we're children, we're workers, we're students, we're friends, we're social creatures – we're people. It is also said clearly about this: our needs as consumers should be guided by supply and demand. Yes, it is said that ‘supply and demand are better suited than the law to regulate opening hours’. This, of course, is no truth, but a claim and a political point of view. This is a part of and a result of a massive neoliberal offensive – such as neither new nor surprising. That the Right Party and the Advance Party have such an understanding is not fit to surprise anyone. The fact that the Christian People's Party is also flat and on the move in this context is more surprising. But we're also getting used to this. It may seem that the principles of the Christian People's Party have ended up in the offer shelf at Rema 1000. It is more surprising that the Workers' Party does not find the time to put its foot down. For a party that says that it is on the workers' side, it must, in my opinion, be completely impossible to endorse changes which so fundamentally undermine the interests of the workers. The consultations on the proposal are also clear on the part of the trade union movement. That the Workers' Party doesn't lend an ear that way, one just has to wonder. As they say: ‘The Government proposes to remove the Opening Time Act. This may be joined by the Working Party.» In between we hear about the next big shots, there are ideas about new alliances – about a new course. This case could be well suited to show the voters and workers that there are ideas about a different course. Too bad this possibility won't be used. The wonder of the proposal that exists is that it does not come as a result of strong desires either from consumers or actors but as a result of a political desire for even more market, less governance and less political interference. The main reason for our opposition to the proposed changes is the major negative impact this will have on social and family life. In Norway, 30 billion kroner plus/minus are spent annually by commercial operators in advertising and marketing to get us to consume as much as possible, to influence our choices. The commercial pressure on us just as consumers are huge – not least on children and young people. Of course, it is not accidental that a four-year-old on average controls approx. 1000 words, and 300 of these words are names of brands. It is important that there is awareness of the commercial pressure we are subjected to and that there are counter-strategies and resistance to the idea of consumption as the most important element in having a meaningful and happy life. In society, we have some other basic goals, such as: equality, health, environment, democracy and participation. Few of us believe that such objectives do not depend on regulatory regulation – the market, or supply and demand, are simply not suitable for caring for such interests and needs. So what are the consequences of the proposed changes to the law? Well, there will be night work for more than today. More night work means more stress and more health problems. Night work also means poorer opportunities for caring and participation in other social activities. With more workers working in the evening and night hours, there will be even fewer opportunities to engage in the common arenas as a prerequisite for living democracy. And then we're told that this is probably not going to have such a big impact, that there won't be as many people who want to take advantage of these possibilities. But if there are no consequences, if there is no one who will take advantage of these possibilities, why is it so important to implement these changes? Trade in goods is the business area for which the proposed changes have the greatest impact. About 3⁄4 of the workers in the trade in goods are women. We know that 22 pst. of the children are children with lone parents, most women. A great many of these women work in the retail trade, and they will easily have problems keeping the job. And what about cleaners, with an already uncomfortable working time? Now it'll be even worse. What about those who depend on kindergarten and school leave? Such offers are bad in the evening and at night. That means we're going to get the exact same thing we have at gas stations, in Brustad, at 7 Students and elsewhere: there are students and other lonely people who have the jobs. Those who need such jobs and who have the jobs in the goods trade today will be able to easily be pushed out of the labour market. Developments can simply lead to the destruction of trade in goods as a workplace for adult women with care responsibilities. Extended opening hours could also mean more employees. It will in turn mean increased expenditure, and again for consumers more expensive goods. Public investigation is ongoing with the aim of creating a new labour law. The aim of such a law must be to continue and strengthen the protection of workers in the work environment law. We therefore believe that major changes in the rights of workers in one or more industries should not be made before a review of new labour law. On this basis, we are going in SV to cancel the so-called opening time law. We also want to maintain the protection of the working environment law that workers currently enjoy against working beyond normal working hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e207	When the opening time law is adopted today and the regulation of trading activities on Sundays and public holidays is transferred to the public holiday law, this is a direct follow-up to the Sem declaration. After the amendment of the law, the business itself shall be able to determine when it will be open on weekdays. At the same time, it is established that Sunday is and will remain a different day of limited trading. The Christian People's Party will strongly stress the importance of protecting the general peace on Sundays and other holidays. That at least one day a week can be reserved recreation and spiritual connection, we still think there is a broad uprising about in the Norwegian people. To enable this to happen, one of the measures is to set certain limits on the commercial activity of these days — not to prohibit it altogether, but to reduce it to the minimum necessary to enable people to obtain the most necessary groceries. A repeal of the law on opening hours in everyday life means that we leave to businesses to adapt the opening hours themselves to the needs of users, and leave this crucial for when to be open. By introducing these changes, the needs of users are put at the centre. We should not ignore the fact that, after all, supply and demand are better than the law to regulate the opening hours of everyday life. And by passing on the exceptions we have today for sale on holidays, a secure consumer will be available. When we thus liquidate the regulations on weekdays and at the same time keep them on public holidays, we think both will be for the benefit of the users. Yes, lifting the restrictions on everyday life could in itself also help to reduce the need to act on public holidays. If we could help with such an arrangement to ease the pressure on the weekends, which has been an important point for the Christian People's Party, it will be of the good. Of course, time will show whether this will keep going. The government has therefore not wanted to impose restrictions on everyday life. What will now regulate the opening hours will be the market, the employees and the limitations contained in the Labour Environment Act. The Christian People's Party therefore also agrees that it is important to take into account the employees of the commercial industry in terms of safe and good working conditions. Today, in our opinion, this is adequately addressed in the already existing work environment regulations. Now it remains to be seen whether the change in the law will lead to a large number of open shops in everyday life in Norway. Rather, we believe there is reason to believe that the business will limit itself because the need for open-ended shops is not so great when it comes to the deal. To some extent, it is likely to lead to urban and major agglomerations, but even there is no reason to believe that this will be particularly large than it already has through the current arrangements. Some businesses may also try to make ‘daily open’ their special brand, but we hardly think there is any reason to fear too much change in the industry. The Christian People's Party, based on its human view of this matter, has wanted to highlight the importance of the Holy Day. We think it's good for everyone and thus the whole society that the wheels occasionally stop up. In a stressful time like ours, the need for silence, reflection and the possibilities to recover are being suppressed. That's why we see it as absolutely necessary to ensure the protection of this one day of the week in our law – a different day that makes it easier to take off, lower your shoulders and do something completely different. It is no surprise, but we again note that the Progress Party does not share such a view. The progress party does not want any restrictions and would like to imagine full trading including beer sales every seven days. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Advance Party does not receive any support for its proposal on 24-hour beer sales in the shops and also not 24-hour shops during the weekends. We are convinced that this is about protecting important values. The Christian People's Party wants to ensure such protection through the law and is pleased that the restrictions contained in the alcohol law continue to apply. We think it is important to organise non-alcoholic zones and prevent the damage that can follow. And we think it's important – yes, more important than ever – to protect about the holiday by putting off a day that's different for all of us. This is for the good of man and society.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e233	The Government’s proposal to repeal the Opening Time Act is justified by the need to adapt the opening hours to the needs of users. The government believes that supply and demand are better suited than the law to regulate opening hours. I would like to make it clear that I am personally happy that my local store is open until noon. 21st Last@item: inlistbox However, I do not see the need for further liberalisation of opening hours, and the Central Party will vote against repealing this law. The centre party can't see that someone has been very excited about such a change. We all know that consumers are divided on this issue, and when the business actors are also so divided and in their hearing opinions point to a number of negative consequences, and the employee organisations are so unambiguously opposed, yes, then the choice was simple for the Central Party. We have the impression that today's regulations are working properly, that consumers are largely satisfied and have complied with the applicable legislation. A repeal of the law will have a negative impact on the working environment of workers. Extensive use of evening and night work exposes employees to health and safety risks. In addition, it will adversely affect the family life of workers and the social life of individual communities. There are many examples of communities with a lot of shift and night work having difficulty maintaining activity in, for example: team and association work. The centre lot also finds reason to highlight the noise problems that this may cause at night where outlets are located in or adjacent to residential areas. There is not always any agreement between what benefits market mechanisms and what benefits individuals and society as a whole. The volume of trade is unlikely to increase as a result of the change, but there will be a pressure towards longer opening hours. Such a combination would result in higher costs for the shops without equivalent performance. In this case, the additional costs will be charged to customers in the form of higher prices and/or, in the worst case, lead to the need for the store to shut down due to a lack of earnings. We all know which stores are the most vulnerable. The centre party has noticed that our objections to a square meter regulation today are supported by several hearing bodies. Such regulation distorts competition between grocery stores and service stations that produce almost the same range of goods. I cannot fail to comment on the position of the Christian People's Party in this matter. The leader of the party has stated on several occasions: we must enable families to be families and take care of each other. The party also claims that the family policy debate has recently been too focused on money. The centre party shares these views. The problem is that the Christian People's Party on a case-by-case basis contributes to decisions that go in the opposite direction. There is simply no match between word and action. It was probably not by chance that the representative Lånken just now in his post focused most on and talked most about the holiday legislation and less about the repeal of the opening time law. I would also like to dwell a little at the Labour Party's position on this matter. They support the Government and will repeal the Act of Opening. But at the same time they want to support the views of employees. It is not possible in this case. The reality is that the party has made a choice in support of the Government's argument that supply and demand are more appropriate than the law to regulate the opening hours. I ask that the vote be put to the vote so that we can vote against the repeal of the opening time law, but in turn contribute to saving the stumps by supporting the necessary amendment of the law on holidays and holiday peace.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e252	The issue of regulation of opening hours concerns both families and consumers, employees in the trade in goods and traders. Furthermore, important value issues are related to Sunday peace and Sunday as a different day. The challenge is to find a fair and appropriate balance between different considerations. The government wants a more open society adapted to the needs of users and consumers. At the same time, the aim is to simplify the regulatory framework and to make it more transparent and to eliminate unnecessary detailed regulation. The government believes that supply and demand are better suited than the law to regulate the opening time of trade in goods on weekdays. Today's consumers have different needs, and many want access to a range of goods and services other than what we have traditionally seen as ordinary working hours. The lifting of the opening time law will allow for more flexible adaptations and the need for exemptions will be reduced. This will lead to resource savings. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the Government's proposal to repeal the Opening Time Act. I have also noticed that the majority of the Committee has stressed the hearing opinion of the Consumer Council. In the interests of consumers, the Council wants less central governance and stronger competition in the retail trade, and therefore agrees with the Government’s legislative proposals. The legislative proposal also implies that the general peace on Sundays and other public holidays is still protected. In the view of the Government, it is therefore necessary to set limits on commercial activity on Sundays and other public holidays. The need to act on those days should also be significantly reduced when the restrictions on working days are now lifted, which the representative Lånke was also involved in. The same considerations as for setting limits for keeping outlets open on public holidays also apply to public holidays on 1 and 17 May. In the view of the Government, today’s regulation of trade on Sundays and other public holidays implies a fair balance between the consideration of general weekend peace and the consideration that consumers should have a satisfactory offer of the necessary goods. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees that permanent outlets should, as a general rule, remain closed on such days and that the exceptions to the general rule that we currently have for sale on public holidays are maintained. By still allowing sales, for example: from refuelling stations, kiosks and smaller daily food sales on these days will ensure that consumers always have access to the most necessary goods. The lifting of the opening time law in order to have free opening hours on weekdays and days before Sundays and public holidays suggests that one cannot maintain rules in other legislation that would make the legislative changes highly illusory. As people's user habits and desires differ, so are their attitudes and desires regarding working time. Some groups, for example: are young people, may be interested in working at times other than those usual. At the same time, I see that irregular and irregular working hours for many are perceived as a burden, and that they may conflict with both family life and other activities. I believe that working time issues, both in the trade in goods and in other service industries, should be resolved in a different way from by imposing a deadline for the outlets. This applies, for example: the legal requirements for the interests of workers in terms of health, the environment and safety at work, the length of working time, breaks and leisure time, overtime and additional work. The Government, as the majority point out, will follow the developments in the wake of the repeal of the Opening Time Act. Although the prohibition of night work is lifted for the purposes of trade in goods, employees will continue to be protected by other provisions of the Working Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e272	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e275	We are discussing here a law that affects the framework conditions for business. It's important that we have a clean relationship with business and that we have clear lines. And there are probably some traders who want to use this law to a greater or lesser extent and who need to plan and change some of their routines. Therefore, I would like to refer to a question I have received from business: When can you expect this law to come into force? In the setting, it is stated that the law will come into force from the time the King decides, but there is some uncertainty as to when one can expect this from the Government and the King. Could the Council of State say anything about this? I've heard the date April 1st. We're going to hope it's not a April joke! Could we get a response on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e282	I can't say the exact date, but there's not so much work left by the department, so we're going to do this as quickly as possible. However, I do not dare to promise an exact date – but as quickly as we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e287	I understood that the Council of State regards the proposals that exist, as good consumer policy, but I would like to ask the Council of State Davøy if it is good family policy. What is there in the repeal of the opening time law that is positive for family policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e292	This is good consumer policy, also according to the Consumer Council. After all, families are also consumers in this society. I think maybe some of the speakers here today black paint a lot of it that we now want a simplification and a termination of the opening time law. As I see it, I don't think it's going to bring about the big changes. We can think of ourselves and our own family and what our daily shopping pattern is going to look like after the opening time law is changed. I think maybe we'll maintain the same pattern that we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e299	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e304	It's one of Storting's representatives who tend to make me become a little adrenalinth, and it's the Christian People's Party representative Lånke when he talks about the Progress Party's view on holidays and in some other areas. I just want to point out that we in the Progress Party have great respect for our holidays. We have great respect for the holiday peace and Christian holidays, but you can also have that respect even if you buy a bread, a deodorant and a box of beer on such a day. It has nothing to do with religion and lack of respect for religion. To the representative Fallet who had a little visit to the Advance Party and asked if we had asked the people if beer sales should follow the opening hours. I cannot claim that I have made any polls, but I need to do nothing but visit a grocery store between hours. 20 and 21 in the evening. Then you hear a lot of comments about what you think about these tensions, and that's something I can't refer to from the Great Council because they're strong points of view and strong words. Otherwise, I can tell you that I come from a municipality where you have been tried for a short period of time to have a beer sale until noon. 23:00. It was before Stortinget put an end to that project. There was no ditching of it. There were no major problems, and there were not large youth groups that traded mass until late in the evening. It was mainly people who came home late from work. Finally, I would like to refer to the Workers' Party what the representative Bekkemel Orheim said to the VG on 18 July last summer: ‘It becomes very strange that there are some goods that consumers should not have access to. Beer is a legal commodity. The time when beer can be stopped is over. We wonder if we believe that a restrictive alcohol policy solves the youth’s drug problem. Experience shows that in places where beer supply has been low, it has been all the easier to obtain heavier substances’. It was as late as six months ago in our biggest newspaper.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e320	It wasn't the Fall that said it. [[Sounding speaking in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e329	I can wait until you're done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e334	The President is asking for peace in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e337	I was in the Labour Party in my main post, and I could well imagine getting an explanation from the representative who fell on the Labour Party's vote on this matter. They say they support the proposal to remove the opening time law. If it is to have any function, it is a prerequisite for the removal of the protection currently provided by the Working Environment Act. So the Workers' Party has come up with some lines for which they know there is no majority. Ole Brumm – yes, thank you both. It is not possible to go in to remove the opening time law and at the same time to go in to maintain the work environment law, as the Workers' Party is doing today. Is it possible to get a logical explanation of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e343	I was directly encouraged to make a logical explanation. So logical an explanation that Lund Bergo will accept it, I don't think I am able to give, but I can say that our concern in that matter is the workers and the consumers. We ask that Stortinget consider how we should handle this so that it becomes safe for those who work. It's the most important thing. It must be possible to combine this with the possibility for consumers to buy bread. I don't care about beer, because that's not the question. Our concern in this matter is the rights of employees, and here we have promoted a proposal that will be transmitted to the Stortinget. That's the explanation I can give so far. So I'm sorry that there was a bit of a cry from the hall, but I'm a little annoyed, because now I've had so many earflakes because of this law. The background for this is, of course, that we are added to something that we have not said. I think that's a little bit on the edge.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e350	The representative Knudsen had a visit to me in his last post and characterized it so that I had made his adrenaline boil. If I had done that, I guess there's a lot of evidence that I've hit a little sore point. I find that the representative Knudsen in his statement is trying to minimize his own proposals and his own views on this matter. It is not that this is about being able to open to buy a beer box and a soap piece. About this is what the representative expressed it. Here we talk about full opening and free flow. That is what the Advance Party will open up throughout the week to full trading, all supermarkets and all days, weekdays as holidays. This is not least serious in terms of alcohol consumption in society. I'm not going to start a new alcohol debate, but I can't help but remember that, after all, it's perhaps the biggest social medicine problem we're facing. One thing is beer. Now we've also got the raisin shower to be likened to beer. We already see an enormous consumption of these goods within the usual opening time. We can easily imagine what it will be like if this too becomes fully available on holidays and in the holidays.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e357	Magnar Lund Bergo has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e360	Yes, then, I understood what was being said. If I'm happy, we can go to the chamber. Sometimes we have to choose. In this case, it is quite clear that the Workers' Party is sacrificing workers' protection in the Working Environment Act to free movement, in order to satisfy the Liberals' desire to remove the Opening Time Act. It's not possible here to get both of them. That the Workers' Party will change the Opening Time Act is one thing. The fact that they have not made sure that workers are protected in advance is completely incomprehensible to me – a party called the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e367	Ulf Erik Knudsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e370	Honored President! I thought the case rapporteur went under the exception in Stortingen's regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e375	That's right – Ulf Erik Knudsen gets the word for an post of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e378	Thank you! First, the representative fell. I got hurt by an incubation to hang something on the Fall that was supposed to be hanging on the representative – and the committee leader – Sjøli. I am very sorry and apologise for that. I must also say that the Workers' Party is doing enough wrong in this matter, if I were not to hang them out for something they actually do not. But that doesn't change the fact that you have turned the other way around this summer when it comes to things like this. This is the beer sale. So the criticism of the Workers' Party is firm, but it's true that she has not actually said what I put her out to say. In the case of the Christian People's Party, I will not extend the debate very much. But I would encourage Loans to rule away from my religious convictions, and I shall rule away from his religious convictions. I don't think any place can come and say that selling deodorants or beer a Sunday afternoon has anything to do with religious conviction. In the case of intoxication, I find it difficult to see what this is doing in this debate. Whether an alcohol product tastes one or the other, whether it is red or blue or brown, is completely irrelevant when we discuss opening hours in the retail trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e389	Eirin Faldet has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e392	For the sake of order, I want to tell the representative Lund Bergo that it was actually not the Workers' Party that went into Ole Brumm in Norwegian politics. That's what Erik Solheim from SV did.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e397	I must be allowed to point out the interesting thing in this debate. As I pointed out in my main post, it is to note that the Christian People's Party primarily wants to talk about the sacred law and less about the opening time law in this matter. They were also given the opportunity to do so in connection with the line change. The Christian People's Party comforts itself that the arrangement will probably be little used. Finally, they allow themselves to complain that we have had a rush at the shops, which they themselves have actually agreed to open up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e403	Even if I represent the Committee on Transport, I will not talk about the combination of alcohol and running – by the way, I will not. But I'll say something about this claim of turning around. We shall have something to do in this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to correct each other for turning over some cucumber days in July and August when some individual representatives are out speaking, perhaps early in a process. In the Labour Party, we have had a serious discussion about this. We've turned something around. We've opened something more, and we think it's possible and let ourselves be combined with proper treatment of them added. There are actually many of the added ones who understand that. In fact, there are quite a few people working around the clock in this country. Now there will also be some places in the store. But it's like, when we discuss until we're settled, that's what we stand for, and we don't commit ourselves to whether individual representatives have spoken for or against a matter very early in the process. I actually don't think we're alone in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e408	Ola T. Loan has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e411	What made me ask for the floor for a brief comment was the representative Ola T. Heggem from the Central Party, who pointed out that the Christian People's Party spent more time in the debate talking about the Holiday Act than about the Opening Time Act. It might be true when it comes to measured time, that we've used more of it for that particular purpose. It is because we are very busy just to screen the Sundays and holidays as special days for recreation and to get back in. But that doesn't necessarily mean that we're neither ashamed nor having any problems going in to repeal the opening time law. We actually have a little bit of a pragmatic approach to it. It's not least that I think this will limit itself. We could have lived with the opening time law we have had, in and on our own, but it is now time to reach an agreement in the Sem-Declaration that we should do this. It has not offered the major problems of principle. What's been important to us is to watch the Sundays and holidays. That's absolutely correct. So I think the rest will limit itself. In this case, the representative also knows well that it is not a Christian People's Party that introduced it. There are quite other reasons why it has come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e418	It was the post of Agent Ausdal Starrfeld who made me jump a little. It was said that no particular emphasis should be placed on what comes from cucumbers in June, and politicians cannot be held responsible for it. First of all, in this context, there was no mention of any politician. It was former state councils among those who were out there and were very bombastic of what the Workers' Party thought – Karita Bekkemelm Orheim, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and Sylvia Brustad all took the order for free slips of both opening hours and beer sales. My question to the representative of Ausdal Starrfelt must then be: is it now that from the Stortinget in June and until you get back together in October you can't trust any of what the Workers' Party's people say in the newspapers? Is it just that during the summer heat and cucumber time they speak in huts and torments, without any responsibility or reality behind what is available?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e427	If I got hurt to say that it was the Christian People's Party that introduced the rush shower, it is, as the representative Lånke points out, wrong. But it is true that the Christian People's Party was involved and contributed to its entry into Norwegian shops. I also have a great deal of understanding that both individuals and parties change meaning once in a while. It can even be healthy. But I'm asking for an understanding that sometimes it might be a little bit interesting to point it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e434	I was just trying to point out that it's actually like this, at least in our party, that when a case is put forward in a period that we're not collecting, we don't draw any final conclusions until we're collected. Obviously, that means a lot what the central people say, but we have a process where all the voices count the same thing. And in this context, we found that it makes sense to keep up the delimitation in the turnover of alcohol, for alcohol policy reasons. So there may be shades in the view of this, but basically the conclusions are also spoken by individuals. And I don't think the Progress Party is that party where there's fewer statements that are hard to meet in the door at a later time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e441	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 377]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e457	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 15 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the Coastal Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e466	The Children’s Act shall have one general principle – the consideration of the child’s best interests. The amendments to the law to be adopted by Odelstinget today must also be used as a starting point. For the vast majority of children, the family, mother and father, are the best and most important people to grow up with. It's in the family children should have support and security. It's in the family children should have their good networks. However, problems arise when these networks fail. Then there is no support and safety for the children. Then there is uncertainty and uncertainty. Then it's that someone has to be there for the kids. We must be careful not to take so much into account the parents, the family and the biological principle that it overshadows what is meant by child protection – the best of the child. It is important to stress that we need to talk about the child's right and not about the child's right. After the state has assumed responsibility for the specialist health service, it is natural that it is now proposed that county child and family protection should also be transferred to state level. The aim of the whole reorganization is to give children and young people an equivalent offer, regardless of where they come from. In the Workers' Party, we do not want to attack or criticise the county councils, which until today have been responsible for important aspects of child protection. It is important to ensure that child protection at all levels has access to both the competences and personnel that can take appropriate action in relation to the individual child. For the Workers' Party, it is important that the new organisation ensures close and good cooperation between the levels of administration – between the first and second lines of service. The working party is concerned that the regional breakdown cannot be equal to the five health regions as they are currently organised. There is a need for a certain degree of flexibility both in terms of the regional breakdown itself and in terms of the possibility of establishing local contact points in the regions. For example, a region for the whole of Northern Norway will be too large to care for and meet the best of the child. We therefore believe that the Government has to reconsider this. It's nice for a whole committee to say this. The Proposition and the Storing Communication both take too little account of how the organisation is intended by the Government, how to avoid centralisation that goes beyond the provision of children, and the relationship between administrative and professional units. It is regrettable that the committee only gets an explanation from the Council of State on how the government has actually planned the new organisation after working on the big business and the proposition for a long time. However, on the part of the Labour Party, we would say that if what the Government and the Council of State really believe is neither in the proposition nor in the big message, but what has been obtained as an additional explanation for the Committee, we are not dissatisfied at all. It's not so bad. The Labour Party considers it important that within each administrative region there are a number of institutions and professional units which constitute a wide range of instruments of action and which ensure good and close cooperation between the actions undertaken by the municipalities and the actions for which it is responsible. The professional environments of competence currently in the counties still need to be located there and further decentralised, although these are now to be administered by the regional government offices. The Labour Party, like the Council of State, is committed to ensuring the political anchoring of child protection in order to ensure that child care is given equal attention by politicians and other issues. These matters should receive even greater attention! After all, we're talking about some of the weakest and some of those who need the most help in our society, and they're actually tomorrow's adults. For this reason, the Labour Party wants the regional offices to be politically anchored and to be composed of a council of representatives appointed by each state and interdisciplinary representatives, in order to strengthen the political base of regional offices. Children's growing-up conditions concern all of us. I would therefore like to point out the need for closer cooperation between the police, child protection and other public services. It is gratifying to record that an overall committee agrees on this. The obligation of professional secrecy must not prevent open cooperation when this is in the best interests of the child. Therefore, it is so important that the Government requests the municipalities to establish a cooperation body between different public bodies, where the best of the child is to stand in the high seat. The obligation of professional secrecy cannot prevent this. It may not be the case that different public bodies, each of which is intended to assist the child individually, sit on each other's side without having sufficient good and close cooperation, and without knowing each other's work areas. Too often we see that professional secrecy leads to just this. It shouldn't be like that. It's not for the benefit of the children. The most important aspect of child protection must be the rights of the child, not the rights of parents when they do not correspond. Children should not experience staying at home where they obviously shouldn't be. With that in mind, the Labour Party asks the Government to submit to the Storting a review of the use of coercion in child protection. The legislative changes necessary to prevent children from staying in their homes in which they suffer congestion must be submitted to the Stortinget. I'm glad everyone agrees. The legal certainty of children is essential. This must be ensured in the best possible way. That is why we are committed to strengthening the supervisory function of child protection. In the view of the Workers' Party, it is most natural that the county has this task, and the Workers' Party believes it is important that the county council is given an instruction authority. It is also a proposal that has been sent to the Government for further consideration, and I hope we get a good answer to that, because it is often so that when local government finances prevent children from getting the offer they should have, this is not for the child's good either. The Workers' Party also believes that a State authorisation system should be established for child protection institutions, both public and private. This approval must be organised together with the supervisory function of the county council in such a way as to ensure its stability. For the Workers' Party, it is important that budgets and local priorities are not crucial for the assessment of, and, where appropriate, the measures taken by, the protection of children. It is therefore necessary for the State to pay the costs of the municipalities to experts and lawyers in the cases before the counties. The State acquisition of county child protection shall include and ensure an equivalent provision of child protection services for the benefit of the children. It has been the most important thing for the Workers' Party in its work on this matter. We believe that the proposals we are in favour of here will lead to that. However, there is not enough reorganization alone. It is the State that has the overall responsibility for child protection, while the municipalities are the most important player. Whether we succeed in child protection is primarily a resource issue – a question of our willingness and ability to prioritise both personnel and the economy in this important field. It's finally a question of whether we want to put the municipalities in financial condition to do the job we're actually asking them to do. I refer to the proposals to which the Labour Party is the proposer or the co-rapporteur. So I'll draw proposal no. 3, when this proposal was thoroughly debated in the context of the examination of St.meld. No 40 and sent to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e519	Eirin Fallet has taken up the suggestions she herself referred to. The President has noted the drawn-up proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e524	It is an important reform that we are going to adopt today. There's a new child protection that's now in the cast. I am very pleased with the broad consensus and the support of the Government's proposal that the State should assume responsibility for the county's responsibilities in the field of child protection and family protection from next year. Such organisation will help to improve conditions in several areas: There will be much better technical assistance to municipalities to ensure that no children are deprived of the public and that fewer children are in need of long-term institutional space. There will be better coordination of services and better quality assurance of measures.There will be a better and more differentiated provision of institutional space and specialist services for the children who need it.It will make it easier to ensure an overall and qualitatively good offer to all those who need such assistance wherever they live in the country. On the road to better child protection, it is important to take care of what is good and what works well today, while at the same time using new methods to develop child protection to become even better. Unfortunately, despite skilled professionals and positive developments in child protection in recent years, a comprehensive review has shown that child protection is not the central supporter of vulnerable children and young people and their families as it should be. This may be related, for example: that the challenges of child protection are greater than ever, and that the problems are more complex. In addition, inappropriate structures prevent good solutions and good interdisciplinary cooperation with other ancillary services. The objective of the Right and the Government for the protection of children in the years to come is, first of all, to increase efforts and improve the quality of early prevention assistance for children and families. Helping measures are often inserted too late to help adequately. It's important to see the whole family situation. It is therefore gratifying that professionals are increasingly seeing the importance of stimulating the overall situation of the family and building up under the family's own resources, and the use of relief measures for families with special needs. However, there is a need for a further change of attitude and for the introduction of new methods both in the field of child protection and in the support services with which child protection naturally cooperates. The goal must be for families to function better and for care failure to be reduced. Child protection must also become more visible in the work of vulnerable children and young people in municipalities. Secondly, child protection must become the central player in the work of vulnerable children and young people. Today, no body has the primary responsibility to coordinate cooperation and interaction between services so that proper action is taken when necessary. I am therefore pleased that there is a majority in favour of child protection having this task. Thirdly, it is important to strengthen the legitimacy of child protection. Child protection, as both the Council of State and the representative Rafiq were involved in the debate in Stortinget earlier today, will never be a popular service. However, child protection needs to be respected for the tasks assigned to it, so that child protection can thus achieve greater legitimacy among users, among partners and in society and the general public. In order to achieve this, it is important that child protection is clear and visible in its values, objectives and role, and not least that it is open to the principles on which decisions and actions are based. Child protection employees must have security in relation to their role as helper and supervisor. Child protection which has the necessary competence in preventive family work will also retain its legitimacy when coercive action is necessary. Fourthly, there is a need for a greater political awareness, which many people have had, and a greater commitment to child protection. Children's and young people's growing-up conditions should involve everyone, both politicians and people most. The new organisation of child protection requires the establishment of local and professional resource units to assist municipalities in difficult child protection cases, such as: in relation to the placement of children away from home. The state activities in the field of child protection will be politically driven by growth and government. The proposed regions will be ordinary administrative bodies subject to state instruction. It is not natural for the right to appoint a nationally elected council in relation to a governmental administrative body under the direction of the Ministry. The county will no longer have any tasks in this area. It is the municipalities that will be ordered by the measures and services existing in the region. And it is the municipalities that, through their administrative and political systems, will be the main influencing factor in the development of actions and services, and that will therefore be the key partners of cooperation for the state regions at both administrative and political level. The regions will have a wide-ranging professional competence and meet the need for multidisciplinary skills. In addition, regions will have extensive cooperation with other services and different disciplines, such as: health care enterprises in the case of paediatric and adolescent psychiatry and drug services. It is therefore not appropriate, in my view, to set up any new political bodies linked to the regional offices, since these, as I was concerned with, are ordinary administrative bodies. The professional competence currently in the county municipality will remain there, but will be administered by the regional offices. In our view, these professional environments should be further decentralised to reduce the distance between municipalities and other line services than today. In the case of Oslo Municipality, they already have responsibility for both the first and second line services in the field of child protection and youth protection. The objective of integrating child protection services has already been achieved. And I'm glad that the government has a majority in favour of the Municipality of Oslo continuing to be responsible. The government also receives broad support to open up trials where some large municipalities or small municipalities can take care of their tasks through inter-municipal cooperation. A separate authorisation system will also be established for private child protection institutions. This has been proposed by the Government in the proposition, it is not, as the representative Fallen from the Workers' Party put it as, as, primarily, a proposal from the Workers' Party. Non-approval shall mean that the institutions cannot be used for children to be placed outside the home on grounds of the Child Protection Act. We are facing a very exciting and challenging time in child protection. When the state takes over county child protection and family protection, we can develop and ensure quality across the country. Municipal Child Protection shall continue to be the main actor and shall be given new tasks and competences. Child protection is now in the cast, and we're really looking forward to a new child protection system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e570	Ot. pp. No 9 is about the acquisition by the State of county protection and the acquisition by the state of the family protection offices. In other words, the piecewise winding-up of the county municipality is continued, as we have seen in the past. The progress party is not bored for that reason – just that it has been said. But that's not the most important thing today. The most important thing is that, by transferring county child protection and family protection to the state, we will also get a similar offer to everyone, and not like now, where it depends on the state in which one lives, whether the aid one receives, comes in one week or six months. The different municipalities have different priorities, and that is to a large extent OK, but not in the case of children and young people. They must be guaranteed the right to predictable and equal treatment, whether they live in Alta or in Lillesand. To take family protection first. I believe that with a state acquisition of this, families who have problems will not wait six months for advice and help. When you are in a family situation where it may seem difficult to look the way out, you need advice and guidance when the need is there. Long waits can often intensify problems and end with fractures. Yes, you can even get so frustrated that you resort to violence. This is not desirable. Therefore, the Advancement Party hopes that there will now be a real offer for all those in need of family advice. After all, we want to divide our society into families, and our families stick together. That in today's society, external help is good, that's good. Now that the state is to take over the operation of the family protection offices, the Progress Party interprets that family protection should be taken even more seriously if possible than has been done in the past. And that's good. Perhaps, through this grip, we can actually reverse the negative trends in marriage statistics in this country. So to the state takeover of county child protection. I could talk about this for a long time and a lot, but it's getting late in the evening so I'll try to limit myself. But it's a fact that what kind of offer one gets of county child protection today depends on in which state one lives. Some states are difficult to use private child protection institutions, while others use the offer they find best, regardless of whether it is private or public. When we also know that approx. 80 pst. by the child protection institutions are private, this says something about what offers you receive, and what offers you do not receive. Children’s protection needs a safe and good environment around them, especially for those young people who have either been on the road or who have such serious behavioural problems that they are not fit to live in foster homes. Just then, it is possible to have a government body that knows the competence of the different institutions and then can choose the right institution for each young person, and not as today, where the county chooses the institution where there is free space, whether it is the most suitable or not. This is good. Very good, but not good enough, not for the Progress Party. We want to ensure that, in order to ensure the quality of the work done by the State body, there is a child-restraint system. And now I'm going to elaborate a little bit on how the Progress Party thinks this child protection agency is going to work. It shall be a completely independent supervisory body to monitor the functioning of the child protection system, to propose good and safe working practices, and to also control all child protection institutions. Child protection has gained considerable power, which fortunately seems to diminish, but it needs to be ensured that there is no abuse of power against children, young people and parents. Some will probably claim that now the Progress Party is adding up to an additional bureaucracy. But that's not the case. It is therefore not intended that the county should have this task if independent supervision is established. The county has several hats on it in the child-restraint management and therefore supervision should be independent from it. Such child protection supervision will also enhance very good competence and will soon be able to reflect the biases of Norwegian child protection. In the case of the Progress Party, it is important that where public intervention in the private sphere is possible, there should also be opportunities for the private party to feel that legal certainty has been ensured in all respects. Then to the local anchoring. The progress party does not want to go back to the time you had children's protection students in all municipalities. But we want some kind of political selection that has the right to vote in all cases brought before the council members. As mentioned earlier today, the Progress Party does not see any reason to keep the members, as we are of the opinion that the ordinary courts should be able to deal with these matters. However, as long as there is no majority in order to resolve these particularities, we must at least ensure that the cases submitted to the respondents must also be clarified from both sides in the case before the case is brought to the attention of the honourable Members. By giving a political choice of the right to vote, it is politicians who are given top local responsibility for child protection issues, not child protection, as is the case today. In addition, policy-makers are given the opportunity to make an overall assessment of both the economic and professional aspects of child protection. The Progress Party supports the Workers' Party and has the same view as the Workers' Party has outlined in relation to these Regional Councils. It's going the right way when we decide tonight that County Child Protection and Family Protection will be transferred to the state. And with some of the proposals being promoted and getting a majority today, we believe in the Progress Party that we are on the right track. But for us it's a long way to go before we're in the goal: to get a child protection that acts when it's going to, but that at the same time has the humility you should have when you intervene in other people's lives. Finally, I would just like to inform you that we have made a proposal in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 40 for 2001-2002 earlier today, which is identical to proposal No. 5 from the Progress Party included in the setting in this case. We are drawing that proposal, because it fell in connection with the discussion of St.meld. No 40, and it's at an incubation also promoted here. So we're going to draw that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e593	Perhaps the representative should address the proposal of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e596	I then take up the proposal of the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e601	Karin S. Woldseth has then drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e604	Today we are dealing with the Act amending Law 17 July 1992 No. 100 on child protection services and 19 June 1997 nr. 62 on family protection offices. The Children’s Protection Act is the law that governs children who are particularly vulnerable. It regulates the greatest intervention on the part of children and parents, especially when using the forced paragraphs, which in the most serious cases may mean that the public assumes responsibility for the individual child. When public authorities take care of children and use coercive measures to implement relief measures, it is essential that there is control and quality of the measures taken. The examination of this law in the Committee has led to many good proposals for which there is a majority and which will improve the legal certainty of children in Norway. I am very pleased with many of the proposals for which there is a majority today. Many of the changes that have a majority in the committee, I believe, are one of the most important things our committee deals with during this major period. And it will have great significance for the children covered by this law. That being said, of course, I'm not just satisfied. I would have been if we had received a majority for all SV's proposals. Our proposals are all aimed at providing children and young people with more legal certainty, more targeted assistance and better child protection. The biggest challenge we have today is to provide children and young people with the right help at the right time. The resources of child protection around municipalities and county municipalities in Norway are scarce, and large ‘tourover’ and large exceedances of child protection budgets are reported from all over the country. It is serious that there is an economy and not a need for measures, as this concerns the most vulnerable children in our society. By not offering these children, it will often be bad, and the social costs in the long term are huge. On the other hand, children have rights. They shall be entitled to treatment and services when they need it, and we shall make several proposals in connection with St.meld. No 40 who will take care of this. There are innumerable examples of the postponement of the treatment of young drug users until they are 18 years old and are left to the social budget, so that they do not hit tight child protection budgets. This is not acceptable. If treatment of drug users is to be successful, it is necessary to obtain help as quickly as possible. Therefore, we are pleased that there is a majority to ensure that children on child protection measures are given legal rights to psychiatric and drug treatment. The criticism that has emerged earlier today falls on its own unfairness when it is said that these children are treated better. It is the child protection law that we are now dealing with, and therefore these children must be respected in this law. The main amendment to the law to be adopted today is that county child protection is to be transferred to the State. SV believes, in principle, that the second line service in child protection should be a county responsibility. It is very unfortunate that the state acquisition of county responsibilities in the health and social field has not been fully and collectively treated. And it is critical that one sector is presented at a time for discussion. SV believes that it is important that family protection, child protection and care are organised at the same level and therefore adhere to the state acquisition of child protection and family protection. But we're going to point out that we're completely against the Government's method, which is to cut down the county council by removing tasks bit by bit from this level. SV is critical of the centralisation effect of the state acquisition of child protection if child and family protection is organised in five regions. We believe that one region in North Norway is too small, and want a regional office in Alta and one in Bodø. It is important to ensure that both geographical and administrative distances between levels are not excessive. In order to develop good services for users, it is important that the various measures can be adapted to regional differences. It is therefore necessary to provide flexible solutions in the administrative regions to take account of these considerations. Oslo is in a special position because it is both county municipality and municipality. We support the proposal that Oslo's organisation be continued as it is today, but we want this to be evaluated after two years. We are pleased that we have received a majority in favour of this. It is not natural for Oslo to have a regional office when Oslo is not to be organised in the state. When you're about to move out of Oslo, it's strange to suggest a regional office in Oslo, when Oslo is not going to be organized like the rest of the country. Eastfold is the county that had most children on child protection measures in 2000. At the same time, fewer measures are taken – only 43 pst. - by messages. For comparison, 63 pst measures are taken. by the children of More and Romesdal. This, I think, is driven by economics, and I expect that in this reorganisation we are now doing, children will have a more equal offer across the country, and that it is professional and not economic considerations that will govern the measures of child protection in the future. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the SV, agree that child protection should be enshrined politically, both at local and regional level. We've got a lot of footage of hearings, reporting concern for little political involvement in child protection. It is absolutely necessary for the budget and for overall thinking about the prevention of child protection that we now have a political anchor. The regional framework shall be politically anchored, consisting of a Council, which shall have representatives appointed politically from each State as well as from multidisciplinary representatives. The proposal to ask municipalities to set up a cooperation body for local services consisting of representatives of e.g. child protection, school, kindergartens, police, health care, non-governmental organisations and politicians I'm glad it's going to be the majority for. And the proposal for a change of law so that the obligation of professional secrecy does not prevent cooperation with other agencies is absolutely necessary in order to achieve interdisciplinary cooperation around children and young people and their growing-up conditions. There are examples of countless public people working with the same family and the same child without knowing about each other. This is not appropriate, and an unnecessary amount of resources is being used. It is tiring for the child concerned, and it is tiring for the family concerned. We now need better multidisciplinary cooperation so that the help we provide is more focused. It is necessary to curb the negative development we have with increased drug and violence use. What I am most pleased about in this amendment is the proposal for a separate authorisation scheme for all municipal and private child protection institutions. This proposal has been promoted several times by SV. We have long been concerned that there has not been such an authorisation scheme. Anyone has been able to open an institution, and it is very lucrative in Norway today to run such institutions. The placement of a child costs the public a lot of money, and when you take care of a child, we need to know that the institution or foster home in which the child is placed is professionally sound. We have several examples from the media lately, where there have been major gaps around our institutions. It's sad, and it's our responsibility. It is also a problem that county authorities report that they have too little resources to take care of the burden of child protection. They do neither supervision in institutions nor municipal child protection. In its draft budget, SV promoted a strengthening of this important field. It is serious when it is announced that some statesmen are only doing 50 pst. of the statutory child protection surveillance visits. This is the department's responsibility to get in place. I've brought this up with the government council Victor Norman, who claims that the statesmen have enough resources. But it is still the department's responsibility to put this in place, as this concerns the legal certainty of children. I expect the National Councils of the Ministry of Children and Family to address this across the departments. I take up our proposals – those we promote alone, and those we promote with others – and I hope, of course, that someone has thought about it, so that we get a majority for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e639	May Hansen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e642	Today, we are adopting an important reform of child and family protection. The former tasks of the county are assumed by the State. With this we believe that an important basis has been laid for a better and more equivalent offer in these areas across the country. We are therefore pleased that the Government has been able to implement its legislative proposals, which are based on clear visions. This applies not least to the new child protection, which is now in the cast. Nor shall it be concealed that, in other words, it is exclusively the child protection which has been the subject of discussion through the work of the Committee, which is also reflected in the attitude. As far as family protection is concerned, I would like to remind you that the Christian People's Party voted against when the responsibility for this was transferred to the county councils, and we are therefore pleased that it is now full of excitement to bring it back to the state. The aim will be, above all, to bring down the queues of these offices and to strengthen the competence of the service. Family protection and child protection are interrelated in many ways, and it is therefore also natural for these areas to be seen in context and for the State to assume the functions of the county in both areas at the same time. The Government proposes a model of child protection management with five state regional units. The Christian People's Party will point to more things that we believe could improve when the state assumes secondary responsibility in child protection. Firstly, we believe that better technical assistance will now be provided to municipalities, so that no children will be at risk of public failure and that fewer children will need long-term institutional space. Secondly, we believe in better coordination of services, thirdly on better quality assurance of services, fourthly on better and more differentiated provision of institutional space and special services for the children who need it, and fifthly we believe in better financial control. It is important to stress that the state level should play a part in municipal child protection in order to help vulnerable children and their families. Treatment and various strengthening measures shall be put together with municipal resources and not after the assistance measures. The aim is to ensure a more holistic approach, raised above the establishment and professional limits, to the best of the child. An important area of activity will therefore be to find good and reliable close-ups around families with children, in the hope of being able to enable the family to function at the earliest possible time. A main goal of the Christian People's Party in child protection in the years to come is to enable families to function well. Children are best off with their own parents, and we need to do more to enable their parents to take care of their children. Nevertheless, we sometimes have to go through with care as a last resort. But it also has to be done for the child. The child’s best interests shall be focused at all times. Once the Government has decided that in each region there should be a central office responsible for the administrative tasks and coordination of actions in the region, we think it makes sense. In each region, there will also be a number of institutions which together form a wide and differentiated instrument of action. We believe it would be beneficial for the institutions to be located geographically throughout the regions, and for the administrative regional office, which has the overall responsibility for this measure, to have at all times a complete overview of vacant positions in institutions and foster homes. Then, the professional activities can be carried out primarily locally in the regions, by establishing professional resource units in the regions, which will have the task of assisting municipalities in the difficult cases, including in relation to the placement of children away from home. Finally, a note to the majority of the Committee, consisting of all opposition parties, seeking to establish a representation of politicians at all levels of child protection. The same majority has also made a very brief comment calling for the regional offices to be politically anchored by a Council of political representatives appointed by each State, as well as interdisciplinary representatives. Rarely have I seen such a small exhaustive description of such a seemingly important issue in an adjustment. So we want to introduce the representation of politicians at all levels of what should be an administrative body, and expand the organisational model that has been proposed, without telling us what kind of bodies you think, what mandates they intend to have, or where they should be chosen or appointed. This has been notified to the Government in two buttons, without any detailed description. There is reason to wonder that emerging politicians, who otherwise do not tend to have difficulty giving detailed descriptions, in this case are so brief. It was after all to judge the only thing they could agree on. But the rest of us don't get very wise. One question may also be: Why have we not proposed a legal basis for this either? Here one gets the unmistakable impression that it is more important to give the government a kick in the back than to find schemes that work well, for the benefit of the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e663	In Ot.prp. No 9 for 2002-2003 the Government proposes that tasks for which the county is responsible under the applicable law in the area of child protection and family protection should now be transferred to the State. In the field of child protection, responsibility for the establishment and operation of child protection institutions and for the recruitment and dissemination of foster homes is the main concern. In the field of family protection, responsibility for ensuring that family protection services are provided in the county. The proposal concerns the division of tasks and the organisation of future child protection. Furthermore, child protection has been fully addressed through the Committee's work on the notification of St.meld. No 40 for 2001-2002. This message was, as you know, dealt with in an aggregate pool earlier today. The party welcomes the emphasis on local political responsibility for child protection and stresses the importance of political commitment. However, it is paradoxical that the Communication underlines the need for local political anchoring and responsibility in municipal child protection, but proposes to remove the local political anchoring of the regional level. The central party believes in principle that the second line service should still have been a municipal responsibility, and sees it as very unfortunate that the state acquisition of county responsibilities in the health and social field has not been treated together. It is highly critical that a sector-by-sector discussion is presented and that this has not been coordinated in time. But we see it as important that family protection, child protection, drug care and psychiatry are seen in context and organised at the same level. In view of the fact that psychiatry and Russo care will be State responsibility, the Centre joins in the proposal for a State acquisition of child protection and family protection. The Central Party is pleased that a majority of the Committee clarifies that regional offices should be politically anchored and that a Council composed of political representatives should be set up. In view of this majority comment, it is expected that the Ministry will come back with proposals for policy organisation at regional level. In line with the views of the Centre Party, a strong desire for stronger political governance of child protection as a red thread goes through the comments of the majority. The entire Committee, with the exception of the representatives of the government parties, considers it very important that politicians be represented at all levels of this work. This applies not least in the municipalities. The understanding, information and knowledge of challenges and issues are essential to enable local politicians to make the necessary and proper priorities. Therefore, child protection must be organised in municipalities in such a way that not only the economy is governed by politicians. I am well aware of this and understand the importance of after many years in key local policy positions. Some will probably wonder that the Centre Party does not support the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party when these parties believe that the State has to pay the costs of the municipalities to experts and lawyers in the matters raised for the county. The central party believes it is important to maintain the financial liability principle in the services for which the municipality is responsible. But this principle requires an acceptable local economy. That's actually not the case today, but it's allowed to hope for better times in that sector as well. It was also a prerequisite for the Central Party to support state takeover that child and family protection at regional level be organised as an administrative body. In fact, it is very gratifying and perceptive that a unanimous committee determines that one by a business model would lose further political support and anchoring and legitimacy in the population. I allow myself to wonder if Stortinget has finally learned from all the closed processes and cultures that characterize health businesses. In any case, it is good to record that such a majority sees the need to upgrade the ombudsman role in this important work. It is also important that the Committee seeks flexibility in the regional breakdown, both in terms of the number of regions and the possibility of establishing local contact points in the regions. The government is asked to review this now and then evaluate the regional breakdown continuously in the light of the experience gained with the reorganization. Although the arguments in terms of prevention, which are primarily related to the handling of the notification, I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight the importance of multidisciplinary coordination in order to coordinate, target and ensure the quality of child and family protection prevention. In order to succeed in this work, individual families must be able to contact one place in the municipality and necessary legislative changes must be made to ensure that the obligation of professional secrecy in the field of child protection does not prevent cross-border cooperation. Cultures, human resources and organisation are so different in municipalities that this work must be organised in different ways. Therefore, it is the right of the Stortinget to carefully ask the ‘Government to request the municipalities to set up a Local Service Cooperation Body consisting of representatives from, for example: child protection, school, kindergarten, police, health care, non-governmental organisations and politicians’.» [[SLT]] I have great faith that this cooperative body will develop into an important body for prevention. Finally, I would like to point out the importance of a proper settlement with the county councils, with full compensation and justice in view of previous priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e686	I am very pleased that a Joint Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs supports the proposal to take over the tasks of the county council in the area of child protection and family protection. This is a major and important reform, which will contribute not only to improving the second line of services but also to the first line, namely the childcare services in municipalities. It is the municipal child protection services that are ordered by the action apparatus of the second line service. Also, without a well-functioning second-line service, the first-line service cannot function properly. A reinforced second-line service will therefore strengthen the ability of municipalities to operate good child protection. I will not go into all the details of the proposal, but will take the opportunity to comment on some issues. In the field of family protection, the county council is today responsible for ensuring that the family protection service is properly and properly planned, dimensional and organised. In the field of family protection, the aim is to expand the service so that waiting lists go down. Furthermore, it is an objective to strengthen the competence of the service so that the difficult issues are better addressed. Strengthening the prevention of family protection will also reduce the scope of child protection. One of the main objectives of the reform is to ensure a good and equivalent response apparatus for children and young people across the country. In order to achieve a good and equivalent response instrument, we have gone in to create five regions. We have not proposed the legalisation of the regional breakdown or of the number of regions. The reason for this is that flexibility is necessary so that the need can be assessed continuously and changed if the situation or development so warrants. The aim is that the distance between municipalities and the second line service should be reduced by the fact that professional activities should not be carried out at a regional office but should be carried out widely and locally in the regions. This shall be done by establishing, in all regions, several professional resource units locally, such as: will have the task of assisting the municipalities. For the first time, the specific environments of competence currently in all countries will be maintained, in order to be further decentralised. However, administrative functions will be centralised to release resources for professional activities locally in the regions. The advantage of few and large regions is that this also allows for a more differentiated system of intervention than has been possible in current municipalities. These are too small to be able to offer different marginal groups with special needs. Children and young people in need of child protection measures are not a uniform group. They have different problems and needs, and it is necessary that the response apparatus reflects this. The proposal to assume the functions of the county council by the State does not imply any changes in the tasks and responsibilities of the municipality. The municipality shall remain the main actor in the field of child protection. However, many municipalities, mainly the small municipalities, need assistance from the second-line service in difficult child-restraint cases. Such assistance will be provided more widely and in a better way than at present through the decentralisation of the professional activities of the second line service. Even after a state acquisition, private institutions will still need to be used. Unfortunately, it is a fact that some private institutions have been lacking and that not all counties have adequately controlled the private measures. This, in turn, has led to the fact that some children and young people have not received a good enough offer. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee supports the proposal to introduce an authorisation system for private and municipal child protection institutions and the proposal to introduce quality requirements for all institutions, both state, municipal and private. However, an approval system is not sufficient. With regard to the need for improved provision for children and young people with behavioural problems, I would also like to point out that, on the initiative of the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, there is now a comprehensive overview of research into the treatment of outpatient young people in institutions. Such a knowledge overview reinforces the potential to develop an increasingly better institutional and treatment provision for young people with major behavioural problems. On this basis, principles of treatment will be developed that increase the likelihood of successful treatment outcomes. Finally, let me say that I have great faith that the legislative proposals that Odelstinget is dealing with today will provide a strengthened family protection agency and a better and more equivalent offer to the children and the young people who cannot live with their parents, and who therefore need the help and support of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e705	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e708	I'm going to be very short, because I've said a lot about this before today. I only have one question for the Council of State. What will the Council of State do about some statesmen doing only 50 pst. of the regulatory supervision of the protection of children? This is of great importance to the last Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e715	On the part of the Government, we are already in the process of establishing better supervision of child protection institutions, and we fully agree that there is a need. We have had a working group with representatives from several departments where we look at a different system, namely to switch to a type of system supervision. Today — and the county officials have repeatedly pointed it out, for many years in fact — that for at least some child protection institutions, the need to exercise supervision is likely to be much greater than what is happening today, i.e. more than eight times a year. Today, there is a regulatory oversight responsibility, i.e. eight times a year. This is true of all child protection institutions, whether they function well or not. In some cases, an institution will be so well known over time that it may not be necessary to go to that institution more than a couple of times, so as to further prioritise those who really need it. We are making a completely different arrangement for supervision. There should be better supervision. At least I can promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e724	I have a question for the Council of State, and it's actually not meant to be a critical question. People move more often than before, and there are many reasons why people move from place to place. For example, a heavily charged family of four children has moved from municipality to municipality. Child protection in a small municipality, which got this family as a resident, called an alarm. The case ended with a transfer of care for all four children. The adults moved again, and the family has no connection to the municipality. With today's arrangement with a municipal estate of NOK 22 000 per person Children per day month, the small municipality, which has actually done its job for the benefit of the children, is left with an annual cost of approx. One million. kr. Does the Council of State see that such a scheme can cause municipalities to hesitate to do their job? And does the Council of State see the need for a more detailed review of these arrangements?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e731	This system of who is responsible for the child by taking care of the child, or by taking action, is actually a system that works very well for the children. The scheme is based on the fact that a child should not be able to become a caste ball between different municipalities depending on where one may be present in the event that it appears necessary to take, for example: care. The background is that children should have the right to remain in the municipality of the child at all times. Therefore, municipalities today cannot reject a child in need of help while referring to the child’s residence in another municipality. In fact, it is easy for everyone to determine which municipality is responsible, as it is sufficient to establish that the child has a residence in the municipality for this municipality to have an obligation under the law. I think this is a good arrangement for the children, and it's the most important thing. I hope and believe that a professional child protection in any municipality where a child lives does what is necessary for the child. At least we see that that's how it looks to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e738	No more words have been asked for. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e743	I'm terribly sorry when there are claims from the Christian People's Party – and I'm actually taking that to myself – that it's much more important for the opposition to kick the government behind than the child's best. It might have been an advantage for the representative to whom I addressed this post, in fact was also present and heard after. I choose to interpret it there that the representative Lånker misunderstands completely. The decision we are going to make today, and all of which is completely agreed on is a great decision to make, is to bring county child protection to state administration. After this decision has been taken, there are three levels of government: it is the municipality, it is the new regions, and it is the department of the Council of State. We are then accused because we want political anchoring at all levels, including at regional level, that this has very little to do with the county. If you appoint a political representative – I just take an example, this is not an agreed distribution or region – from, for example. Hordaland, one from Sogn and Fjordane and one from Rogaland, will be part of the Regional Council. That's what's in this note. If this was so unclear to the representative Lånke before we went to the hall here today, he might have made it known, so that we could have clarified it better. So kicking is not my way of doing things. To believe that the most important thing for the opposition is to kick the government over the children's best, well, then the representative Lånke has not followed in particular what I have said neither today nor before. It's the best of children who always stand first when I discuss child protection, and that's how it will always be. Whether it's the opposition or the position that gets a kick and doesn't like the suggestions I'm promoting, well, they get to tolerate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e755	I'm actually a little in doubt if the Council of State understood the content of my question. I actually feel that I did not get the right answer. The scheme is good for the children as long as this works. I agree. I, like the Council of State, have great faith in the professional assessments that are being made around. But then it's like, as I try to point out in my question, that people move, and those who actually do their job are more or less randomly sitting back with the bill. And I repeat the question: does the Council of State see that such a system can lead to local authorities suffocating to do their job? And does the Council of State see the need for a more detailed review of these arrangements?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e762	If the representative Karin Woldseth feels that I have given her motives that she does not have, I regret that. I also don't think that the opposition here has been led by – necessarily – giving the government a kick. I believe them that they've wanted to do a serious and good job, so I'll definitely bite into it. But I could not fail to point out that the two small comments that this majority has agreed on are very, very short, meaningless and difficult to interpret for those who are going to work on the matter. Now the representative Heggem from the Central Party said it was desirable for the Council of State or the Government to return to Stortinget with this matter. It may be an idea, but it has not been mentioned in this context. I do not tend to go back and recapitulate what has been discussed during the committee's work. It's not common to do on the platform. However, I cannot fail to remember that I have made the representatives aware that I thought this was a very short and little telling remark, which we hoped one could elaborate something more, promoted as a proposal or at least suggested that this had something to do with the law. This is not mentioned in the law. Nor is it suggested that this should be regulated. So you'll think of a voluntary system, a kind of political organisation outside the administrative body that I find very strange. Why, then, could you not agree to write anything more? I do not think it is necessary in itself to start a new debate on it. I just had to point out that I thought this was a bad political work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e773	First, until the question I got: It is true that in the cases where care measures have been taken, the removal municipality, if you move, will retain responsibility. We have not seen any reason – and I have not seen any reason to do so – to make any changes to this. As far as we know, this works well. We believe that there is a system that we can live with, and we have not taken this up in particular in the odelstingsproposition or in the message. Then I want to clarify a little bit about the organisational model. It is possible that there are some uncertainties. I don't know. But it's about the last debate on the Regional Councils. It is not that there will be three levels of child protection administration after this conversion. There's kind of two levels of government: it's going to be the state, and then it's going to be the municipalities. From the state side, we place some administrative and professional tasks around different regions. But it's the Council of States, right now represented by myself, who becomes the top political leader of child protection. So the state part of child protection is located through some institutions, administrations, etc. in some regions. Any regional council composed of politicians from county municipalities will no longer be responsible for child protection. They have no financial responsibility, nor do they have a political responsibility for child protection anymore, because child protection is in a way state-owned and municipal. I choose to say it this way, because it is a little unclear to me also what you want these regional councils to do in that case without an economic and without a political responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e782	Let it be clear that with the proposal or comment we have, it is a strong desire that politicians should be held accountable at all levels. We do not in any way instruct the Council of State on how this will work, but we think of regions, and we also think that they can be represented by a politician from every state in the region, so that they have a closeness to these institutions and places, and that they can share responsibility politically. But we have also said that there should be professionals there, who should have an overview, and you might get a debate on how best to have the places, how to follow up, etc. It is the strong desire for a political anchoring that politicians should sit there with professionals who are our goal. Then I want to take the representative Ola T. Borrow a little visit. He said he wouldn't start a new debate, but he manages to do so in an excellent way, even when he says he won't. I do not represent the party of Ola T. Loan, the Christian People's Party, but at least I have the respect for one who – in opposition or position, or in parties other than my own – makes suggestions, that I do not think it is wise to characterize the proposals as null and void. I think the representative of the Christian People's Party should do the best in it. We're from different parties, but I actually think everyone thinks the best in one case. It must be allowed to make suggestions and come up with ideas. When we have a strong belief that political anchoring is the best thing – not least because child protection has been easy to be one – we shall say – the case for people with vocational education and competence in the field – it is because we believe that there is also a need for a little healthy public awareness in the whole thing. That's what we're concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e789	Ola T. Lånke has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e792	Yes, if this is what is now called a proposal, but which is a remark in the setting – and I'm a little bit different from those things – boils down to the fact that you want advice from a politician or maybe more at the different levels, whether it be two or three, it depends a little on how to define it, I really don't think this is a big deal. But it's not that easy, I think, to read out of the comments that have come. The fact that I stamped them as ‘indestructive’, I may also be criticised, but it was a word I chose because it was quite close to me as a political party belonging to another party and did not agree with such a scheme as is outlined here. I think, and I also have to say, that you could have cost yourself a slightly more comprehensive description, so that we could at least understand how to think about this. Now we've got more access to descriptions here that complement this, and we're going to hope that we get to the goal of a system that's good for the children, not least.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e799	I think it's important that we stay a little bit right at this point, because it might have been a little bit unclear to us. I believe, of course, that the representative fell when she says that it is a strong desire that politicians should have responsibility at all levels, and that, of course, it is a proposal that has been promoted with the aim of ensuring that child protection is managed as well as possible. I think so. But it is that, with a two-fold division of child protection, in the proposed regions, there will be entirely ordinary administrative bodies subject to the State. So they're state-owned. That's what makes it a little bit difficult. It is a little difficult to see the purpose of sitting in any regional council and not having budgetary responsibilities, not having financial responsibilities and not having political responsibilities. Because it is the municipalities, not the counties, who will be ordering the actions and services of the region in the future, in the new child protection. Therefore, it is the municipalities that, through their administrative and political systems, will be the most important influence actor, if I may say so, in relation to the development of actions and services. The municipalities will therefore be the key partners of cooperation for the state regions at both administrative and political level. Once again, I want to clarify: we get a two-part child protection, a state and a municipality, and there is political and administrative responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e808	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 379.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e821	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e828	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Eirin Falldet, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 2, by Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Progress Party The proposal from the Workers' Party is as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the Working Environment Act in order to ensure that workers’ rights and protection in relation to work in night and Sunday-open establishments in the trade in goods are safeguarded by this Act.’ The proposal from the Progress Party reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to refer a matter to amend the alcohol law as soon as possible. other laws so that the sale of beer can follow the opening hours of the shops.» Both proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e860	It is first voted on V, which concerns the repeal of the Opening Time Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e870	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e883	It is then voted over I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e1061	The party of progress has announced their opposition. The Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced that they will now support these Roman numerals subsidiaryly, as the Odelstinget has now decided to repeal the Opening Time Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e1091	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e1124	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e1134	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e1141	During the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Eirin Fallet, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, by Eirin Fallet, on behalf of the Workers' Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 4, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left-wing proposals No. 6-9, from May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, and proposal No. 5 from the Progress Party has not been tabled. Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a State authorisation system for the child protection institutions.’ Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a plan to cover the costs of the municipalities with experts and lawyers and other unforeseen costs in the child-restraint cases brought before the county council.’ Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose the establishment of a State Children’s Protection Authority.’ Proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess a change to new §5-1 of the Children’s Protection Act by including a provision that the regions also have a statutory responsibility to develop a plan for the use of private and/or municipal institutional places.’ Proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with an overview and plan of how the Child, Youth and Family Administration will develop a satisfactory level of competence enhancement within 1 year’.» [[BUFA]] Proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to place one regional office in Alta and one regional office in Bodø and one regional office in Fredrikstad.’ Proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party, it says: ‘The size asks the Government to come back with a reassessment of the number of regional breakdowns and location.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e1790	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e1800	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-lower-2.ana.ud1219e1825	B, C and D shall be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
