ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e82	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Rolf Terje Klungland from 21 November until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Mette Gundersen, is invited to meet during the period of leave.3. Mette Gundersen is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Rolf Terje Klungland.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e103	Mette Gundersen is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the scheduled time of 9 p.m. 15 to the current map has been completed. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It is thus deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e125	I want to tell two stories, not because I want the Council of State to address these individual issues in this debate, but because they describe the reality that asylum seekers have experienced and experienced when applying for protection in Norway. I first met Mahnaz from Iran in the summer of 2000. She had been covered after having received a rejection of her application for asylum. She had fled from an abusive man, had not told the truth about herself the sea during the asylum interview and was terrified of being sent back, because she knew that she risked punishment from society and zero protection from the police. She was not believed when she finally told the truth about why she had come to Norway. At the same time Kåre Bakken – and I mention his name, because he must have great honor for the problem to come up on the political agenda – came with the following ointment: ‘... there are 6 asylum seekers in Bergen seeking asylum on the basis of gender-based persecution. Where are the feminists?’ It was the beginning of ‘14 women in Bergen’, an ad hoc committee that I think everyone who has worked on asylum issues and gender-based persecution knows about and has certainly felt the pain of time. Today, too, ‘14 women in Bergen’ should have great honor for what they have done. People from the UDI say that a seminar organized by this group was the turning point in the UDI. Because of ongoing work, reason prevailed, and Mahnaz and others have been given residence — stay, yes, but not asylum, and that is quite typical of these women. The residence permit was celebrated. When one has known the pain and struggle of these women, any progress is celebrated. By the way, the municipality of Bergen has awarded the gender equality prize to the six because they have given faces to the asylum seekers. Much has happened since 2000. Among other things, the Council of State has sent out proposals for regulations that are many, many steps in the right direction. I will come back to them, but note that the regulations have taken into account the UNHCR guidelines of May 2002. But there's a lot left. Some of the six women still live in hiding, and they are not believed. I want to tell another story. In a crisis centre, a woman from a country with strong patriarchal structures sits. She came here with her husband after one of many crises in the area around this country. Gradually, it was found that both she and the children had experienced a gross assault from the man. He was sent back to the country of origin. She has applied for protection, but has received a refusal. The asylum authorities acknowledge that she is going to be beaten up and abused by the man and his relatives, also because she has applied for a divorce, if she is sent back. However, for the sake of strict and controlled immigration, she cannot receive asylum or stay, and she will certainly be protected by the police. Knowers of the situation in this country say that the police cannot, are able or willing to protect women who have been subjected to violence. Many people fail to understand that it may be so difficult to recognise that governments in countries with strong patriarchal structures cannot or will not protect women who violate social norms. After all, it has not been long since violent women were neither believed nor protected in similar Norway. There is nothing in the Refugee Convention to indicate that there should be a difference between the right of men and women to asylum and protection. The refugee convention is gender neutral. There has, however, been a great difference between men's and women's rights. Until the early 1990s, the image of a refugee was like this: a man, politically active and persecuted by the state. Women and children just accompanied the man. Then increased attention became international, not least because it became known and recognised that women in the Balkans were raped as part of a war strategy. Both the 1993 UN Conference in Vienna and the 1995 Beijing Women's Conference recognised violence against women as a gross violation of human rights and called for action against violence. In parallel, Canada has developed guidelines on the treatment of asylum requests from women who have fled from gender-based persecution. Later, other countries followed. Why then do women flee? Obviously, it may be for the same reasons as men, but most often for other reasons, because they have been subjected to violence and sexual assault in the private sphere. They flee from coercion, sexual mutilation or fear of atrocities, because they have lived under grossly discriminatory standards and laws, because they have protested against the overall position of men in the state, society or family, or have broken the codes for how a "right" woman should behave, thus causing shame to family and society. This must be recognised as a gross violation of human rights and as a ground for asylum, when their society cannot, will not or has the capacity to protect women. Here in Norway, new guidelines on asylum criteria came in 1998. They opened up asylum on the basis of gender-specific persecution. That's good. But – and that’s not just my claim – they were of little importance for a long time, because the guidelines were vague and were perceived as low-obligatory, and because gender-based or gender-specific persecution was to fall within the definition and concept of social membership of the Refugee Convention. This may be problematic because, as study reports show, there is great confusion in the authorities about what the ‘social group’ is. For several reasons, it is important that all five grounds for persecution be interpreted in relation to women’s experience. Women express their opposition to politics or religious norms in less visible ways than men do. At that time, perception and not just political action must be included in the protection categories. The Refugee Council has concluded that women have problems when applying for asylum in Norway. So one problem has been the interpretation of the refugee definition in the UN Convention on Refugees. Another relates to the implementation of the decision-making process in the asylum case. In a meeting with a representative of the refugee authorities in Canada, this representative expressed the importance that the guidelines for the asylum interview are also very clear and detailed, and how important it is to have knowledge of the symptoms of women who have been abused. It is important throughout the process to take into account that it is difficult and often associated with shame to tell about the assault. Perhaps it may take a long time for the truth to come out, simply because she cannot put words on it, or because it cannot be told if family or other men are present. Therefore, it should not be held against women that she did not tell the truth in her own statement or interview. Another problem: the asylum interview is increasingly based on the self-declaration that everyone needs to fill in. If a woman is illiterate – and more women may be illiterate when coming from these countries – and is unable to write the statement, nor can she read the content of the interview, this may help to reduce her credibility in the eyes of decision-makers. My Canadian interlocutor made a very strong point, was how important it is to the development of education and skills of all those involved with asylum seekers. I encourage the Council of State to be very vigilant when she hears this, for practice does not come of itself. Here it is about a long, tough and patient work. We in SV have studied suggestions for the regulations carefully, and we believe that they can be very useful until we get a new foreign law. But we encourage the Council of State to make them even more detailed. Many of the explanations, especially on causality, should be included in the regulations in order to make equal treatment even more effective. Two other calls: the legal certainty of these women may be weakened when one is required to get the applications away at record speed. It also points to Cecilia Bailliet, who has made a report for the ministry. Another challenge is: make sure that more research is done on this topic in Norway. So far, there have been a few scientists who have done it. They've done an excellent job, but we need more knowledge that can help improve practice. Then I'm waiting for a fruitful dialogue, I think, with the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e166	I also hope that we can have a fruitful dialogue on this topic, because this is a topic that a broad majority of the Storting has been concerned about, and that was also carefully addressed in the context of the treatment of St.meld. No 17 for 2000-2001 spring 2001, also based on a Document No. 8-proposals relating in particular to the situation of the women concerned and the individual cases which had occurred. The government has launched a series of measures to make it visible that gender-based persecution provides a basis for asylum in Norway. There is no doubt that persecution on the basis of gender is a basis for asylum, but it is quite clear that there has been a greater need to make it visible as a cause for persecution. I have therefore sent, at the hearing, proposals for amendments to the asylum procedure rules to make this visible, as well as proposed new rules supplementing the refugee definition in the 1951 Refugee Convention. The Government has set up a legal committee to review the Foreign Affairs Act and propose a new law or laws in this area. The mandate of the panel is to ensure equality in foreign legislation. The sample shall assess whether there is a need to strengthen the legal position of women, e.g.: in relation to an application for asylum or residence on other grounds. In addition, as the interpellant has also referred to, I have carried out a research mission that assesses the border between asylum and residence permits on a humanitarian basis in Norway. Part of that project is an assessment of the impact of legislation and practices on asylum seekers claiming gender-based persecution. Let me say a few words about gender-based persecution as definitions – there's a lot of news in foreign law. Gender-based persecution is a term that some people are persecuted on the basis of their gender. The concept of gender-based persecution is an aid concept that is often used to describe the persecution itself, and what is the cause of the persecution, that is, the reasons for the Convention. The manner in which the persecution itself takes place may be motivated by the sex of the victim. An example of this is sexualized violence, for example. rape, sexual mutilation or forced sterilisation. Furthermore, the cause of the persecution may depend on the sex of the applicant. An example of this may be that women are at greater risk of discrimination than men because they are women. Both women and men may be subjected to this kind of persecution. It's important to say that this is not female persecution. It's gender-based persecution. Examples of persecution may include sexual orientation, domestic violence, sexual mutilation, carnage burning, annihilation, coercion, forced prostitution, forced sterilisation, forced abortion, and trafficking in human beings. So this list is not exhaustive. There are several forms of persecution that may fall within the definition of ‘gender-based persecution’. It is necessary to consider in concrete terms what persecution is in the sense of the Refugee Convention. It is true that people at risk of persecution because of their gender or sexual orientation can be recognised as refugees and thus be granted asylum in Norway. The refugee convention opens this door. With effect from 15 January 1998, this has also been a practice in Norway. The Ministry of Justice amended its practice by guidelines of 13 January 1998. At the same time, they instructed the Foreign Affairs Directorate that Article 1A of the Refugee Convention, which defines who is a refugee, should be interpreted in such a way that persecution on grounds of sex and sexual orientation could fall within the category of membership of a special social group. Although persecution because of sex is not mentioned as a cause covered by the Refugee Convention, and it has probably reason to believe that it was written in 1951, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees for several years has stated that the Refugee Convention must be interpreted in the light of gender as a relevant factor in assessing whether a person is a refugee, the so-called gender perspective of the refugee assessment. We believe that it is necessary to recognise that certain references to gender-related persecution can and should fall within the scope of the Refugee Convention by a proper understanding of the refugee definition. But these are different practices for different countries. The High Commissioner stresses that it is not sufficient to establish the existence of persecution, using the term ‘due to’ in Article 1 of the Convention. This must indicate that there must be a causal link between the persecution and one or more of the five reasons referred to in Article 1A of the Refugee Convention. In May, I submitted changes to the foreign regulations at the hearing, where I proposed changes to the asylum rules to ensure that women seeking asylum have the same opportunity as men to be recognised as refugees, and thus to be granted asylum in Norway. At the same time, I proposed laying down rules on the interpretation of key concepts in the refugee definition. This is the case in the first series of circumstances identified in the 1998 guidelines. In the letter of consultation, I called for the repeal of these 1998 guidelines, because, due to international developments in the field of asylum, they are not fully adequate for the description of gender-based persecution. They are not comprehensive because the guidelines state that, as a general rule, gender-based persecution can provide a basis for asylum if the asylum seeker can be said to be a member of a special social group. The guidelines also mention correctly that more indirect public opinion from women on women’s rights may fall within the political perception criterion and that it may therefore fall within the scope of the Convention’s concept of refugee. This wording was, in our opinion, passive and may be so doubtful that gender-based persecution can take place because of all the five grounds of convention mentioned in the Refugee Convention. The consultation round has ended. We are in the final phase of the work on the follow-up to the hearing opinions. When we have such a process, and with the interpretation of the law and understanding we have today, we will see that much of what emerged in that hearing and in the formulations that have been put forward is already being practised in both UDI and UNE as ways of interpreting the law, precisely because we now have a responsibility to design rules and interpretations ourselves. In February 2002, I launched a research mission to highlight the boundary between granting asylum and staying on a humanitarian basis for reasons of protection. I got the two reports at the end of June this year. There are, therefore, 300 asylum cases from the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Foreign Affairs decided between 1998 and 2003, which have been examined. The main report from the project illustrates the reasons why so few spontaneous asylum seekers are granted asylum in Norway, based on the cases examined. The report also assesses the adequacy of the legislation. It reviews the gender perspective and assesses whether female asylum seekers have equal opportunities as men to receive protection in Norway. I have asked the Foreign Directorate and the Foreign Affairs Department for the follow-up of these reports, and I will come back to their follow-up later. Since 1998, therefore, more people have been granted asylum because they have been persecuted either because of sexual orientation or because of their gender. In addition, some have been granted humanitarian residence for protection reasons. It is important to stress that in Norway we have some who are Convention-related refugees, but we also have refugee-like situations as a basis for humanitarian stay. Official statistics are not provided on the reasons for granting asylum or residence on a humanitarian basis on a need for protection. There is no possibility of statistics to say that asylum has been granted because of gender-based persecution. It is therefore not possible to quantify the number of people who are being asylumed because of gender-based persecution. There is no statistical distinction between the reasons why people get asylum in Norway, because it is due to many circumstances, and it is very often so that there are several factors that occur at the same time. It is therefore difficult to say what was the main reason for getting asylum. For example, the rape of women from a particular ethnicity may be persecution which falls within all five grounds of the Convention. It can be race, religion, nationality, membership of a special social group or political opinion. It's therefore unnatural to operate with saying that it's gender-based persecution, because it can equally be an ethnic persecution that has this special female relationship in the way the persecution is done. Each case has to be considered in a concrete way, and it is often not necessary to consider the main cause of the escape, because it is necessary to assess whether the overall fear of persecution suggests that protection must be provided, the so-called cumulative assessment. At the same time, I would like to stress that protection is provided only if there is still a risk of persecution. It is therefore not the case that a found offence qualifies for asylum, but it must be assumed that sending back is still a risk of persecution. However, for a time, the Foreign Affairs Directorate has kept a manual register of concessions and refusals where gender-based persecution is a factor. In 2002, 55 cases were granted, either asylum or stay on a humanitarian basis, as a result of gender-based persecution. During the same period, 23 persons who had indicated this type of reason were refused. Most of those who were granted a residence permit received asylum. The types of persecution that most often led to consent were fleeing from the threat of coercion and fear of persecution as a result of previous rapes. Until September of this year, the Directorate for Foreign Affairs has granted asylum to 47 persons on the basis of gender-based persecution. As shown by what I have said, the Government has launched a series of measures in this area. It's an area that we still want to focus on. I think we have seen a significant change over the last few years, some of it because NGOs and groups have focused heavily on this and contributed to raising the debate on the issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e192	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e195	I thank you for a supplementary answer and articles. I would like to stress, as I understood, that the Council of State also did, that it is important to have the «women's glasses» on when one sees all five protection categories. I would also like to stress that the Council of State concluded that one of the reasons we have made progress in this area is that we have had non-governmental organisations that have had a continuous pressure in this area, and, I believe, courageous ladies who have stood up. I want to brag by the Council of State. I will again boast that the regulations she has sent out at the hearing will clean up and lead to a more inclusive practice. I want to challenge her on the issue of women in the interview process not being able or able to come up with the truth in the first place, and being tempted to lie, and then losing their credibility. It's an incredibly important point to raise. I have also talked to UDI and UNE, and I notice that here is the greater awareness of the matter. But I get a little in doubt and a little worried when I read some of the UNE's hearing statements, because I think they interpret the new regulations that are coming, very much after they're in line with existing practice or not. That is why I want the Council of State to say that the new regulations will, if they are followed, lead to a more inclusive practice than what is being carried out today. That's why, as I said, it's also important to include rules on causality in the regulations. Then I'll give the council another challenge. I mentioned that some of the women who came here several years ago, as gender-based persecution was more a theoretical concept of the asylum authorities than it is today, live with rejection or living in hiding. Those who know their stories are convinced that they have a need for protection and listen to groups of women from the same country, they support this belief. My appeal is, let's get these women to benefit from the doubt. Maybe they haven't got a fair and proper treatment. Do not take the chance that they will be subjected to atrocities or persecution. That would be a very important handshake.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e210	Let me start with the last one. With the law we have today, we can't put leadership on individual things. This does not prevent UNE from re-viewing the cases in the event of requests for conversion, and in that case they will always be assessed in accordance with the current legislation. Conversion requests come at regular intervals. A situation will eventually arise which may provide a basis for residence for reasons other than the original situation. We have seen that UNE has done this in connection with some of the church asylum cases, and evaluated how the human situation has been. I don't feel like we have a basis for per. The current date, not least because many of these cases have been re-examined, and some of them have been re-examined even after the consciousness has changed – that there is no basis for a stay. It is not a matter of doubt that there has been an infringement, but to a large extent the question of whether this will lead to the experience of being persecuted on a return trip. It is an essential criterion for getting asylum at all: not what has happened, not the credibility of history, but the assessment of the situation of a return. I assume that UDI and UNE have a good overview of the situation. But then to the second main question that was asked in the follow-up, which is what we do in relation to the interview situation. From 1 January 2003, the UDI is present at the arrival reception desks to provide information. So we've changed the process in relation to the information work. They provide information, assign lawyers and ensure that the self-declaration is filled in. The guidelines for this are that in an asylum situation, the UDI should help people with special needs in the interview situation. So it's an interpretation that you can ask to get interviews and interpretations from your own sex in order not to have to tell a man from his own culture about abuse, which is then passed on, and which is difficult. It's being organized for this. It also applies to some other people, it's not just women this is about, because it could be that torture victims and traumatized people also have this need. In addition to this, when last year we reduced the number of asylum lawyers' hours, we set up an information system that NOAS has now been offered to deliver, which should be information on rights and obligations and what to say to everyone who comes to the country. I think it's going to provide more systematic information to asylum seekers, and we're going to make sure that in that work we have not least focused on women who have had that kind of experience having to tell it in the first round. There's a more present information about one's rights, and there's an information that people can look for, and that's going to be present on the reception page. It's over five million. on the current year's budget have used precisely this type of information measure, which I believe is an important contribution to cleaning up and providing trust in the first instance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e219	I will first give credit to the interpellant for addressing this important matter. We know that men are largely granted asylum on the basis of war, political persecution or other visible abuses, while female asylum seekers are often persecuted not only by the authorities but also by the husband or in-law. Women are therefore affected differently by violence and persecution than are men. As women’s experiences differ from those of men, their explanations and evidence of asylum applications are also different. Women who have been subjected to sexualised violence have difficulty in obtaining evidence and evidence of this in connection with an asylum application. Human rights say that all humans have the right to freedom from violence, assault and fear. Yet millions of people experience violations of the most fundamental human rights every day. For these, everyday life is a struggle against oppression, violence and abuse. The Labour Party believes that the human rights conventions have largely been based on the experience of men. What has been understood as political persecution has been based on human experience of persecution. The experience of women and the experience of violence and persecution, their need for protection and rights attached thereto have been seen as different from the general human rights. The violence and persecution suffered by women belongs to the private sphere, and has thus not been seen to the same extent as part of the public sphere, which could provide the basis for asylum. This has also marked a number of things in this country, unfortunately. But women's vulnerable situation has gradually been taken more seriously. I show you, among other things: to the Storing Message to which reference was made here earlier, St.meld. No 17 for 2000–2001, where this has been addressed. Some positive steps have been taken gradually to include gender abuse, violence and persecution as violations of human rights. It's a step in the right direction, but I want to claim that there's a lot left. The Labour Party believes that women’s right to a residence permit or asylum should be strengthened in the light of gender-based persecution. This can be done both in the short and long term, through the regulations and through the handling of procedural rules, but also – and not least – through the review of the new Foreign Affairs Act, which is now being reviewed and will be sent to the Stortinget in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e234	Women are subjected to persecution other than men. This fact is the increasing understanding of international issues. Women are also being persecuted because they are women. The 1951 Refugee Convention does not specifically define gender. It is therefore positive that gender-based persecution has been the basis for asylum since 1998 in Norway as well. However, there is no reason to be passive, nor has this government done so. Regulations supplementing the refugee definition have been proposed and amendments to the asylum treatment rules have been consulted. The government has also set up a legislative committee to review both the Foreign Affairs Act and to propose one or more laws in this area. In order to assess the border between asylum and residence permits on a humanitarian basis in Norway, the Minister for Municipal Affairs has launched a research mission. This shows the force of action. This shows a willingness to act. Too many women fear being punished by the state, relatives or others because they have violated social rules that say how a right woman, a right mother, a right daughter or a right wife should behave. Punishment can be social exclusion, abuse or, in the worst case, murder. I am very pleased that the interpellant focuses on the serious situation of these women. I'd like to commend all the free-will organizations that have been involved in increasing the attention and commitment to gender-based persecution. Because this is too important to pursue party politics, the further work of the Government deserves broad political support.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e243	The fight against violence, and in particular the fight against violence against women, is policy of the utmost importance. It is what has in a way broken the taboos and boundaries of this, both in terms of domestic violence and systematic violence against women as a political repression mechanism in general. It is very important to politicise the violence that is also committed privately. And that's exactly what you do in countries where you have more traditional patriarchal women's vision than what we have in Norway. But even in Norway, there is widespread violence against women, and it is absolutely a political theme. It worries SV that when we in Norway are in doubt that we have a code and a practice that takes care of persecuted women well enough – yes, we are so in doubt that the Stortinget has asked the Government to make a new regulation to care for persecuted women well enough – we are not able to do what should be quite obviously right, namely to put all such matters on this theme, to rest until we have the new legislation in place. The fact that the Storting and the Government have acknowledged that the legislation is not good enough should lead to us taking that waiting time. It is fully possible to do on a general basis — not to go into each case, it is not possible for the Council of State or the Stortinget to do so, but on a general basis to wait for the rules to come. I think it is good that everyone gets better information than today about how they have to attend an interview to get their case submitted. But I think we have to stick our finger in the ground and know, first of all, that a lot of people through a long life have been impressed that some things are taboo, and this doesn't turn around using a brochure or a conversation. In addition to that, we know that very many refugees have to use human traffickers to get at all in safety. And what do we know about that? Well, then they get their ears full of all sorts of lies and fantasy that they're asked to tell in the asylum interview. A lot of people are in such an insecure situation and feel that this was the last way of life they had, that they stick to it and mistrust everything called government, police, and authority. We need to know that, especially with regard to these women, because they've been in such a suppressed situation for so many years that it'll take a very long time to make sure that the information you get from government is true and real. The most important thing we can do is give a signal that they're going to be. It's safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e252	On Wednesday I had a long chat with a friend from Lofoten. In his neighborhood there was an African woman who had been denied her application for asylum, and he wanted to help her with a desire for conversion. Jenta was a Catholic, he told, honest and labored – and despair. She had told, as it was true, that she was not a member of the forbidden tribal party. It was just father and brothers who were. But she belonged to the people. When the police and the military didn't find the brothers home in a raid at night, abused and picked the girls -- not once, many times. And on the school road, she was also picking out. She made food and supported the political activity of the family members. It was difficult for her to tell about the assault, so she used rewriting. It took a long time for the real story to come up. When she as a student demonstrated against injustice, unbelievably brave and strong, she was thrown into prison and elected again and again, by prison guards and military. It belongs to a social, ethnic group, a free-wild group, and it has experienced gender-based torture methods. She's 24 years old. What worries me is that she is trusted in what has actually happened, but this is explained as criminal acts – and it is despondent – and then says that there is no reason for it to happen again, even though it has happened many times and it still belongs to the same social group. I'm afraid when gender-based torture is considered a crime, because it's too simple. I'm afraid it's too uninformed, and definitely too distant. That is why it is good that more people get asylum and that they get it on a gender-based basis. And it's very good that the Council of States will focus on this. It is simply not enough that gender-related persecution is recognised as a principle; we need to see that it has practical consequences. It is not acceptable when abuse of women, coercion, sexual mutilation and the like is considered to be part of the private sphere, and not at all when gender-based torture is considered to be random crime. I also ask the Council of State to be aware of the persecution that does not happen from the authorities, but which they do not want or intend to fight down. Women are often subjected to such persecution. I will take a small example: woman, 45 years old, Kurdish, sentenced to death by her husband's family council after she was abused in 1997 by Turkish soldiers in the village where she offered. For her, the threat of adoration is real. In Norway, which has so much focus on and emphasis on women's rights, we cannot be content until we know that gender-related persecution is not ignored and underestimated. Unfortunately, I am not sure that is the case today, so we still have a job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e265	It is a difficult, but very important theme that SV is addressing today. There is a broad political consensus that gender-based follow-up should form the basis for asylum in Norway. The centre has shared questions both in the Question Time and in the handling of relevant cases to contribute to the joint effort required for the 1998 regulation to have a better and more concrete content. This is a field in which Mr Solberg, as well as in his time, was strongly involved, and she should now have all the opportunities to take initiatives to make concrete improvements. It is very good that the search light from the Government's page, among other things. are seen in the interview situation itself, and that interviews with people and interpretations of the sexes are now given. But the center part shares SV's concerns that the orientation lines as they are now designed and sent on the listener, are not clear enough. We want an even stronger commitment to knowledge and competence, and not least to listen, at all stages of the asylum process. We basically believe that there is concern that the need for a thorough procedure and for the necessary time can be too much addressed to the requirement that should also be applied to the effectiveness of the procedure. And I also want to encourage the Council of State to rethink if you don't get a new guideline until you get a new one, you can leave the issues that are under consideration, wait until new guidelines come into place. And then it's important in this debate that we don't talk about them and us. Family elections are also taking place in Norway, and a number of measures need to be put in place, both in emergency services and in many other bodies, in order to overcome family power and violence against women. In the end, it's a cross of thought for us that the women who in many ways have led the search light to be viewed on this question, not today can all feel safe. I thought we should sort that out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e285	In 1998, the Progress Party disagreed that gender-based persecution should be covered by asylum rights and legislation in this area. We're still of the same opinion. The 1951 UN Convention on Refugees was created after World War II, primarily based on the events of World War II, when different countries were attacked and attacked and occupied for many years, and there was a real war-like situation between nations that caused people to flee to neighboring countries because they actively waged resistance against the occupation. That was the starting point. We feel that now the sensible Refugee Convention is extended and practiced and interpreted to become something completely, completely different. The problems also appear when we know that there are huge differences between countries in the world. Many countries are exposed to dictatorship regimes and violations of human rights; there are also patriarchal cultures in many places, with completely different powers in men over women, and completely different cultures for family life. If gender-based persecution is to be a criterion for asylum, there will probably be many, many millions who come under that concept. And when we have an immigration pressure especially towards the Western world, as strongly as it is now, the Refugee Convention has actually become a way of bypassing the immigration regulations of the different countries. Not only do you try fake and fictional stories to trick yourself into getting protection when you really don't have a right to it. It's a huge device in every country to figure out what's real, and what's not real. In addition to all those who are trying to trick themselves, deceive themselves, by falsifying stories and lying stories to stay, we have human smuggling. And when you see the desperation that many actually demonstrate when they leave behind in containers and other things and risk their lives to come to Europe, for example. England and Norway, it is clear that implementation, or even more liberalisation of gender-based persecution, will also be exploited to a greater extent. Then you want to use that term in trick stories and fake stories to secure your stay. We just have to face up to the fact that we don't have enough room for all the millions who would very much like to come here to Norway and have the guarantees and welfare arrangements that we have. Here, unfortunately, we need to combat dictatorship and human rights violations in ways other than by opening up the borders for people with such stories to stay in Norway. So we disagree on the very basis of the interpolation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e294	Listening to Carl I. Hagen, you'd think there's only been one war in the world, and it was World War II. That war involved us, and therefore it was the only important war. We know better. We know that there are very many people in the world who suffer terribly much more than very many in Norway, and who need our solidarity, our understanding and our protection. It doesn't mean, however, that there are millions of people, millions of women, in line to tell us how many times they've been raped. It takes a good portion of reason to deal with this topic. Much has been said about it, including: by the representative of Anita Apelthun Seele, who pointed out how difficult it is for women just to tell about these things. But because Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party have never been concerned about women, they have not understood this either. They have not taken the trouble of going in and looking at what there are mechanisms of violence and abuse that make it so difficult to come here and ask for our protection. It's actually a terrible taboo. That means that there are a lot more people who find themselves in massive, repeated gross assaults than who come here and ask for our protection. We have a duty to engage in what it means to be subjected to severe persecution – which does not happen by the state, but where the state may not lift a finger to help. This is just as gross, if not more serious, assault than many of the abuses that have taken place in various war situations in the world. And that's a terrible sense of amputation for those who are involved, because no one is helping. I think it's going to be even worse and even more tragic when the Progress Party is those who are going to sort of stand in front of violence against women – only that practitioner is a Muslim resident in Norway. If women are subjected to violence in other parts of the world, it is clearly totally uninteresting for the Progress Party. I don't think that's a good idea. I really hope that people see the double morality in this, that you just want to protect your own citizens here, that violence against women is almost okay, as long as it doesn't take place within Norway's borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e305	I record that there is a great deal of consensus that we need to raise this topic and take it more seriously here in the hall. The exception is the Progress Party. I agree with every word None of the Marte Thorkildsen here said in relation to Carl I. Hagen's posts. It is precisely this that has been the objection from many here in Norway as well: because there are so many who are exposed to patriarchal structures, we cannot give them protection. They're so many, it's so common. That's also what was said when Canada introduced more inclusive guidelines. So there were no hordes of women applying for Canada; that's not the experience. When the Council of State says that she cannot deal with individual matters, I also believe that she can go on a general basis. The story that Anita Apelthun Seele told us shows that it's not just introducing regulations. This requires a long-term build-up of skills and a change of attitude. This is particularly true of the situation in the home country. And I say it again: I can't believe it's so hard to understand that the authorities of a country with strong patriarchal structures can't, won't or can't give protection to women who have broken any social codes and norms. That's why, in the further work, I think we need to focus a lot on driving a tough, long-lasting build-up of competence on that very thing, and listen to those NGOs that can tell some other stories, other experiences than what are the official ones. Once again, I would like to stress the need for the regulations to be even more detailed, especially on the basis of what Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa pointed out, that here you can get into the gap between efficiency on the one hand and taking care of these women on the other. Once I've brought up women in this interview, I'm aware that gender-based persecution is something more. But it's the women's situation that's been in our searchlight right now. I would like to stress that this is long-lasting and tough work, which needs our attention for a long time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e320	I think that, in the light of this interpellation debate, it can be broadly concluded that there is still a broad majority behind the fact that this is an important purpose, it is important to continue working, and it is important to find the good ways to do this. I would like to comment on some articles. I understand very well that when very many refugees – regardless of gender and background – come to a country, they will often find themselves in a situation where they mistrust the authorities. Therefore, it is very important for us that when we have now chosen to go on more information and a little less on legal aid at first instance, it should have been done by non-governmental organisations, not by government representatives. It shall in a way be an independent information activity, which has been tendered under public procurement law and in which NOAS has then won the tender. This is precisely why we need to take this sensitivity into account in order to meet a voluntary organisation, people who work with a different mandate and who may also be in opposition to the authorities – despite having an information task and a guidance task in relation to asylum procedures and practices in Norway for newly arrived refugees. So to the question of whether we should stop dealing with the issues. I'm really excited about what we're going to do about the question of gender-based persecution if we put issues of gender-based persecution in jeopardy. Because then all those who perceive it, and who really don't have credibility on that question, will invoke it and take advantage of it, and it will undermine the whole system. Gender-based persecution is very difficult. It's hard things to tell about. But if you're going to stop dealing with those issues, and do that as an opportunity to extend your stay in Norway, a number of people who haven't experienced it will make a point of claiming it and undermining that relationship. In fact, I believe that what is happening right now, and has always happened in the administration of foreigners, is that when we have a public debate, when we have access to knowledge, and when we know that we have regulations at the hearing, you start to change practice. And so there has been a change in practice over the last two or three years within UNE and UDI in relation to the concept of gender-based persecution. That is why more people are now receiving asylum. And it's like when we've had a regular review like, for example, points out where the errors can lie, and where you are not sensitive enough, so learns about it from the foreign administration. This means that when the regulations are completed and brought into force, there is no revolution because of this, because this gradual change, and not least the change in treatment in the interview situation, has already entered into force. I agree that it is not just a matter of having knowledge of gender-based persecution. It's a very important point to have knowledge of ethnic relationships and conflicts. The farther away from the global picture the conflict is, the harder it is to have knowledge of it. It's a challenge throughout the refugee work. I agree that it takes longer to deal with asylum cases from some countries than from others. We're going to have to include that every time we shout out loud about how fast things are going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e333	That is when the debate is on case No. I'm done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e351	There's a lot of evidence that the government is weakening. The conclusion of the municipal and county elections in the autumn was worryingly low. It is therefore necessary to turn all the stones to see what can help to re-establish our most fundamental value, namely democracy. We never have to take it for granted. Anything taken for given will pass quickly. The left has a basic belief in humans. So we don't think a low turnout is because people are dumber than before, they don't know their own best, or they're less interested in society. It has not been said that we should not make demands on the citizens of a democracy, that we should ignore the need for an informed, critical debate, or that we should forget concepts such as 'citizen information' and 'citizen duty'. But the fundamental causes of low electoral participation and weakened legitimacy must be found elsewhere than in the claim of a "maturity" people who no longer care more than their own nose tip. It is about reducing the political space for action, so that it no longer feels as important as who or which parties sit in local government and county councils, yes, perhaps also in big and in government. The power investigation paid great attention to this. Technological development and the need for a more efficient public sector have made it necessary to modernise and develop more and more. Globalisation and increased competition offer different framework conditions than before, and the public cannot maintain monopolies that were previously regarded as maritime. It is no longer in the interests of citizens or the community. Competition and private offers are positive and do not threaten well-being as long as political responsibility is clear, rather opposite. In this context, allegations of ‘market thinking’ and ‘market forces’ often become very little informative, and appear as socialist conservatives to mantra that everything was better under Gerhardsen. The concepts are obfuscating because they are used very unexplainedly. For liberals, it is therefore important to address the debate more radically and with a high level of precision and ask what is actually serving the individual and the community, and how society should be governed by elected representatives in an enlightened democracy under new external circumstances. Every citizen belongs in a community, and that's where life goes. It is where the public services are provided, and that is where the basis for democratic participation and engagement is laid. If local policy interests are weakened, it may also be weakened at other levels. If voting in local elections is considered pointless, national elections may also lose out and legitimacy. That's why this is a problem that there's reason to take seriously, which most parties verbally seem to agree with. The left has proposed to appoint a cross-political commission to address these challenges, and we hope to get broad support for this. Nor should we give the impression that we have all the answers in advance, but we can point out some factors that, in the view of the Left, are important. The most important – as we see it – is the need for national policies to bring together reforms, which have been put on track in the service of many good things. In all major sectors, such strengths – older reforms, the reform of the HVPU, school reforms and forms of kindergarten – come to the crisis centres, which we debated here yesterday. All the reforms express the will to improve society and the lives of individuals and are fully justified. However, we need to ask questions about whether the reforms are being implemented in the right way and which they provide the best possible results. The need to demonstrate national action, together with the fear that municipalities will choose different solutions, has led municipalities into the coercion that many of them are now in, and that the reforms are underfunded, but equally because they bind local communities to rational resource use and distort local priorities. A municipality that has made a hit in the school sector does not need a new school reform, but free resources to invest in other areas, where the need may be greater. Instead, instead of losing money, additional funds are allocated to an already priority area, while other sectors do not get the promise that they should have received from local assessments. The reformer here in the house often punishes local politicians who prioritize locally, by refusing them packages, from which local politicians who just let things go, get the full benefit. Politicians who maintain schools do not receive favourable loans from school packages. Politicians who have exclusive rights do not get exclusive packages, etc. etc. Therefore, the Left wants more than the government parties to take their own rhetoric about greater local freedom seriously and to take a thorough maritime critical settlement with the state reformer and detailed management. We want more freedom and more responsibility at local level. Another important factor that deserves renewed attention is the way municipalities organise their activities. It has been a time to streamline the local political system in a way that weakens policy and strengthens the administrative approach to local democracy. For the left, citizens are primarily citizens, not clients or clients. They are users of municipal services, but also the head of the community that the municipality is. If the municipality is reduced to an enterprise or an administrative service provider and the political governance bodies at the level of the local government disappear, the municipality becomes less and less an arena of engagement and priorities and more and more a shop, where dissatisfaction is addressed as in a customer relationship with rights laws and lawyers rather than in order to solve the tasks through political representation, open and free debate and political choices. It will never ever be such that a municipality will have enough money, so that you can say yes to any claim at any time. Basic rights shall be granted to all — to school, minimum living, care during illness, etc. In particular, rights laws are important for people who cannot promote their own interests. But the rights can never remove responsibility for the prioritisation of scarce resources and for the use of common sense and propriety towards their fellow human beings. We are in danger of developing a new government, where power is delegated, while responsibility remains with powerless politicians. The left was founded for the fight against the official state, and that is why this fight is important to us today. The government of the left has, in its own opinion, asked the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to look at the implementation of the year’s elections to see if there are fields that can be accommodated for higher turnouts. Other factors may also be significant. But it's important that this becomes not just a short and superficial exchange of views on a Friday in the Grand Duchy, but a thorough dive in the prerequisites for taking care of and further developing the most basic factor we have in developing society and taking care of people and values, namely the People's Rule. Therefore, I hope that this may be the recording of the Commission that the Left has proposed, and that I understand that the Government can also plan to contribute. Finally, I would like to mention one aspect of our rule of law that is rarely mentioned in this type of debate, namely voluntary Norway. The third sector is often seen only as a welfare producer and a public contractor, but the role of volunteering in Norway has been closely linked to party, democracy, local networks, local candidates and local solutions. The way into the parties, which are also non-governmental organisations, has historically always passed through the voluntary organisations. The good rapporteur or the good representative of the magnification has most often gone through the voluntary organisations. If we are to build on local democracy that also engages people on local issues, we must strengthen the third sector, have an active policy towards voluntary Norway and not view them as service producers for public Norway, but also as important building blocks in our democracy. The vote in this year's elections shows the wrong direction for our democracy. There must also be a debate here in the national Parliament. That debate must not be influenced by electoral techniques. The Norwegian people are not programmable, and they are not stupid. They vote for people they feel have power. Bad election participation undermines our entire rule of the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e385	We've probably left a local choice behind. It's probably a local election with decreasing electoral power and with expressed concern for the future of local democracy, which is represented here in the interplay of the representative, Skei Grande. There have been many discussions about what the cause might be. I believe that the ever stronger state governance of the local government sector is an important indirect reason for the decline in participation in local elections. Municipalities experience detailed management, designation, minimum standards and manning standards. Government governance is taking place to an extent that, at my discretion, is completely unjustified. We know the result of this. The state and the Storting increase its power at the expense of local democracy. The role of local governments and elected local people is being reduced. The most important thing may not be that this makes it less attractive to be a local politician, nor does it make it less attractive to be a local picker. When central political authorities, the Government and the Stortinget show such strong governance, no one should be surprised that it also does something about electoral participation, namely that it continues to sink. The government is concerned about the development of local democracy, and we want to do something about it. We are of the opinion that there is a need for a change in the system in Norway, leading to an increase in the power of local democracy, and that voters feel that voting in local elections is a significant act. The government has been engaged in a strengthened local democracy throughout its period of operation. At the latest in our municipal proposal, we proposed a number of measures: increase in free revenues, simplification and reduction of legislation, reporting requirements and minor designation requirements – all in order to give municipalities more freedom of movement. It becomes more important to participate in elections if it becomes apparent that local populace have the right and the ability to make priorities that matter to people's everyday lives. If not, I can see that people are sitting at home on the sofa and think this is something of special interest. In its investigation, the Electoral Commission stresses that Electoral Participation is a complex phenomenon. Research shows that citizens have great general confidence in representative democracy. At the same time, politicians are meeting high and partly new expectations. Citizens have had a different relationship with the parties than they had before. They're more critical. They take their stand on an independent basis. When the voters do not feel belonging to the parties, the desire to vote decreases. Not surprisingly, the Electoral Commission concluded that it is difficult to point out concrete measures that can contribute to overall increased electoral participation. But they say something that we politicians should notice. They write: ‘It is positive in the picture that the policy itself appears to be the factor that has the greatest impact on electoral participation. For the political parties, the challenge is therefore to develop policies that respond to today’s challenges.’ The investigation of power and democracy points to much of the same thing. I think we have to realize that there is no simple grip the government can take to increase the turnout. Nor can the challenge be addressed to the Government alone. It must go to all the politicians and to all the political parties. And in terms of local policy, we, as national politicians, have a special responsibility. We must not crush the local politicians. We have to give them frameworks that enable them to develop a policy that responds to today's challenges, and that, therefore, the voters will see as significant. I think we have an opportunity to revitalise local policy. We have an opportunity to restore power and authority to the local plane. If we are to cope with this, we must have it as a deliberate act in the legislation relating to all sectors for which the municipality is responsible. The government started this with its proposals in the municipal proposition, and I think it is looked for on behalf of local democracy that the majority did not want to give the municipality as much freedom of action as the government proposed. Nevertheless, we have achieved a number of changes, and a majority for them, not least in the school sector, which will help local democracy to have a greater impact on the school system, and that local politicians also need to develop more local school policies than has been the case so far. Greater freedom gives greater local space for action and, of course, local responsibility to voters. I would also like to point out that the Government, by letter to the Municipal Committee, has supported the Left's proposal for a local democracy commission. But we suggest that it is in line with the role-sharing principles of power-allocation – that it is the Government that should establish such a Commission in accordance with the principles we normally set up commissions of this type, namely with representatives of the political parties, the local authorities and some independent experts. It is now up to the Storing to agree that this will happen, and not least to agree to strengthen local democracy through practical action. My purpose – I have to be honest from here – to get such a local democracy commission would have been to get a national settlement just about local democracy, at least wide enough to keep above sector interests, and that as politicians we take responsibility for the fact that it is not the sector interests that should govern the development of local democracy, but that as politicians we have governance in terms of the breadth and the ability to give local democracy more real content. However, when we talk about the uprising of local democracy, it is important not just to discuss electoral participation. Local democracy is also about the organisation of municipalities for day-to-day interaction and communication, between elections. Local democracy is about feedback, citizens and users in the municipality. Here it actually happens a lot positive. An increasing number of residents are active and communicate with their municipality in some way. New technology offers new opportunities. The opening up of local democracy takes new paths. Municipalities must be careful to exploit this commitment to create debate and dialogue on local issues. As I said, participation in elections is a complex question. Despite many complexities, I will not deny that participation in elections, at least on the margin, can have a connection with how well the offer is facilitated for the voters. Good availability is important both in advance and on the election day. When it comes to prior polling, I think the municipalities deserve commendation for good organisation. The number of pre-sented votes was considerably higher this year than in 1995, when the municipalities were last responsible for the receipt of pre-senting votes. However, municipalities can be encouraged to keep a few more premises open for prior polling than was the case this year. Someone has responded that access to voting at the Post Office was not present this year. The entry has been and will continue to be in transition and the number of post offices has decreased significantly since 1999. However, there is nothing to prevent the municipalities from agreeing with the Post on the implementation of ex ante voting where this is appropriate. With regard to the extent to which municipalities should organise on the election day, it is close to drawing the core of the rationale for local self-government, namely that it is up to the municipalities themselves to assess local needs. It is those who know the inhabitants and their life-forms, for example. commuting ratio, best. It would be paradoxical if a debate on how to strengthen the integration of local self-government should conclude that municipalities are not able to make these types of assessments on behalf of the municipality's citizens. I think we should be careful about drawing hasty ends and looking for standard solutions. I think we need to look into whether the legislation places unnecessary obstacles to optimum organisation. Can it be, for example, assess whether to do something with the deadline to vote in advance? It is possible that different deadlines should apply within and outside the municipality in which you are registered. Perhaps more municipalities should also consider holding two-day elections. However, such measures will lead to a substantial increase in costs, particularly in the large municipalities. The election this year was carried out under the new electoral law adopted by the Stortinget in the summer of 2002. The new electoral law reversed many routines both for the voters and for the electorate. The technical implementation of the year’s choices has been the subject of some critical comments. I'll say a few words about it and about our follow-up to those objections. As mentioned above, the year’s selection for some major conversions in the used routines meant: It was not like before access to vote at the Post Office. The timing of the prior polling was deferred. No envelope should be used on election day. There were new rules to correct the ballot. The maximum permissible opening time for the constituencies was reduced from 0 p.m. From 21 to 21 o'clock 20. In total, there were several, relatively significant conversions, conversions that directly affected the very large and heterogeneous assembly of the voters of a country. It would have been unrealistic, in my view, to believe that this kind of change could be implemented without any faults or problems. There is reason to expect that the voters and local election authorities have learned from the experience of the year and that implementation in 2005 will be significantly better, simply because people know the new rules. Nevertheless, we see reason to look at a number of things related to the implementation of the election. The voters should feel comfortable with the way we make a choice. They shall be able to leave the polling room with the assurance that the choice will be implemented in accordance with the legislation. When voters express dissatisfaction, it should be taken seriously. But we have not received any more complaints about the election than is usual. The Ministry has made a plan to follow up and analyse the experience of the election. We come back to Stortinget with our recommendations in good time before the next elections. Some of these will probably lead to changes in law and regulation, because we can see that there is a need to do things a little bit differently and to have a little stronger control than what has been in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e449	I am very pleased with the answer given by the Council of State. It is good that the Council of States also understands that this is not just a simple system where you can just do some simple action, but that it is actually the very foundation of our democracy we are discussing. As far as this Commission is concerned, I am very pleased with what the Council of State said. It's important that this becomes a traditional commission where you're talking about forming a whole foundation for all the parties based on the least common multiple that we agree on in terms of local democracy. I am also pleased that the Council of State will look at the electoral system itself. Before I went into the hall here, I met a school class from VK2 at Fagerborg in the laying room. I asked them what it would take for more young people to vote. They gave four main points: More information – let us understand the whole and what politicians stand for. Let the youth parties be strengthened. Let the politicians do what they promise. Let the school debates be more serious. There was no one who mentioned voting by SMS or longer opening hours at the polls, but that there are actually big, fundamental things that determine the youth's turnout. When we as politicians have so many information channels to contribute, it is also frustrating when you feel that you are more involved in the branding of programme managers than you are in general public information about what you stand for. So our whole system has to look at the challenge of low turnout. It's not just through the electoral law that we influence election participation, it's throughout the way we conduct debate, and the whole way we run the political craft in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e473	I would like to say that I think many young people are quite reasonable when they comment on why they have not voted, that it is precisely because they have not understood what the politicians stand for. They haven't seen the dividing lines, and they've kind of gotten a little distance from the entertainment element in Norwegian politics. I think we should take inwards the signals that come from many, especially when considered in relation to the entertainment value of an electoral programme, rather than in relation to the political content and the political issues. I was a candidate and received a vote in favour of the year when the age of authority was lowered from 20 to 18 years. So I got a vote and became a candidate because the age of authority was lowered. Then I attended my first school debates. I actually have to say that I think Norwegian programme debates at the moment, on TV and elsewhere, are now at a lower level than the school debates were in 1979 and 1981, both in terms of jokes, in relation to characterizations and in relation to not addressing basic questions. I think that's what politicians are going to do to us. We don't communicate completely. We're so busy selling the image of the different political parties and slogans that I feel that we don't give people answers to what we stand for. Of course, it can be convenient for many parties not to do so and obscure choices that are necessary to make in our society. In relation to local democracy, however, I feel that this is not the main problem. Now we've had a local election, and in terms of voting participation related to it, I think first of all, the main challenge is that local democracy doesn't feel there's room for making real choices. It may, as some may say, have to do with money, but very much is also due to the fact that developing other types of politicians, politicians who find local solutions, is shut down by the way the state governs in detail. Therefore, it is important to think through how we are going to make changes to the government of the state, if we are concerned that democracy is actually going to matter. Many people perceive that this is a discussion about local democracy and local politicians. It should be fun to be a local politician. I believe that it is synonymous with having an effective welfare delivery, having effective municipalities, actually having more local democracy. User-adapted and individualised schemes will be better if local democracy takes responsibility for them than if the state should sit and create A4 solutions and regulatory solutions. The opposite, in terms of user interests and local democracy, I think is wrong. In fact, I believe that local democracy is closer to the inhabitants and therefore also closer to the users of the services.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e484	As the Council of State said, the Stortinget changed the electoral law in a number of areas just before the last municipal elections. These changes took place in the light of the studies carried out by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, such as: aimed at increasing the turnout. Now we are aware that the Council of State has started work on evaluating the consequences of these changes, including: whether they have had any impact on the turnout, to the extent that it is possible to measure it. We also know that some relevant institutes at our universities are now involved in the same type of studies. We look forward to the results of these evaluations. And if it turns out that the Council of State is inviting certain changes to the electoral law, I am quite convinced that the Storting will be willing to look at this for its part. At the last municipal elections, as the interpellant said, the turnout was lower than in a very long time. Elections in municipal elections have fallen at each and every election except for one in the post-war years. The same trend occurs in very many other countries, especially in Western democracies. Why you stop using the voting rights is not easy to establish, but a possible reason might be that people think it has no meaning who sits on municipal boards. It is said in this way that they will only manage the provisions of the Storting and the Government. Although this is a strong exaggeration, it obviously has a twist of truth in it. The State shall give the overall provisions, while local democracy itself shall design its activities freely within the framework provided by the State. The tighter these state frameworks become, the less the ability of local democracies to shape their activities. So it might be interesting to see if it's such that if local democracy gets a little bit bigger, we're going to get more involved in local democracy. But it can also be thought that as politicians through our debates, we are less good at informing the voters about our own policies than we ourselves want to believe. To make a choice, we need clear alternatives to choose from. The political environment must also see its responsibility in providing factual and complete information on the policy options available. A further weakening of electoral participation will weaken our democracy in a way that is impossible to restore if it first happens. I think that we all need to lift in order to prevent this happening in all the areas we see the opportunity to make an effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e495	Like the inter-pellant, Trine Skei Grande, I would like to express my concern for the future of local democracy. It is, as the interpellant quite rightly points out, the pillar of the National People's Government, and I am pleased that the Government, as the Council of State just expressed it, also shares this concern, while actively wanting to do something about this development. There is a need for a change in the system in Norway to increase the power of local democracy and for voters to feel that the use of voting rights is significant. I'll give the Council of State Erna Solberg honor because she, and the Government, has, throughout her term of office, actually been concerned with strengthening local democracy. This is what we saw at the latest during the discussion of the municipal proposal before the summer, where proposals were made for a number of measures. This has been done, among other things: to increase the free revenues, simplification and reduction of legislation and reporting, and minor designation. All of this will mean that the municipalities get a freer leeway, and once again it will be an incentive that it will be more interesting to participate in elections. It just becomes more visible that local populace have the right, and real opportunities, to make priorities that matter to people's everyday lives. Now it's a little bit of a joke that the worst thing that politicians know is to have priority, but it's at the same time what creates commitment and participation. I would also like to point out that local democracy is about practical aspects such as the organisation of interaction and communication between citizens and local authorities. There are many municipalities that have used today's latest technology and experience that they can speak with their inhabitants virtually 24 hours a day. For me, then, the key chords in this are that the municipalities still have too strict state regulations and too little room for action. Different communities have different challenges and different compositions of the population. For the Right, it is therefore absolutely central that each municipality is given greater freedom to prioritize between the tasks without excessive overarching by the central authorities. We must dry out allowing increased municipal freedom and more local initiative. It will also ensure that municipalities can provide services of good quality and with an accessibility tailored to individual needs. In other words, the challenges in the municipal sector cannot be solved alone through increased state transfers, but must be combined with other instruments that strengthen local democracy and increase the urban space for action. It was perhaps one of the most important experiences I did as a local politician. With greater freedom, municipalities will be more able to target their efforts towards their citizens. They will be able to do more problems and get more for the money. Much of that particular challenge lies with us here on the Stortinget. We have to give local elected representatives a more real opportunity to prioritize. That's what we, as big-time politicians, have to take over, and let the municipalities themselves have that space of action. I think that will strengthen local democracy and increase the interest in participating in local elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e504	Increased political involvement in the population is about two things: trust and availability. I'll take the first, which I think is the most important, and that's trust. I think the most important thing about building trust in people is that there's a relationship between what we say and what we do. That's where I think there's a big difference between the parties. There's too much difference in what's said in Stortinget, and what's said in local government, by the same parties. I think that some of the greatest mistrust that was seen in local democracy, for example. goes on some of the things that today’s Business today, where the Minister of Local Affairs is not cheering over the 2 billion DKK that the local government sector has received. On the contrary, she points out that in the municipal sector there are people who don't manage money, who don't want to privatize and put out competition, who don't want to merge. She believes that this is the right thing to do, and that they should be forced to do so by economic constraints. Yes, for me, trusting in local democracy is not – in no way! In addition to that, over the six years I have been sitting on the Stortinget, I have met a long stream of local politicians, including from the Right and from other government parties, who point out that the problem now is that there is too little resources to carry out the important tasks that people want them to do. I am happy to meet a single person who has not been a politician, who is concerned about whether a subsidy to the local government sector is earmarked or not. I can argue politically and systematically for why we should relax on this, but if we are not concerned about what people are asking for, and make sure that it becomes possible, it is totally uninteresting to people whether a grant is earmarked or not. When, as a political project, those who run now have to weaken politics, it's not so strange that people answer that by saying that we won't vote. More and more, leaving the market on the important welfare basis in life is intended to mean that this will take over the market. Then you have to act as a customer, and then you have to be alone as a customer and look for yourself. This isn't hanging out in the jump. So to this with availability. I also think that accessibility to be able to vote is important. If you ask people why they haven't voted, there's probably different reasons for that. Some of them we might think are a little weird, but I think we're going to take this seriously. We're going to make it much easier for people to vote, and we're going to make it much easier for young people to vote as well. Municipalities must take it seriously and ensure that both pre-voting and voting in the polling room are much easier.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e517	It is an important debate we have in Stortinget today. It's a debate that may not get the temperature so high among people, but it affects the very basis of the system we represent. In Christian-democratic thinking, it is a fundamental principle that decisions should be taken as closely as possible to those to which the decisions relate. It is also desirable that as many as possible of those subject to the decision are actually included in the decision-making process. This requires an active autonomy, both at local and regional level. As the Council of State touches on in its response to the interpellant, such a principle of subsidiarity comes into conflict with some of what is happening from a central political point of view. In the last ten years, the demands for service levels and staffing in people's everyday lives have increased considerably. It is a fact that many tasks previously performed in the private and voluntary sphere must now be carried out by the public. This calls for equivalent offers across the country, a requirement that central authorities have met through designation, minimum standards and a wide range of reforms. This process has gradually shifted power from municipality to state and mass. We need to give the municipalities greater confidence that they too are able to design valuable and good offers for their inhabitants. Local politicians need to be made visible precisely through the political choices they make in their arena, so that citizens actually have to influence the development of their municipality. For this government, the increase in free revenues, minor earmarking, simplification and legislative reduction, as well as simplified reporting are important measures. At the same time, it must be emphasised that the primary and demanding tasks will continue to exist in the municipalities, even if part of the detailed governance of the state is reduced. It is therefore essential that municipalities are guaranteed the financial framework in order to carry out the tasks that citizens today perceive as primary. Politics can often be seen as a game seen from the outside. This is a challenge for democracy as a whole. As politicians, we must take responsibility for this at all levels. In this way, I believe that this year's budgeting process in Stortinget is very positive. Cleanness and clear lines of work give a signal that this house too prioritises the good solutions rather than internal games. If we are to be able to revitalize local democracy, the voters must be put in the centre. The voters are the real owners of the political processes, and between elections and election processes, voters must see that their efforts actually have political consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e530	Both the distribution of power and the election resolution in the autumn give cause for reflection. There are now two proposals in the Municipal Committee that will allow reflection on what is needed to strengthen local democracy. On 3 October the Central Party put forward a proposal for the establishment of a local democratic idea selection, and on 14 October the Left put forward proposals for a Commission for local democracy. In both fall and in the many torches for maternity wards and local hospitals there was a problem of trust. There has to be a match between what the individual says in an election fight and what we do afterwards. When the government, prior to the election campaign, promised the lift of the times for the municipal economy, it is not the newly elected municipal government representative who now sees them sitting with their cut. When many population representatives promise good and equivalent health services across the country, it is wrong to remove the popular local regional level that led to dialogue with the population to make it possible. And when the state politicians of these days are responsible for regional development, a good supply before the continuing school, culture, and they don't have any means at all, and they're still getting suffocated by the government council, it's also about trust. The centre party thinks that in a discussion that this is also home to look at what area of society deregulation and privatization has now gone too far and is therefore also involved in creating extra amputation locally. Mail, telecommunications and stream are just three of several examples. The EU system's predestination, its amputation and the distance from decisions, and the fact that one is free from democratic influence in many cases, say something of the same thing. It is promising that there is a Left-Representative who is now asking a Right-State Council about what can be done. The central party's advice is: Let's expand the horizon. Let's look at the conditions for voluntary organisations, the consistency between funds and tasks in the municipal sector, and in what area now needs to correct the market in terms of deregulation and privatisation. Let us highlight the debate in addition to the ear-marking of a few hundred million dollars and to the misunderstanding that exists today between a rich state and a poor municipal sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e543	It is a deeply regrettable fact that electoral selection is too low. The tendency is very negative. Election is now at an historic low point, and it is falling downwards. She has done so since 1963, with the only exception, in 1983. Forty years ago, eight out of ten voters voted. Now the selection is dramatically lower. There is a particular reason to be concerned about the failure of the first time selections when the selection opens. In 1999, one of three first-time voters used their voting rights, and there is little reason to believe that the image was more positive earlier in the fall. I think there's a lot of reasons for that. I want to distinguish between practical reasons and more policy reasons. When it comes to the practical reasons, I would like to stress that it has become harder to vote than it has been before. Previously, a few voices could be heard at the Post Office. Now it's no longer like this. One can get a preview in fewer places than before. It also has a negative impact. In many municipalities, the opening time of the polling rooms has been shorter than it was before. Changing rules and changes in practical organisation may lead to confusion. This may lead to the perception that there are new obstacles, such as the need for fewer people to use their voting rights. We have to look at this critically. When it comes to the political causes, I think it must be a crossroads for us politicians that we have to be more good at getting the political options, not drowning in detail, when we debate politics, whether it's in the national assembly, in the county council or in the local government. We've got a society that has seen more than before the search for problems in society, with growing unemployment, greater social problems for many and, not least, a municipal poverty. This also creates a solution to power, and it leads in the next round to the passivity of many of the voters. I would like to point out that today it is such that the municipalities do not get the money they need, in order to solve the problems that the government has decided to solve. This is particularly true in schools and care for the elderly. Today, unfortunately, it is a fact that 106 municipalities, almost 25 pst. by our municipalities, are the blacklist of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs because of poor financial control. Finally, we must not have a situation where the regional state bureaucracy can actually have a superior function towards the local authorities. It creates a demise and a lower turnout in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e557	For a longer time, we have experienced a steadily decreasing turnout in local elections. Some of the same trend we have seen in decision-making, although the turnout here is clearly higher. In my opinion, the Minister of Local Affairs gave a fairly precise analysis of the main reason why participation in local elections has been declining over a number of years: state detail management reduces the room for manoeuvre of local politicians and makes it less interesting to be a choice. At the same time, it is important to recognise, as the Council of State did, that electoral participation is a complex phenomenon, and that there are no simple interventions that quickly bring electoral participation to a higher level. However, a good start would be if the bulk of the population would make words of action and end up with the Government's proposal to give municipalities much greater freedom of action. Of course, it's not like it's either the Government, the Biggest or the local politicians who each sit on the key to better electoral participation. The government has an important job to do by consistently promoting proposals that contribute to greater local freedom of action, the majority of the population by consistently failing to take decisions that go in the opposite direction, and, of course, local politicians themselves also have an important role to play. The Minister of Local Affairs quoted in his post an excerpt from the suspension of the Electoral Committee: ‘It is positive in the picture that the policy itself appears to be the factor that has the greatest impact on electoral participation. For the political parties, the challenge is therefore to develop policies that respond to today’s challenges.’ I agree with the heart that ‘policy in itself’ is the factor that has the greatest impact on electoral participation. Then there will also be a relevant question of local politicians and parties’ ability to bring about differences between the parties, through the election campaign and in the political everyday life. I don't think so, and the reasons are far more than lack of money. In many municipalities in the country, what the different parties represent may seem rather unclear. In many municipalities, the ‘Communic Party’ rules, where there are rarely or never conflicts between the parties. In large parts of Kommune-Norway, the political culture is characterised by consensus, harmony and aversion to conflict and disagreement. Then it might not be surprising that the voters have great problems separating the parties, and that walking and voting are perceived as irrelevant and uninteresting. But the picture is quite complex. It's interesting to note that the turnout actually went up in 131 municipalities. There is reason to believe that in many of these municipalities the political dividing lines appeared to be clearer for the voters, and that the voters there actually felt that it was important to go and vote. I do not think this point should be overlooked in the debate on electoral participation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e579	It was said by the interpellant that one should have faith in man, that political responsibility is too unclear today, and that the 'third sector' is important for democracy. All of this I agree with the heart. But when I hear the polite exchange between the government comrades in the Right and Left here, I get a picture in my head of two sitting in a glass house and throwing stone. That's how we manage local democracy, how we manage democracy here on the Storting, which is the most important thing to decide the turnout. I want to add a little visit to the Oslo elections. We had a election campaign where the Left Party went to the elections on collective traffic, collective traffic, collective traffic, and where point 4 was: we're not going to have anything to do with the Progress Party. It was a clear and clear message, which I also thought was very clear. No one in Oslo should be in doubt that it was the most important thing for the Left in the election campaign. Then we experience a constitution in Oslo that takes time, which is difficult, and where it is negotiated back and forth. The end of the show is that the clear and clear Left Party in Oslo votes in favour of the Progress Party's Peter N. Myhre as a transport and environmental agency in Oslo. So Oslo has got a transport agency that doesn't believe in the greenhouse effect, and it's the party that's worked the most for public transport, Left, that's put him in. Is there a wise way to manage local democracy? Oslo is full of frustrated Left voters who say they did not vote in the Progress Party. No, they didn't. They've never voted for Peter N. Myhre. Oslo is also full of frustrated Right-vowers who have never voted for Kjell Magne Bondevik. We have to explain what we're doing, and then make sure that there's a relationship between word and action in a completely different way from what we've experienced lately. It's about clarity, and it's about taking responsibility. Left had a choice in Oslo. The left had a choice where they could have met their wishes 100 pst. – an absolute no to the Progress Party, and they had got a lot more back to public transport. That's what they promised the voters. They didn't keep it. I think we're going to have to look at ourselves in this context. In the end, I will tell you about the last day before the municipal elections, when I went on a trip to Marka. When I came down to Greenland station, I was met by a poster saying: Tax — something socialists and pirates are concerned about. Say hello to Oslo Right. It was hardly a force for local democracy either.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e596	I have just a small remark to Heidi Sørensen, who believes that Oslo is full of Left-Choosers. We'll find them. But it is clear that her knowledge of local politics is not so great, because in Oslo it is not elected city council. The City Council continues as it was before. We're thrown out of the city council, just like that. If we're going to get massively back on public transport with Rune Gerhardsen, then he's changed a lot of tactics from the last time he had the power. What really provoked me the most, was probably Karin Andersen's posts, where she talked about trust, and that there should be a connection between what politicians say and what they do. And here all of the games make mistakes, except SV. It was fascinating. On Sunday at his national meeting, SV decided to fight for local democracy. Local democracy would have more power and more opportunities to influence. On the next Monday, there was a bad report about a case at an elderly centre in a municipality outside Oslo. There was no mention of more than an hour between the SV’s decision at the national meeting and that they should have minimum standards in the care of the elderly. So it wasn't more than hours before you broke what you really meant. You talk about political contempt, and that's how you grow it. The power investigation is very clear on who are the centralist parties here. I've never met a municipal politician who wants ear tagging. They don't, because they actually think they're not stupid, and that they're going to manage the priorities. I have a small example from a municipality I know. We adopted an old-room reform here in this Chamber. It was nice, with many fine rules about how these old rooms were supposed to be. A municipality with the Left rapporteur concluded that it actually paid off for the municipality to move eight walls 60 cm to satisfy this hall's demands for what an exclusive room was. No one in the municipality got better. That was 60 centimeters more in some room, but I think a lot of people might have gotten better using this money in a lot of other ways. Nevertheless, it paid off for the municipality because it had adopted a grant scheme for it. We assume, of course, that our local politicians will not want to give exclusive space to their older people. That's what's the starting point here in the hall when we adopt just such reforms. I think people care. I think people have an intense desire to have a good municipality. We can look at the hospital reform. There we have the people and the streets to get the politicians back to the government. You want to get away from the group models and back to the People's Government, back to people you can meet at Rimi the next day and cut them out when they've done something stupid. But we are taking more and more power, and our rapporteur must stand on Rimi and explain why eight walls are being moved 60 cm. That's not a good explanation for that. And it is we who make these rules that take confidence away from the local politicians and make them less able to influence how their municipality is going to be. That's what we're undermining here all the time, and if we don't get a real revolution for local democracy, we can just forget election participation, and we can forget to get good solutions here in the hall. When it comes to trust, it's about explaining people you meet, why you've made different choices. Local politicians can do it if they have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e609	There are actually three themes that remain in this debate. One is the question of local democracy, which is a local choice behind it, and electoral participation related to it. This is an important discussion, and we must respect the responsibility of local politicians. We can do that both in a discussion of what the tasks of local democracy are, and what national controls we're going to have. I think it's a little weird if local democracy is defined as I experienced Karin Andersen and Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa did, like a checkbook democracy, where you have to sit and print money to everyone who asks for it, because you have to meet all expectations. An important part of democracy when it comes to the political role is to be involved in the discussion of what we need to meet our society with of long-term challenges. And I'm sorry, because usually I have a lot of respect for Karin Andersen's analysis and insight into many things, but today I don't think she hit either the plank or anything else. What’s in the interview in Today’s Business is that I stress that the need for change is still there. If there had been an opportunity to respond further in this debate, I would have really wanted to say that SV has to start talking soon about how to provide the workforce that will do the jobs in the care of the elderly in the years to come, if it is not to go at the expense of competitive business. We're not going to have any changes in the public sector, and we're not going to have any changes in protected sectors. The sum of the policies we sometimes have to discuss, and then maybe Karin Andersen and SV will also have to come up with other answers than the answers they usually provide. Every time we point out that many individual decisions have been made which have meant that the growth has not come, which has resulted in no revenue being distributed beyond that checkbook, they say it is unprofessional. It won't discuss SV because it's unprofessional. I actually think it's pretty serious to have a perspective beyond that. Then I fully agree that the choices of who you work with in the municipalities can give a lot of strange results. I am absolutely sure that the Right voters in Mo i Rana did not really vote on the Right to get Inge Myrvoll as rapporteur, when we went in cooperation with SV there. But it could be that they thought that Right, that they didn't think it was so good to cooperate with the Workers' Party and other parties, and that they might live well with Inge Myrvoll. It is also part of local democracy, that there will be slightly different solutions if we agree on the political platform. And when it's said that property tax is not a theme for local democracy, from a party that actually believes that even more taxes should be optional in the municipalities, I think it's strange. I just think that the Right focused on tax as part of the discussion in the local government in Oslo. It's actually responsible for making property tax decisions, it's an important part of the local democratic debate. That our discussion and our posters were more frequent than what SV's statements usually are, I think will be assessed very differently with different eyes, whether you're an SV politician or whether you're a Right politician. [[The President clubs.]] President, let me just say that the important thing is that we take this discussion further. The government has agreed with the proposal that exists, which I believe is the essence of the proposals of both the Central Party and the Left, namely on a local democracy commission. Maybe we can create a platform that makes not everyone sitting in the trenches after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e624	It is, as you know, not an opportunity to take a line in an interpellation debate, but I expect the debate to continue in other contexts. That is when the debate is on case No. Two over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e640	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e649	This case concerns the fact that the Stortinget gave the Government the possibility by regulation to extend the period of 26 weeks before the employer's payroll obligation re-enters for those who are on leave within certain industries, and to extend the period of entitlement to daily pay for those who are on leave, even within certain industries. The issue of changes to the legislation on laying down laying down laying down rules has been debated several times in this Chamber over the last two years. It was a general reduction from 52 to 26 weeks per week. 1 January 2002. And later, in the summer of 2002, a temporary law on transitional rules was passed. the asphalt industry. And last summer, in the context of the revised 2003 budget, the Stortinget decided to give the Government access to new extensions for particular industries, to extend from 26 weeks to 42 weeks before the employer re-emphasised his payroll. The Ministry thus obtained this mandate and made the extension until 1 November 2003, later prolonged until 1 January 2004. I would point out that at least the understanding of the Labour Party is that such a restriction in time as the Ministry provided, was never the meaning of Stortinget's side. The Labour Party believes that, in today's situation, the permitting regime should be extended from 26 weeks to 42 weeks for all industries, so that one avoids exemption rules. However, as you know, this will come back in connection with the treatment of the 2004 State budget, and also in connection with the treatment of Ot.prp. No 12 for 2003–2004. The proposal states that the Ministry considers that exemption rules for individual industries may be contrary to the EEA Agreement. I also refer to the branch of the Department of First Amanunensis Olav Kolstad at the University of Oslo. And then comes to the legal assessment of the ‘aid’ measure, which I know the EFTA Court has interpreted very much in the past. The professional conclusion of the distribution made by Kolstad states that an assumption is that the exemption rules for individual industries are contrary to the EEA Agreement. I would like to challenge the Council of State to take a further initiative to finally clarify this issue. Finally, I will fix a bug in the configuration. In the second column, the first line of the first paragraph, it says: ‘The Committee also points out that in June 2001...’ It shall be amended until 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e672	In June 2002, the Stortinget adopted a temporary law on transitional rules specifically designed to meet the needs of the asphalt industry. The reduction has subsequently decided to extend the period for some industries from 26 to 42 weeks before the employer’s obligation to pay returns. The Ministry has decided by regulation that this extension will apply until 1 November of this year. Later this Regulation has been extended to 1 January 2004. That's what this case is about, when we now grant 20 million. kr to follow up this extension. Questions have been asked in the Ministry's assessment that current legislation has been found to be in breach of the EEA Agreement. I would like to refer here to the letter of 17 November this year from Mr Victor Norman, Minister of Labour and Administration, where he refers to an investigation by Dr. Olav Kolstad of the Institute of Private Law at the University of Oslo. The conclusion of Kolstad is: ‘It must be presumed that, contrary to Article 61 of the EEA Agreement, employers in certain industries may be allowed to leave without compulsory remuneration for a longer period than other employers, where the entitled employees are entitled to receive daily benefits under the National Social Security Act.’. Furthermore, it is stated: ‘rules on the freedom to leave without pay which are equivalent for all industries may be contrary to Article 61 of the EEA Agreement if the effect of the rules is that some industries are de facto faced with a more favourable situation than other industries’. On this basis, the Government Parties agree that professional discrimination in the field of permitting legislation must be eliminated from 1 January 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e681	It is correct that this matter concerns appropriations resulting from changes to the legislation that was made in Stortinget in this case. But the political part of it is that one saw the need to make such changes because it was part of the business that came into a very difficult situation. Norway has for a long time had relatively rusty and liberal permitting legislation, which has been well-organised by the State. Of course, it's good for business. The rules have varied a little over time. But it is therefore possible to use these rules so that they are in favour of those sectors of the economy which are highly competitive and which, in times of poor performance, need to maintain skilled labour. Then we also have an opportunity to strengthen and maintain competence and not break it up by fluctuations. There have been questions about the Government's assessments in this matter, said Skovholt Gitmark in the previous article. Yes, it has been. Questions have been asked in the assessment that has been made, why it should now be right to remove this permit when it was right to have it this summer. There is nothing to suggest that at least parts of the workshop industry are in a better situation now. On the contrary, there are things that point to the opposite. Questions have also been raised in the assessments made in relation to the EEA Agreement's decisions and limitations in relation to this case. We're going to get back to that. But I just want to say what's basically important here. SV is in order to have a broad access to permitations when parts of the business that are exposed to competition need it, in situations where the economy is low, and especially because some societies and businesses are very vulnerable. So we're not interested in breaking them up, crumbling them up and moving them on. I'm kind of wondering if that's what the Government's agenda is, that one just wants to move the workforce, which you've talked about many times, and break up these good environments of competence, which are often in the districts. That's the consequence if we don't carry this on. The other relates to understanding and working on provisions of the EEA Agreement and how it affects us. We have just completed a difficult round in the case of the differentiated employer fee, which we also had to change as a consequence of the agreement and a judgment in the EFTA Court. But there has also been a strong trend in this government to interpret the law as a certain man interprets the Bible, and to look at the limitations and not the possibilities. I am very surprised that in a government that is attached to this legislation, almost systematically seems to want to interpret it so that it is to the detriment of Norway and industry. It's worrying, because here we are in a situation where we have to use the possibilities we have, so that we, as authorities, can also support under and help when there are problems. At the same time, I note that the government's policy is traditional Right Policy with general tax reliefs, which we know will go most to companies that go well, and to those that have a lot from before, while those who are exposed in such situations, of course will not be able to do so. I'm just recording that this seems to be a policy implemented by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e694	Permitting rules have been the subject of several debates in the United Kingdom in a short time. In connection with this matter, I thought it was very easy to reconstruct the following: The government of Stoltenberg presented proposals to reduce the period of daily allowance from 52 to 26 weeks in the context of the 2002 budget. The Committee agreed with that proposal. It was a bit of a surprise that the Labour Party made such a proposal, but there were no protests either from tradesmen or from any industry. However, the Committee wrote that developments had to be closely followed in order to assess the impact on different industries. It was also written in the setting that, if necessary, laws could be changed if the changes would lead to major negative consequences for the employees or if the unemployment rate would increase significantly. So it quickly became clear that there were more industries that had problems with the new rules. To this end, the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the SV and the Centre propose transitional arrangements to make the transition to a new regulatory framework more flexible and secure stability around the new regulatory framework. Then comes the 2003 state budget, and then the government is going to tighten up on the rules. It expands the employer's period, and it also tightens workers' relations. The central party voted against the government's proposals for tightening up then. Then comes the revised national budget for 2003. It becomes clear in relation to the unemployment situation that there is a need for further changes in the rules. There is a need to allow a longer period of leave in some industries in order to prevent companies in these industries from giving up people with valuable skills, who can disappear from the industry. Once again, the Workers' Party, SV, the Advance Party and the Centre Party are behind a proposal that industries within specific industries should be allowed to leave for more than 26 weeks. This was to be effective from 1 July. The government came up with its regulations not until July 16, when it became clear that one chose a proposal that was more strict than the majority in June had agreed. And then we'll see what's happening in connection with the 2004 budget. We're going to get back to that in a different context. I think that there are these issues about the permitting rules – including the promises we are making today – primarily tell the following: It is important to provide the opportunity for an enterprise to take care of skills at a difficult stage. It is important to provide financial security for the employees involved. It is alarming with a government that has such an arrogance with the Stortinget that it does not follow its plural decisions; it is a alarming lack of insight into both the unemployment situation, the many companies that want to maintain their own skills at a difficult stage; and to the many workers and the many local communities who want to protect people who have a special education or experience, and who want to secure them an economic base for a difficult period. The center party agrees that these 20 million. kr this autumn was probably using funds. But we want to ask the Council of State to show somewhat greater commitment to follow-up in relation to what the Storting decides, and to separate more insight into the unemployed in relation to their situation and the companies that wear out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e713	I don't think it's the feeling that might be missing, either in the Council of State or in the Government, or for that matter in the Storting. However, we must bear in mind that the legislation on permitting involves a very difficult balance. On the one hand, everyone – not least the Government – wants the business community in Norway to have good conditions, to have the opportunity to hold on to skills, and to help them when they are in difficulty. The business community also wants predictable framework conditions. Remember the last one. On the other hand, we also have to think a little bit about the unemployed. We have to remember that a person who has a permit is free without being able to do anything to help him. It's someone who's going out of work. In fact, all the other unemployed are not unemployed. They have a job – they are job seekers. But those who are licensed just go and wait. And the consideration of each of them, how long it is proper to go and wait, needs to be balanced against the concerns of the companies, which, of course, would like to have a back-up workforce to be able to draw on whether the times would be good again. This balance is difficult. The government of Stoltenberg and a unanimous biging came to the conclusion that it was right to set the limit for this balancing at 26 weeks. The government of Stoltenberg said at the time that it was a prerequisite that this should not be varied over the cyclical period. It was probably a reasonable thought, but the bulk of the population came before the summer vacation last year on another thought, which we accepted and bowed down to. I'm not going to go into that discussion, because it comes back to us in connection with the bill for next year, but I would like to remind you that the Government has entered into a budgetary settlement with the Workers' Party, which means that 42 weeks will be proposed for all industries. So short to Karin Andersen, who wondered if the government had an agenda. Of course the government has an agenda, but I understood her your way that she almost thought we had a hidden agenda. The government has no hidden calendar. We have an open agenda, which is to help people get back to work as quickly as possible and provide business with a framework that allows them to create jobs. Karin Andersen and others know exactly what policy we want to pursue to implement that agenda. The applicant's rapporteur raised the question of whether the possibility of exemption for individual industries was contrary to EEA rules. I agree with him that it is important to clarify this question. Now, I don't think you can get a final solution to this question until it might come up as an ESA case, and I'm not sure whether either big business or government necessarily wants it to be an ESA matter. But when it comes to dealing with the bill proposition for next year, probably the Storting will have the opportunity to come back to this. And we're going to look at what further clarifications we can get to this point before that treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e728	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e731	I had not actually intended to replicate this word change, but I was a little provoked when the Council of State drew up the proposal from the Stoltenberg government in 2001. What we need to remember is that there was a completely different situation in 2001. Today, there are twice as many unemployed people as there was at the time, so that there is essentially good reason to claim that there was a need to change the legislation. At the same time, I also agree with the Council of State that stability and sustainable framework conditions are important, both for those in the labour market and for those in the business world. Of course, you should think about the unemployed and get people back to work. But should not the Council of State also consider that it is valuable for the community and valuable for businesses to take care of the valuable competences that exist in the markets where fluctuations are high?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e740	I don't think there is any basis for the big disagreement between Uppøen Hansen and me in this matter. It is precisely the difficult balance between the desire to help people cross into other work and the desire to help businesses maintain environments of competence that make it possible for us to have legislation on permitting at all. If it had been the case that we didn't want to give the opportunity to preserve the environments of competence, there was no need to have a law on permitting. When we have 26, 42 or 52 weeks of leave, it's just a consequence of this balance, on the one hand, of wanting to help people over in other work and, on the other hand, of wanting to preserve jobs and environments. I also think I can fully agree with Upbeøen Hansen that there is not a fasitant response that says that 26 weeks or 42 weeks are correct. It's an assessment, a difficult balance. That's why we've also accepted an agreement with the Workers' Party, which means it's going to be 42 weeks until next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e747	Yesterday I received an e-mail from some company managers who asked if they had never been in the practical business business in the big business and government and understood the need for predictable rules. Now it had long been thought that the payment period might be increased to 30 days. It had suddenly become ten days instead of three, as it should have been. The period had been temporarily extended to 42 weeks, currently only until 1 July next year. The problem was that they had contracts that were concluded in March-April, and then the order books were empty. Now they had to decide if they should go to the lay-offs or cancellations. Many people have a six-month notice period, which makes it impossible to make arrangements for the future. Does the Council agree that there is a need for more predictable rules? And will he provide a thorough study in business on how the rules of leave could affect the increase in unemployment, because we have the unforeseeableness that we now have?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e757	In the Government, we are constantly working to assess the impact of the entire labour market and industrial policy, including the effects of the rules on leave. The last recommendation I can definitely say that we follow up on a continuous basis. On the question of predictability, I fully share the concern. It would have been entirely possible for the representative Hagen and his party to ensure that there had been a predictable framework for business, if Hagen and the Progress Party had concluded a budgetary agreement with the Government. I want to remind you that the government first went to Hagen and the Advance Party to get an agreement. It was only when we tried to go to the Workers' Party, and in this connection we had to agree to a solution to the permitting question that we did not think was ideal, but that we can live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e764	SV doesn't think Right has a hidden calendar. It's completely open. It's been a long time. Those who have a lot will get more, and those who have a hard time will get it harder. Then you get people back to work. Some of what the Council of State said confirms it. He said that it was for their sake that they would rather get fired. It's kind of better to get fired than to be on leave until your company gets over a knuckle and maybe even manages to preserve the environment of competence and develop it further. It's very hard to understand. I wonder if the Council of State can explain a little more precisely what he thinks is good about it. Then I also have one more question: how difficult does the situation have to be for businesses? Now the situation is extremely difficult, especially in the workshop industry, which reports that they almost do not have a single order. This may mean that the Council of State believes that many of the workshops should be laid down. Then he should rather say it, instead of doing it via a rule change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e771	It gets a lot harder for people who are out of work, if they don't get help to get another job. I was just in England and visited those environments over there that are working on a new and better labour market policy, a follow-up to the Blair Government, for which I will not necessarily give my great support. But what they're saying to every person who loses his job is, from the first day you have to remember that you're not unemployed. You've only got another job. Their job now is to look for a job. It is that message that anyone who loses a job gets, except those who lose a job by getting a permit. They are told that you are now available, now you are going to sit and wait and cross your fingers and hope that you get your jobs back. I don't always think it's human treatment for people. We know from experience that very many of the people who are on leave, after the unemployed, have lost half a year or more on the way to a new job.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e778	There is no doubt that many measures are needed to ensure more work, but in connection with the rules of permitment, I will re-examine a page that I think is important to clarify between the Storting and the Council of State. It is for the Committee to state that the Government must follow closely the situation on the labour market. Is there reason for the Council of State to misunderstand that what the Storting wants is not narrowing down with increasing unemployment, but the opposite? Was there any reason to misunderstand how the decision made in the Stortinge in ours, which four parties were behind, would be followed up? Will the Council of State take the Storting seriously, follow the situation more closely and be open to a more expeditious handling of the legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e785	No, of course, there is no doubt that the Government will follow a majority decision in the Storting, and also in a rough way. We did so by granting far more exceptions to the 26-week rule in the harvest than the Stortinget probably had thought. It was because of the labour market situation. Of course, we follow the situation on the labour market closely, but when, as the Committee also knows, we could not make the system that was put in place in the summer, it was because of the ambiguities with regard to the EEA rules. That is why we made an alternative proposal for rules for the next year that combined some tightening of the rules of leave with an opening for temporary employment, which we thought was a better solution both for businesses and for employees. Now we've made a deal on a solution that's acceptable, but not completely good, and that means it's 42 weeks for everyone in the first six months. Then we'll see how the labour market is developing, just in the way that the representative Meltveit Kleppa thinks we should.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e792	We are all aware that it is important to have a good framework, not least for business, in all parts of the country. I also think we can quickly become some that the normal should be a time period of 26 weeks. Occasionally, there is a need for a longer period of leave to prevent companies from losing valuable competences. I must say I was a little surprised by the reply from the Council of State to Carl I. Hagen. It may seem to me that the Council of State Norman criticises the budgetary agreements concluded with the Labour Party and that he preferred a budgetary agreement with the Progress Party. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think that it would be more conservative, would it ensure more stable framework conditions, and would the Government achieve a better result with a budgetary agreement with the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e799	To the specific question: no one knows what had been the content of a specific agreement with the Progress Party, since such an agreement was never negotiated. I said that the representative Hagen would have had the opportunity to get what he wanted, if he had made an agreement with us. I just pointed out that we first went to the Progress Party, so he had the opportunity. No, I am very pleased that the Government has entered into a budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party. I think it is very important for the country that we have got this agreement. I think it is very important that we have reached an agreement across the traditional dividing lines of Norwegian policy, and I have no problem that in the labour market we have to accept a slightly different policy than we would ideally wish, in order to achieve this cooperation with the Labour Party. I think it's in the country's interest. The only thing I tried to suggest was that it wasn't necessarily in the interest of the representative Hagen and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e806	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3, and we take note of the remark made by the rapporteur. [[See page 547]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e824	I am asking for the floor in the case because the treatment of this case has taken a long time, and there have been some consequences for the opportunities offered by Norwegian sports organisations to apply for the programme. It was examined by the EEA Committee on 20 June, and we are now writing on 21 November. As far as I know, the committee has dealt with it as usual in such matters, at a high rate. This program started today, and the first call to apply to the program took place in May. The deadline for applying was 1 July. The second round was a little later, with deadline of 1 October. This means that what remains of this programme is a third and last round, coming over the New Year, with the deadline for application on 1 March. Then there are 2 out of 6 billion euros left in the programme. This means that Norwegian sports organisations are likely to have lost the opportunity to obtain a good share of these funds for this training programme. Now I am aware that the Norwegian Sports Association has cooperated with a European Sports Organisation, ENGSO, and that they have tried to obtain funding through that cooperation. But it requires a slightly different creativity and reduces the chances of getting there. I point this out because we should perhaps have a little more attention to what is happening in Europe, in terms of the type of programmes that we can connect to through the EEA Agreement. We should also be a little more aware of the deadlines in force, so that Norwegian organisations, as in this case, do not lose their ability to obtain their share of the funds contained in the programmes, which we are therefore obliged to contribute through the EEA Agreement. Otherwise, I fully agree with the committee's position, and I assume it will be unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e837	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4 [[See page 547]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e853	The proposal seeks to improve legal certainty for pupils and parents through increased information, increased influence and the creation of an independent school representative. The majority in the Committee, all parties except the Advance Party and the representative Simonsen, are of the opinion that the local space for action in the school is large and needs to be further increased. At the same time, such increased room for organising education and choosing pedagogical methods means that parents’ need for information and guidance can also increase. Different issues of home/school co-operation will be addressed in the expected big business message based on the Quality Committee and the evaluation of Reform 97. The proposal to set up a school’s own representative is given the greatest attention both in the document and in minority comments. The majority of the Committee, all except the Advance Party and the representative Simonsen, consider that there is no need for a separate school representative. The reason for this is that, in the majority's view, the present system of the State as the Board of Appeal works well. From the point of view of legal certainty, the County State’s legal competence, the further access to take a case forward to the Civil Ombudsman and the consideration of as much as possible equal rule practice are important pillars of today’s system. I would also like to point out that, both in the document and in the minority comments of the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen, there are some serious allegations. The minority has not provided evidence of these claims to the Committee during the examination of the document. The majority therefore do not find it possible to address these claims, and they have therefore not been further commented on in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e864	I noticed that the representative ine Marie Eriksen claimed that she had not had time to go into our claims. Then I assume that she does not read the daily press that is actually in this country. On Wednesday 4 June, Dagbladet had a statement about a student who was dragged naked in front of the class and thus humiliated. Furthermore, there are questions about grades. There are questions about students who lose long-term cases of bullying in the district court, and also about lack of training they should have received. So over to the matter. Document No 8:111 for 2002-2003 was promoted because more and more school users do not believe to have adequate legal protection in relation to legislation. This has been pointed out by FUG, the Parenting Committee for Primary School, on many occasions. In particular, legal certainty is poor in relation to bullying and special education. Whether an ombudsman function for the school as an action to care for pupils and parents' legal certainty is good or bad, we would like to discuss it. That it is necessary is obvious, because more and more new things show that the school has an enormous credibility problem are being presented to the court. An ombudsman's function would then be able to relieve the legal system of this and perhaps separate weather and wind in a smooth and straightforward way before it gets as far as it does today. More and more parents experience that they are not able to have an equivalent dialogue with the school on problems related to children in a growing-up and training environment. A study showed that 12 pst. of the parents of children of school age are manifestly afraid that the teacher in Norwegian school will abuse his power in the form of represals to their children, so they do not take up relationships they experience as unfair or marginal to abuse. To substantiate this, I would like to point out that Thomas Nordahl in NOVA has revealed this relationship in a report. These developments often involve acute situations between adults dealing with children, situations that in turn affect the child’s clear rights to education and the obvious right of children to be prepared ‘to a responsible life in a free society in a spirit of understanding, peace and tolerance’. This is taken from the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, ratified by Norway on 8 January 1991. This means, among other things: that children have, or should have, the same right, or, because of their age, a better right than that of adults, to be protected from harassment and abuse of a psychological and physical nature. The legal certainty of the child does not appear today to be equivalent to the rights of adults, neither men nor women's rights to protection, cf. yesterday’s interpellation debate, where a representative pointed out that children are hurting to see domestic violence. I would claim that children take even more harm from not being protected in the training environment in which the child has to stay in for daily periods. The right to training in a safe environment is not obvious. Over the years, we have observed a wide range of individual issues in which families move from their homes – moving to give their children opportunities for safe growth and optimal training, so that in the future they will be able to become responsible adults with their own parental responsibility. These grips are heavily embedded in the Children’s Act and form, among other things, the basis that we have children's representatives as well as that we provide financial support to organisations like Save Barna and the Church's Emergency Aid. In this context, there is a clear recognition of the will to support and protect children from improper behaviour. In this context, the school system appears to lose all credibility in relation to the robust measures and support provided by the Norwegian community to ensure children everywhere, except in the field of training and development — and in their own country. With the loss of credibility, I aim that the schoolwork is the only instance that seems to be able to break public law as well as training law and a wide range of rules intended to ensure children and their parents' safety in everyday life. Making children responsible and self-sustaining should be a minimum common starting point for all political parties. A wide range of research projects have been carried out over the years, which clearly conclude that child abuse is increasingly taking place. Dan Olweus mentions in his reports bullying as an assault – just to clarify. There is assault in the form of mental harassment by both adults and children, but there is also physical abuse. Both types of assault can be subsequently documented by diagnosis, treatment and sick leave. In addition, frequently altered behaviour of these victims, lack of concentration during work, poorer results in relation to learning outcomes than before, is observed to mention something. In other words, a loss-making development for individuals and for society as a whole. The Prime Minister has said that he takes this seriously and that bullying will stop in two years. For this reason, a bullying party was signed by, among other things. Prime Minister. The manifest hasn't helped. It thrives on individual matters where abuse in the form of physical and mental bullying is a fact. There are still Norwegian children who are refugees in their own country because of the abuse they are subjected to and that society is not able to stop. In the light of what has now been said, it seems strange that every time the Progress Party calls for an agent for the school, a majority find it possible to keep their eyes closed and lean comfortably back. The only thing that is certain in this case is that as long as these abuses are allowed to continue, the Progress Party will wage an effective fight for children's legal certainty in the schoolwork.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e892	The President will stress that there is a need for source reference on the Spokesman's Chair, but it is hardly necessary to display photocopies of the source. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e897	I can assure the members of the Storting and, in particular, the representative, Evje that I am reading newspapers, and that I and the other committee have had a very good time to get into and read the document and the minority comments both once and several times. What I specifically refer to is the setting page 2, column 1, at the top, where it says: ‘In several cases where these members have received documented information, the other bodies of the public, such as child protection, are used as the ‘rise behind the mirror’ to dampen parental involvement in individual cases.’; On page 2, column 2, c. in the middle of the page: ‘It has been claimed from a number of quarters that resources for special education after individual decisions have served to provide individual teachers with greater working time in the class than learning outcomes for the student in question receiving special education.’ These are statements which are quite serious, and which, for the reasons I mentioned in my statement, I have not found reason for the committee to go into and comment on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e914	I am pleased that the representative Eriksen refers to just these matters, and I am happy to bring her a folder of at least 20 individual items where the child protection system has been used as the ‘rise behind the mirror’, and where there are possibilities for reporting this fact. Furthermore, I can tell the representative Eriksen that reviews are often rejected because the legal certainty of children, according to the police lawyers, is not a priority. But we'll come back to that later. She just has to contact me, so we'll get this straight.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e921	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e924	I really didn't intend to take the floor in this debate, but after Ursula Evie's posts I have to say a little. There were some claims there that are quite serious, not least when they are introduced from this pulpit. It was said that schools systematically violate the Training Act, systematically violate the Administrative Act, and that there is systematic abuse of students. That kind of claim is quite serious, and it affects a large part of our education system when a user uses that type of term. I would really like the representative to withdraw some of these claims, for which there is no cover at all. That things don't happen in Norwegian school, we know, but this is systematic, and that this is more or less organized from school, as it is produced here, it's simply not supposed to say from this pulpit. So this I think is a little bit gross, and I'm sorry when it's said this way. So I want to make aware of what this matter is really about. The Progress Party has three proposals. One is to set up a school representative. The second is that parents should have a majority in the operational boards, and the third is that a user committee should be set up. That is what really is the starting point for the matter, and I had hoped that that was what we were going to discuss. That is what the majority have dealt with in this matter when we have dealt with it in the committee, and not the cruel, or unpleasant, claims made here from this pulpit today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e933	The rapporteur has explained in a simple way the majority's views on this matter, and the Christian People's Party is part of that majority. I also think that the Rikvams representative's reference to what the debate is really about was entirely justified. When I take the floor, it is to underline the need for parents and students for information and guidance when the local action room in the school increases. School training shall be organised on the basis of professionally sound and safe training. This must also be seen in the light of the objective of adapted training for individual students. In such a situation, parents and students shall have the opportunity both to participate and to exercise their own rights in cooperation with the school. Where more of the assessments and actions will be based on professional judgement and judgement, parents and students are at risk of not reaching their assessments and needs. This must be met with measures such as information and advice. This can be done by parents and students, through insight and professional arguments. Conflicts can be resolved in this way through dialogue and cooperation. I will not rule out that parents want independent advice and assessments. However, I have no desire for these to come from lawyers. That is why I hope the Minister will address these issues in the work of the Quality Committee and assess actions that can help parents and students. Today's proposals of the Progress Party on a school representative with decision-making authority believe that the Christian People's Party is a duplicate of the county council's authority to deal with complaints. We trust this institution as the Board of Appeal and will therefore vote against the proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e946	It was the intervention of the representative Evje that made me feel that there was a need to seize the word. In that post, I think it was drawn a very gloomy and negative picture of the situation in Norwegian school, and there were claims that cannot be documented. It was said that the Norwegian school ‘has an enormous credibility problem’, and I do not think that is right either. General user surveys asking students and parents about Norwegian schools show that the Norwegian population is very satisfied with the school. There is an increase in satisfaction with the school, and in particular there is an increase in satisfaction with the relationship with teachers in Norwegian school. There is also a high level of well-being in Norwegian school, and the recent Power Survey shows that many parents are engaged in Norwegian school. They feel that they are being heard, and that they have the opportunity to influence. Of course, too many children are bullied in Norwegian school. The number of children in possession of bullying is approx. 100,000 of which are victims. Of course, these and all other students should have good legal certainty guarantees – no one disagrees with the Progress Party in it. The disagreement is that we other people think we have it, that we have a system. We have a supervisory and complaint body that is independent of the schools, which have a very high level of competence, which sits physically with others with related competences in other disciplines with regard to children and young people, namely the County Council. In addition, in our democracy, it is another instance to address, namely the Civil Ombudsman. Then I have to add that in the case of bullying in particular, or the psychosocial learning environment, we have recently introduced an extended right of appeal in connection with this, where the failure on the part of the school is to regard it as a simple decision that can be appealed. We do this at the same time as a very extensive hard work to combat and prevent bullying in Norwegian school. It is so extensive that it now raises international awareness, and it causes many to look at Norway in relation to this work, for this is of course a problem that exists in other countries as well. It is wrong that the Prime Minister, or this bullying party, has promised to remove the bullying in two years. It doesn't make sense to promise. What the Prime Minister has said is that he hopes that we will get into a situation where no children can be bullied and harassed for a long time without any adults intervening. We don't know what kind of results this work has given. It is not right, as the representative Evje says, that we can see an increase in bullying as a result of the efforts we are now making. No one knows what evolution is like. We have committed Rogaland research to carrying out a research evaluation of the actions undertaken and their results. What we know so far is the results of a selection of schools where the Olweus programme has been used, and those results are very positive. There's a drop in the bullying at approx. 40 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e961	Let me formally record the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote. It is quite right, as some of the previous speakers have pointed out, that there are three aspects to the Progress Party in this document. Let me take them backwards. We're dedicated to getting a user selection in high school. It is still the case that most students are under 18 years of age. It is still the case that parents or custodians are important in claiming user rights. It is still the case that parents are largely excluded from legislation and regulations relating to secondary school. They have little or no role to play. We are committed to giving superiors and parents a role as users in secondary education. Item No 2 in our proposal is about getting independent operating boards in all schools. So we want to give the users power -- we don't hide that. Dialogue and cooperation are all excellent, but we have had a long phase of loving calls for loving parental participation. Many of the frustrations that are felt out in the FAUs in primary school are due to the fact that you just don't get heard, and you feel right, we think that you don't because you don't have a formal influence factor defined by law and regulations. So we want to have what the parental committee for primary school has now joined, namely self-employed executives by a majority of parents, where parents can hire teachers and disfellowshipped teachers and get an important and proper influence on what's going on in school. At the end of point No: 1 in our proposal, on school representatives. Now it's being rejected for the fourth time. It's probably going to be rejected again before we get to the goal. The progress party is going to propose it again many times before we have it in place. The paradox is that on the day the committee gave its opinion on this, and all the other parties ended up renouncing the refusal to establish a school representative, the court case opened up by the students at Ørsta secondary school because they did not receive a training they were entitled to. Now that matter has ended correctly with an amicable arrangement. But the points are many to pick up from that case, among others. The important thing is that they felt innocent. They felt that they were not being heard. They are probably some of the few who manned up, and were strong enough, to take up the fight against the supremacy. I have to say that in the case of the massive rejection that comes from the other parties – one rejects the idea of the school representative and the reason for the school representative, and one rejects the proposal of the school representative – it reminds a lot of the defence we find for child protection, where the system adherents go in massive defence of a system and are little occupied by users, user rights, user power, user influence and being heard in their situation when disagreement and conflict first arose. We regret that the majority reject the proposal on school ombudsmen, and we're going to fight on to get it in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e974	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e977	I would like briefly to refer to the representative, Mr Requams,'s request that I withdraw my statements. It doesn't come at all. ‘It seems like’ – and it does, Mr. Reikvam, if you look around! With regard to a new evaluation of the bullying programmes implemented, it might have been beneficial to look at Nordahl’s evaluation of the bullying programmes delivered in June 2000, if I do not remember correctly, where all the existing programmes on the order of the Council of State were to be assessed with regard to the possibilities of success. Only one of I think there was 49 or 59 programs was found sufficient by Nordahl at the time, and it was Olweus' program. In fact, all the programmes found weak, low enough by that evaluation are still in use. That we then throw funds out through windows, I can make a claim, if they have not been evaluated and evaluated and changed in relation to what was critical. At least we're doing something that's completely, completely wrong. The county as a complaint body may well be very good, but there are clear examples from this country that the county has not functioned because of some notable links. Such a case has been sent to the Civil Ombudsman. The Civil Ombudsman gave the parents the right, but the municipality has refused to comply with what the Civil Ombudsman has asked for. I myself took this up with the Civil Ombudsman and asked what other tools he needed in his portfolio. He then replied that he had the right to promote case-law on behalf of the population. It remains to be seen whether the parents want the Civil Ombudsman to promote this as a case of principle. Another thing — it concerns the children’s statutory right to adapted training. The Court also includes the necessary technical means to carry out the training, making it possible to obtain a learning benefit from which the State Council itself, in several press releases, is very concerned. In Akershu County, and that should be Mr. Reikvam is well-known, queues 377 children and waits for a completely necessary technical tool – a PC. There are 377 identical cases on the ground. Some of the children have waited seven years of schooling. They have a lot of problems in getting the training they're obviously entitled to. One of the reasons why this is complicated is that the Rikstrygdeverket has a code that makes schoolchildren actually have a lower priority on aids than any other group, among others. unemployed. Now, in fact, we're going to give priority to getting out of work, and that also affects children's training and learning outcomes. On the basis of this, I do not want to take anything back, but if I had good advice, I would buy many new glasses.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e990	The President will recall that to the extent that the representative of the Republic of Requam or others is to be addressed, it shall do so through the President. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 547]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1008	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1015	By Document No 8:116 for 2002-2003 the proposers, the representatives of Skjellaaen, Ringstad and Seierstad, raise various issues relating to the rights of apprentices. Proposals seek to ensure that apprentices enjoy the same rights as high school students in terms of dandruff and participation in democratic associations, as well as the assessment of quality assurance measures for supervisors, trainers/professional managers and training establishments. In addition, it is pointed out that the possibility of foreign accommodation in apprenticeships should be improved. An overall committee shares the opinion of the proposers that apprentices should, as far as possible, have the same rights as students in these areas and that quality requirements should, of course, be imposed both on individuals in the training establishments and on businesses. There is also no disagreement in the Committee that apprentices should have the opportunity to take their apprenticeships, or parts of their apprenticeships, abroad. However, the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the member of the Centre Party, considers that these matters have been or can be dealt with in the existing legislation. The majority therefore recommends that Document No. 8:116 is annexed to the Protocol. The Committee is broadly grouped in its comments. The representative of the Skjärlaa has his own comments, which indicate that the document's proposals are being promoted. I would like to comment on some of the individual elements of the proposal. First of all, the responsibility for shooting lies with the county, and secondary school students are entitled to a free shower when the distance to school is more than 6 km. When apprentices do not have this right, first of all, it is because apprentices have a certain salary, and apprentices are very scattered, with one or only a few in the same enterprise. A free sky system will therefore be expensive and very complicated to organise. However, the Committee points to the youth discount scheme introduced in very many counties. Also, apprentices come under this scheme, as long as they are between the ages of 16 and 19. In some counties, such a discount scheme has replaced the right to a free shot. I would particularly like to point out to the Committee that there may be a need for a review of the cloud system. Students' school days are more and more organised differently, with flexibility, leisure time and responsibility for their own learning. In addition, many states have introduced and introduced free schooling. Therefore, current and past cloud patterns and cloud systems will be at risk of not meeting the need satisfactorily. As regards participation, the majority of the Committee considers that apprentices have the same rights as other employees in the company, including the right to organise themselves. Both employee organisations and the Student Organisation want apprentices as active members. One therefore believes that this point has been taken care of within today’s legislation. The third point concerns the quality of instructors and training establishments. There is no disagreement that high quality and competence of individuals who are to guide young people in education are important and that there must be continuous quality assurance of apprenticeships. The current provisions lay down the responsibility for the approval of training establishments in the county of the counties of vocational training students. Responsibility includes supervision of the competence of supervisors and others. Most companies have good quality assurance practices, perhaps to a greater extent than what we find in high school. The majority of the Committee therefore takes the view that existing legislation ensures the quality and competence of apprenticeships. Should it be found that a learning enterprise does not meet the requirements, the county council can and should withdraw recognition as a learning enterprise. The fourth and final points relate to the possibility of learning abroad. Today's legislation opens up for this. The assumption is, of course, that a foreign enterprise is recognised as a learning enterprise. There are further opportunities for exchanges, including: through EU education programmes and through the exchange agreement between Norway and Germany. One problem in this respect is that it may be difficult to obtain recognition of foreign vocational training in Norway. This makes the exchange of persons in professional circles difficult. I would like to refer to the unanimous comment of the Committee, in which we ask the Government to take initiatives to facilitate the recognition of cross-border vocational training, and expect this to be followed up in a good way. The majority of the Committee therefore considers that the good intentions of the proposal are respected, or at least can be achieved, within the existing legislation. The Committee considers it very important that these issues be adequately addressed and asks the Government to monitor developments closely. Accordingly, in view of the above, the majority of the Committee, all except the representative of the Central Party, recommends that Document No. 8:116 is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1038	The Labour Party is behind the majority view of the Committee, the main conclusion being that today’s apprentices have the same rights as secondary school students: that the current legislation imposes clear quality requirements on instructors and supervisors and that today’s legislation becomes clear quality requirements for the professional managers of training establishments. From our side, we have the impression that there is good and reliable cooperation between school, county and apprentice companies. The vast majority of the counties have implemented significant training measures for trainers in apprenticeships, which help to ensure the quality of business offers. The majority of the Committee does not share the view of the Centre that current legislation is not sufficient to perform these tasks. In the case of cloud expenditure, the Labour Party has pointed out the discounts for young people already in existence, and we want to build on such a discount scheme rather than create separate cloud subsidies for apprentices in work. In the Committee, we have therefore proposed that a review of the entire cloud system be necessary in order to examine whether it is organised in relation to the school day of the students. This is a note to which the entire Committee has agreed. From this point of view, we believe that the proposalers have been met in a good way on the issue of cloud expenditure and that, in our view, is the only point where the rights of apprentices should be assessed better. This is also in line with our comments in Innst. S. No 195 for 2001-2002 on changed conditions in the State Loan Fund for pupils taking vocational training. In conclusion, I would like to stress that all the individual vocational training offices, such as the Kitchen Apprenticeship Office, for apprentices in the transport sector or others I know well, organise apprenticeships twice a year, just to bring about the dialogue and exchange of experience between apprentices that the proposers here call for. Our starting point in the Workers' Party is that the possibility of contact between apprentices is fulfilled and that there is no need for new bodies or forms of organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1053	The proposal is based on strengthening the rights of apprentices in several areas. It concerns shooting, participation and organisation, better training requirements for instructors and quality assurance of apprenticeships. Students in vocational education change their status when they start out as apprentices. The rights they had as students fall out when they become apprentices. Against this background, we are raising the proposal that has been included in the document. I am pleased that the committee majority sees the good intentions contained in the proposal. But I'm disappointed that the majority are careful to describe the situation of the apprentices, a description that I believe gives us as proposers right in that the situation of apprentices is not as for other students, nor is it economic. A joint committee says that it is aware that many apprentices are training themselves under strict economic conditions, and that it is, among other things. may require a review of the cloud system. Nevertheless, the number of committees is not willing to propose a review of the cloud regime. As proposers, of course, we know that the transport system for students in the counties is related to the schools, and that it is not possible to set up skyscrapers for apprentices. But the main point for us is to give the apprentices a right to a cloud subsidy for the transport they had to choose, and that they are given a discount on public communications in the same way as other students. I am therefore disappointed, but perhaps not so surprised that the majority will not improve the rights of apprentices in this area. Because it is clear that this costs money. When it comes to the right to organise, I refer to what we write in the document, where it is actually clear that the rights of the apprentices are not like the rights of other workers, even if they are organised. They don't have the same possibilities to do that. The right to participation in the workplace is therefore not the same as for other workers. I interpret the passive attitude one has to it, as if it were possible for apprentices not to fully have the same rights as other workers to organise themselves. With regard to training requirements for instructors/guidance and professional managers and quality assurance of apprenticeships, it is obvious that there are many places where it works, but not everywhere is working well enough. In fact, there are many examples of apprentices not getting a high-quality apprenticeship. It is also a well-known matter that companies lose their educational status. So one might say that it indicates that the system works when someone loses one of those right, but at the same time we think it's too wrong that an apprentice should be able to go through a apprenticeship and not get enough good education. This suggests that the quality of some apprenticeships is not good enough and that supervision is not always good enough. I am pleased that a joint committee asks the Government to take the necessary initiatives to facilitate the recognition of cross-border vocational training. But we, as proposers, had hoped that the other parties had not been content to describe the situation, but perhaps actively contributed to improving the situation of the apprentices in the areas we outline. But we are not so surprised that the government parties are doing what they are doing, and in a way, they accept the description given by the ministry in relation to our draft document. I refer to the proposal contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1074	The representative, Rune J. Skjellera, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1077	Very short, as a small supplement to the case-rapporteur and also previous speakers pointed out this with the recognition of cross-border vocational training. There's the committee. This also indicates that one is united in the view that one is not entirely satisfied with the existing legislation, or at least with the practice of existing legislation. But I would like to remind you that this gives us an opportunity to show that it must apply to both roads, and it must also apply to those who have vocational training abroad and who are trying to work in Norway. In fact, during the examination of the matter in the committee, recent examples have emerged showing that it is quite bureaucratic to approve something that, in the opinion of a layman, it should at least be reasonably easy to approve, namely mechanical training from Sweden to work at a car workshop in Norway. It turns out to be quite bureaucratic, and it turns out to involve departments other than the Ministry of Education, which may be natural. At the same time, it is likely that there should be coordination in order to be able to clarify quickly and painlessly that the documentation provided by a person with education, for example. in Sweden, is fully operational in Norway. I hope that the Council of State can take it along and take the necessary initiatives so that the side of the issue is also looked at.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1084	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1087	Today's school system is well known to everyone. Those taking theoretical secondary education have a three-year course, while the apprenticeship system involves two years in school and two years in apprenticeship. It also appears known that there is some discrimination between these groups. For example, the Committee writes: under the section on shadows: ‘Cushion responsibility for apprentices will be more expensive and more complicated to organise than for students.’ Of course it will. But it's not possible to cut it out of that reason, rather on the contrary. It's expensive for the apprentices, too. I am aware that some states have so-called youth cards, but with the collective transport services available around the country, this becomes a scheme for the few. A cloud grant should have been evaluated. Very many apprentices depend on a private car to get to work. It is said that apprentices have a wage in the value-creating part of apprenticeship. That's right, but it's not very high. In addition, very many people depend on living on the furniture. Right there, by the way, a joyous thing happened in the harvest. Housing grants are now also given to apprentices over 19 years of age. Otherwise, I believe that the most serious thing that happens to our apprentices is that they lose contact with the school – or we should say their support device. For this age group, we have safe systems in high school. We have PP services, we have healthcare, we have social teachers, advisers, etc. It's very nice. But how do we deal with those who choose an equally important vocational education within our higher education system? Now the Committee says that professionally good managers with good competence are necessary. But it's important that the apprentices are taken care of. So what kind of follow-up do they get? Unfortunately, it will be very much up to the company to decide. Very many apprenticeships have only one apprentice, so the apprentices can be quite lonely. It is burdensome to be alone in their problems, without the ability to pass them on and influence their own situation. Consider a carefully young apprentice who is disgusted and perhaps bullied, and who feels that he has no one to deal with. Only in Uppland do we have 1,000 apprentices and 500 apprenticeships. The county has five people to follow them up. It does not keep saying that it is the fault of the county council. It is clear that the Training Act should have been amended so that our apprentices were also sure of quality both professionally and psychosocially throughout the training period.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1105	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1125	The public school is the very bearer of our society. It's one of the few common meeting places we have where students with different backgrounds meet. The evaluation of Reform 97 shows that primary school is very good, and there are considerable differences between schools, municipalities, classes, teachers and parents. Not least, the evaluation shows that the school is generally well reported by students, teachers and parents. L97 represents the objectives and principles of training. An important objective is for all children to have their own level of education adapted. This means that the school should take care of the individual’s needs and go a long way towards organising the school day for each student. At the same time, we know that there is a lot that needs to be improved in school. This evaluation shows that primary school does not have the power to provide equivalent training to all pupils. Some student groups are systematically short and adapted training has not been completed to the extent that it should have been. The evaluation points out inter alia:«School seems to be best for those who are common and average». OECD reports and national read tests show that Norway scores worse in reading skills than other countries it is natural to compare with. ==References== 17 pst. Norwegian primary school students do not learn to read satisfactorily at school. The last public reading test in a municipality in Norway showed that 17 pst. by students at the seventh class stage had reading skills below the critical limit. Dyslexia is a likely widespread disability. The Foundation's right to Education and Work for Dyslexics points out that for dyslexics, the school may be a sort of institution. If the individual student does not get normal progress in his reading development, the student becomes in a difficult situation because the school is a socialization arena and a learning place. Some researchers have shown that reading and writing difficulties at school can cause problems later in life. An adult dyslexic spoke out in an interview: the teacher called me both stupid and lazy, and said I had to get together. I've never been able to free myself from the thought. This suggests that there are many challenges in providing a good offer for students with difficulty in reading and writing. There is also considerable uncertainty about the extent of dyslexia in Norway. Literature on the field indicates that between 1 pst. and 6 pst. is inhibited by dyslexia by the population. I have received reports from parents who for a number of years have tried to get what their child is entitled to in terms of extra follow-up, but where the feedback has been that dyslexia was not the basis for an adapted education. I have also heard about students who have only been diagnosed with dyslexia after school. I do not mean here to distribute blame to teachers, municipalities, or other actors. But what I want with this interpellation is to put this in focus and try to see the entire education cycle in one whole, from primary to continuing education, and that maybe there can be suggestions for concrete action. The responsibility for combating problems and giving a good offer to people with difficulty in reading and writing also lies with us in this room, not just teachers and professionals. Our responsibility as politicians and fellow people is to ensure that equal rights to education can become real. Reports on how low-reading students can experience their meeting with the school or higher education institutions are taking place. I would like to read an example from a mother, which illustrates this: At my request, PPT had informed the school in advance of my son Tore's problems. I greeted the instructor and wondered if they could not keep an extra eye on Tore. Then I got the answer that I could not believe that Tore could get anything extra just because I thought Tore had dyslexia. Tore now gets the help he needs. The difference between him and the other students is beginning to become clear now. Tore is sorry, and the feeling of self is getting worse. It's an ambitious goal for Norwegian school to be a school for everyone, an inclusive school to facilitate each from their own assumption to develop their talents for the benefit of our community. It is vital that students have a clear relationship with their disability, so that they do not feel different in the school situation. Nor can we accept that students leave primary school without the prerequisites for full participation in our society. This is about the quality of school. There is no doubt that doing development work is a demanding task, where the school, school leaders, teachers and students depend on confidence to succeed. Repeatedly, if you claim that Norwegian school is a bad school, it's almost the result. The Council of State said earlier today that there is a lot of good happening in the Norwegian school, and there are many dedicated and competent teachers and individuals who are doing a great job. It's about making the school better and able to deal with the challenges. Each school today has a great deal of freedom to organize the education as it chooses. It's good, and so it should be in the future. At the same time, the requirements for the learning of children and young people are largely common to all. Special education is important for students with difficulty in reading and writing, approx. 5.5 pst. This was achieved in the 2002–2003 school year. There seems to be a lot of variation between municipalities. The state report of 2001 from the State Education Offices shows that it is difficult to realise adapted training. Special education concerns the follow-up of pupils with e.g. dyslexia, and is an area we should look at more closely. How can students with dyslexia be guaranteed special education? The quality committee has also discussed special education. And if it is that special pedagogics are proposed to be removed, do the rights to dyslexic students fall away? The question is whether it will help the dyslexics to remove special pedagogics as a profession and resource category in the school and to remove the individual rights under the Training Act § 5. Lifelong learning is also an important principle of Norwegian education policy. It seems that the organisation of students with different types of disabilities is a challenge for a number of our higher education institutions. I am aware that a number of dyslexia students experience different treatments at different educational institutions for the organisation and implementation of e.g. Exam. Some get organized, some don't. This results in students being given the willingness of each institution to organise and practice. We cannot accept that equal rights to education apply only to some and not all. I also have to say that I think it's a paradox that students can experience this at our higher education institutions. I therefore call for concrete measures from the Council of State, so that students with disabilities are not given up on the institution they are studying at. This is about something other than the freedom of an educational institution. Parents are an important resource in the development of a better school. Interesting organisations are also of key importance for gaining knowledge and experience. It is alarming that many parents experience a lack of influence over their own children’s school days. Information and cooperation between school and home are therefore important. We have to ask the question if the parents get enough information. In this connection, I would like to commend the Council of State for her efforts with the «Contact Book» to strengthen the dialogue between the individual student, teacher and supervisor. How the school works will be crucial for how each student will master his/her day of school. The teacher is the most important condition for a good school. In L97 it says: ‘The aim of training is to equip children, young people and adults to meet the challenges of life and to master challenges with others. It shall give each student the ability to take care of himself and his life, and at the same time the surplus and the willingness to stand by others." This is a demanding goal, but I hope the Storting can come up with accurate measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1164	It is correct, as the representative of Bekkemelm Orheim says in his interview, that the reading skills of Norwegian students are not on a desired level. This is worrying, among other things. because you know that reading is also an important prerequisite for learning in other subjects. The collection of results at the third year stage shows that students are reading worse now than before 1994, i.e. before Reform 97. Both national surveys and international surveys such as PISA and PIRLS show that Norwegian students have insufficient literacy skills and read strategies. Norwegian students rarely go to libraries and read less than students in the country it is natural to compare with us, for example. Finland and Sweden. The reading skills and habits of Norwegian boys are particularly worrying. In Norway, there is a wide spread of results between pupils and between classes. We are not able to ‘pull up’ the weakest readers in the same way as in other countries. The studies also show that approximately 20 pst. by students falling below what researchers call a critical limit. This doesn't mean that all these students can't read and write at all, but some of them have so bad skills that they'll have problems dealing with everyday life, in a society that demands more and more reading skills. So researchers refer to almost one-fifth of those who leave primary school as functional illiterates. Several governments in the 1990s have been concerned with monitoring the literacy skills of Norwegian students. I guess that's good. We have been busy not only monitoring, but also launching new measures. And let me mention someone. A mandatory unit of study on learning strategies in basic reading and writing training has now been developed in the new framework plan for general teacher training. All general teacher students shall also be offered a multidisciplinary subject entitled «The Library as the Learning Arena». On the mission of the Ministry, modules for continuing training of teachers have been developed at several universities and colleges to enhance the competence of initial and further reading training. In addition, in the current year teachers have been given the opportunity to receive scholarships for studies up to 60 study credits in Norwegian with emphasis on reading and writing. The studies can be conducted both as part-time and full-time studies. In addition, on World Book Day 23 April, the Government launched the action plan ‘Gi Room for Reading’, a strategy for stimulating literacy and literacy, to extend from 2003 to 2007. The plan contains a whole range of 35 different measures, and the plan is dynamic in the sense that it can be supplemented and amended, and new measures can be introduced as others are signed out. I'll mention some of the measures. It's over three years granted 20 million. kr annually for development of competence in the use of school libraries and stimulation of literacy. In addition, funds from the Ministry of Culture and the Church and the cultural school bag are available for the dissemination of literature. This represents a total of approx. One hundred million. kr during the three-year period. In addition, the scholarship scheme, as I mentioned, comes in Norwegian for teachers. In addition, a national reading training centre shall be established at the Stavanger Reading Centre. The Ministry has held the first preliminary meetings with the Centres for Reading Research and the College of Stavanger on this establishment and it will take place from 1 January 2004. All schools shall draw up a read and read schedule for all years. In addition, a national quality assessment system shall be established. A number of professional communities are now working on national samples, including: in reading. Samples shall be used from spring 2004 onwards and shall be a tool for each school and school owner to work on quality assurance of training provision. A good assessment system is important for all pupils, including those groups at risk of not achieving the objectives of training. The website, the school port.no, for which the new learning centre will be responsible, will be an instrument to support the school owner’s work on local quality development and ensuring the provision of training to individuals. All of these measures, which I have mentioned here, show that the Government is concerned with improving the literacy skills of all students, and that we are particularly concerned about facilitating the provision of students with difficulty in reading and writing. I would also like to mention that there are developed screening tests in readability at different stages. In addition, a material has been developed for the early registration of language difficulties for use in kindergartens and health centres, the TRAS material, because early registration and intervention are important. Experience shows that when students in the risk zone are caught at an early stage, many of them will leave the risk zone a few years later. Both the screening material we already have and the national tests to be developed or under development will help to capture students with problems. The aim is the prevention of difficulties and the early implementation of an organised offer. Language stimulation and pre-school literacy are central here. Entrepreneured teachers with a high level of competence will be crucial in this work, and I will also underline the role of parents, as was the role of the representative, Bekkemelm Orheim, as good reading models and their importance in contributing to the stimulation of literacy. But we have to be aware that there will always be a few students with great learning difficulties and dyslexia. The aim is that this group should be minimised and that they should receive good help and support throughout the training process, even when they become students. As far as possible, the difficulties must be remedied early. Some may also be compensated for by means of organised aids and an adapted training provision. As you know, in June the Quality Committee delivered its report ‘In the first series’. The committee places great emphasis on what they call basic literacy, writing, billing and English. A thorough consultation of the investigation has been carried out. The hearing was held on 15 October. The Ministry is currently working on a review of the consultation opinions, and in the light of, inter alia, This, and also in the light of the evaluation of Reform 97, we will present a message to the Summit in the spring session. I can assure the representative, Mr Orheim, that adapting training for pupils with special needs, including reading and writing difficulties, will be widely discussed in the communication. I'm concerned that we're going to have an inclusive school for everyone, a school where all students are guaranteed adapted and organized training based on their individual needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1202	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I also believe that the Council of State is taking this problem seriously. It is clear that some of the concrete measures need to be brought back to the Council of State when the Storting is to deal with the Gazette on the basis of the work of the Quality Committee. But at the same time, we know that there are a lot of students who are not able to get the necessary help and support. And if there's one theme that I've been getting a lot of calls on in the two years I've been on the Education Committee, it's just that from this group that they feel like they're going to be short, and that they're not going to get through enough in our system. I want to come back to the example of a student with dyslexia who, after two years of studying at a university, was told that he could not take the exam a third time. After receiving help from individuals, he was given the opportunity to take the exam after much touring. This experience was addressed in a question to the Council of State. I am pleased that the Council of State is concerned that the regulations of the University and Higher Education Act are being followed up by the sector. In the Council of State response, attention was paid to the fact that the educational institutions are responsible for correcting the study situation for students with special needs. But I wonder if this is enough. I find it alarming to think that he would almost have given up if he had not come in contact with others with similar experiences. We also know — it may be difficult to say — that many of those who have struggled with these problems over the last decades have come to the fore in society. They are struggling with drug problems and other problems today, which has led to the fact that they have not been given the opportunity to live a good and safe life. In addition, I wonder whether the relationship between special education and adapted education can be a relevant issue when discussing dyslexia. Feedbacks show that a number of parents perceive that instead of providing students with reading and writing difficulties, the school provides them with a form of customised instruction where they are either taken out of the classroom and given the same instruction, or they continue to be in the classroom and receive the same instruction as the other students have — not the particular instruction that special education can provide, with special methods and aids. I want the Council of State to comment on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1215	I can confirm that this is an area that involves me. I think it'll be a part that will claim that we've known for quite a long time that a quite large group of students have actually not learned to read and write properly. It is possible that even one is in the President's office who believes he has known that for quite a long time. I'm very glad that this is now a knowledge of Norwegian school that everyone has got, which is a great deal of consensus about is right, and which in many ways is surprising, based on the wishes we've had about the college, where we thought we should be able to even out differences to a greater extent than we have. So there's a large group of students that we can't "draw" up. If we do that, it won't go beyond the average quality in school. There is no contradiction between evening out these large differences between students — creating smaller differences — and having a high-quality school at the same time. Of course, we come back to some measures in the big message I announced. One important issue is that of the representative of Bekkemel Orheim, namely the relationship between adapted training and special education. It is a radical proposal that has been promoted. It is not to hide that this is the most controversial and most controversial proposal, as we interpret the hearing opinions and the hearings we have had. It is not easy for the government to conclude in the question, but we have to come back to that. But then I would like to say that we are not sitting and waiting for the message to be made until we implement measures to strengthen the literacy and literacy skills of the school. There are 35 measures in this roadmap, and we have also implemented a number of other measures. The purpose is to prevent and detect read and write problems before they get stuck – and they pass on to other subjects. Some people have criticized our commitment to these basic subjects for being kind of instrumental, that we're just concerned with the business. I believe that these subjects are very useful – for other subjects and for education and working life later. But I also believe that they are an absolute prerequisite for democratic participation, for being a citizen, and for quality of life. It also has to do with life's enjoyment. So we take this very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1230	The President may confirm that the Council of State's assumptions regarding the level of knowledge of the President are correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1233	The 'Reader Searching Book' association has focused on a long, invisible problem for people with reading difficulties: they cannot access books that they can master. 20 pst. leaves the school without being able to read. Yet, virtually no literature is available for weak readers. It affects both young and adults. Why is this essential in order to give everyone equal rights to education? Well, because a prerequisite for reading is that there are books that are appropriate and that you feel that you can master. Good educational measures are not enough. You don't become a reader when every attempt to get through a book just becomes another defeat. ‘Reading Searching Book’ is an alliance between the entire book industry and the weak ones themselves. It aims to ensure that good books are made for people with reading difficulties. ‘Reading the applicant book’ has requested funds for a pilot project in which it will support the development, production and dissemination of organised literature. The organisation itself will go in with 1.25 million. kr and requests that the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Social Affairs respectively grant the same. The three departments are currently in dialogue on the matter. Both the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Social Affairs have taken responsibility and have managed to find funds for the «Reader applying book» in 2004. But this is unfortunately not enough to get this trial project started, which will be of great importance. The Training Act gives the Ministry of Education responsibility for the availability of the necessary teaching materials. The curricula require access to literature in addition to the textbooks themselves. But the lack of such books leads to many not being able to get the education they want, in line with others. The question is whether the Minister of Education feels a responsibility for the problem – I think she has clearly said she does – and whether she will follow it up in such a way that she will try to find funding for this trial project in 2004, in line with what one is doing both in the Ministry of Culture and in the Ministry of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1244	The fact that 20 pst. by Norwegian students leaving primary school as functional illiterates, is alone a good enough reason for this interpellation to travel. I would like to thank the interpellant for the debate on the matter. At 20 pst. students after ten years of school do not understand what they are reading are serious, and this gives real cause for concern. Being able to read, and not least being able to understand what a reader is, is necessary to be able to master life in a good way. Much resources are spent on education in Norway. Nevertheless, we achieve results that are not always satisfactory. The growing debate that we have seen over the last few years in terms of content and organisation is joyous, because this is a very important point to ensure the necessary quality of teaching so that we can achieve a good goal. Not least, this is an important factor in relation to children and young people with special needs, and it may be particularly important in relation to children and young people who do not necessarily fall under the special education title but who can be helped by the organisation of appropriate training. It's a fact that the number of sharing hours in school has gone down – some say to a alarming degree, I don't want to protest very much about it – in the last few years. This will include, inter alia: in St.meld. No 33 for 2002-2003, to which the Committee has just given its opinion. Sharing hours are one of the school’s important tools for providing adapted training. This decrease may have led, for example, to: some dyslexics have had even greater problems with the necessary adaptation. The changes made to the Training Act to give each school greater freedom of action in relation to the disposal of hours and to organisation will be a clear improvement and, subject to proper disposal by the school, will give greater opportunity to provide adapted training and to make the necessary adjustments. L97's clear words about the individual student's right to adapted training are important. But, of course, the level of provision will depend on the resources available to the school, and not least on the possibilities available to the school itself. For too long, each school has been too tied to the way in which the hourly resources are to be made available. I am personally very pleased with the freedom that schools have now received, and see it as an important element in ensuring that the requirement for adapted training can be followed up. I attended a few weeks ago at a conference in Kristiansand, where ICT in particular was the focus. It was very important for parents that children and young people who would really benefit from ICT equipment are given priority by allocation. The availability of adequate ICT equipment is important and teachers have the necessary skills to use it as a educational tool. Finally, I would like to say that as a teacher, I am ashamed to hear stories about the ignorance of teachers in the face of dyslexics. Let's not make this a general problem. The very ones, most teachers also meet students with dyslexia wisely. But the unfortunate cases that exist are, as individual cases, very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1263	I will first be allowed to say – and this is almost problematic – that I am very pleased with the commitment of the representative of Bekkelem Orheim and the Council of State really shows in this matter, because it is also very important to me. And I tend to stand here and just fight. So thank you! What is important, and as the representative, Bekkemel Orheim, said, is that the student must have a clear relationship with his disability. I think that's crucial. I totally agree with that. But once you've clarified this relationship, there's still a complete job. It's that the student learns to master his disability in everyday life, and that these students, including those who are most disabled in reading and writing problems, really get the resources needed and the ability to learn what we all seem to be reasonably simple, namely reading text and understanding that text a reader. I know many people with dyslexia who can read, but they have very little understanding of reading. It's also going to be a very important concept to get to. Now that we know that giving dyslexics reading skills, this understanding of what they really read, is a very special field of training, we can't expect the general teacher in a class situation, with responsibility for many students, to have this special competence. That's why it's very important that we realize that this is the case, and that we don't remove the extra resources that follow the student. I can show that also in the case of other students, for example. students with ADHD syndrome are associated with additional resources in the school situation. And that's absolutely necessary. What I'm trying to say is that the organized education has these students as standard students, but these students have to have a lot more in addition. We have to take that inwards. In Case No. 5 I showed that 377 students at Akershus are currently waiting for a PC, i.e. ICT equipment, which is a completely necessary tool. Most of these 377 students are in the group who need adapted training. When one of them has had to wait seven years, one has neglected cruelly. And, when the department writes to me in a letter that the general rule in relation to Section 5 therefore has to be that a new individual decision on special education has to be taken when a student changes school, and that it is only for people with multiple disabilities that they can draw with them the money as a right for the student, then I am quite concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1274	Developments show that there have been more students, fewer schools and larger classes in primary school. This is a structural change that EN fears will undermine the school's ability to organise education according to the needs of students, so that all students can receive an equivalent training offer. Adapted training for each individual student is an overall objective in Level 97. The objective has broad political support. Particularly worrying is the relationship we see in the number of sharing hours in school, because it is these hours that make it possible to adapt and vary the training situation for students in school. The split hour shows a decrease from 11.3 to 9.6 hours per. students between 1997 and 2002. The decrease in the split hour as a proportion of the minimum hour is slightly less than the decrease in the split hour per. student. This suggests that the allocation of split hours is largely per. class and to a lesser extent by the number of pupils in the class. As seen in such a light, the growth in class size as we see now is an unfortunate development. The results of the comprehensive research programme of the Research Council, Evaluation of Reform 97, show that primary education is insufficiently able to organise the training according to the different abilities, interests and needs of the students. Instead of capturing students' different assumptions and evening differences, school becomes a place where inequalities continue to be produced. There is reason to be very concerned about the growing differences, because they are about both gender and social status culture. We have to get a systematic inequality in the learning offer. Girls do it better than boys in almost every field. It's up to 50 pst. more boys than girls receiving special education. In particular, the situation of minority students is alarming. The evaluation shows that 55 pst. by students with a minority background in Oslo School are left with little or no knowledge of what the teacher has undergone in the class. The evaluation also shows that the level of education of parents plays a major role in the performance of pupils. These findings are discouraging, especially if the evaluation conclusion on the lack of adapted education is taken into account as a major cause of the wide differences. Reform 97 should ensure that students are trained to adapt to the individual, while the evaluation of the reform suggests that students are generally still treated equally, regardless of skills, interests and assumptions. We have many students in school today who feel that the school is not available to them, who feel that they are not being used as the resource they really are. The school shall centre the individual student. If the student succeeds in school, it's not the number of hours, but the type of hours that are the most important. If the student is allowed to experience mastering and learning, it is not certain that it is most active to have more hours. The most important thing is the content and quality of the hours they have. For example, the parental committee in primary school wants: more play, physical activity and practical work into school, no more theoretical hours. It's no use giving more of a medicine that doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1295	It is an important topic that the interpellant addresses here today, because in school as well as in society, there is a great demand for literacy skills, because it is expected that students can obtain information and knowledge in books and on the Internet, and that is a prerequisite for learning. One estimates today that it is approx. 20 pst. who is a read-only person. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that students with reading and writing difficulties are a very complex group. Therefore, not only one particular method is correct. The causes of reading and writing difficulties are many. This may be due to poor reading training. There may be totally wrong training for some because of a lack of competence in this subject of teachers. This is why it is so important to focus precisely on competence and to facilitate training courses for professionals who want to gain knowledge of it. It is also important that the correct diagnosis is made as early as possible, so that you can get the help that is appropriate. This applies in particular to dyslexics. Training must be provided according to his own specific challenges. For dyslexics, the decoding itself creates problems. Here the use of ICT as well as subjects on sound is important, so that they are not left with a lot of reading material. In addition, this also makes the substance more available. Experience has shown that ICT has provided many new opportunities for both access to information and written communication. However, the need for training and guidance in the educational use of ICT for this group is great. The broad competence centre has been active in building up ICT skills for this target group and can report growing needs. In 2002, 14 000 computers were transmitted through the emergency centres, and 80–90 pst. of these were in school context. For most, this provides good help, but competence may be spread, and there may be a need for top skills for this group’s needs in relation to ICT-based learning and tools. The Learning Centre has also developed more ICT learning programmes for dyslexics in use. I believe that the competence of the teachers and of the PPT and this with early diagnosis can continue to improve. The first reading training is very central, and good organisation and follow-up are crucial, especially for students with difficulty in reading and writing. Cross-disciplinary cooperation is also very useful in this context. Learning difficulties can be caused by so many things: they can also be caused by motor failure and other disabilities. In this respect, the knowledge of professionals other than teachers must also be used for the follow-up of the individual student. Experience shows that the best way to become a good reader is to read a lot. Many people with difficulty reading and writing experience as they get older, and they read and write more, that they also get better at reading and writing. So finding reading material that has special interest and that creates a desire to read becomes important. The work already undertaken by the Government to increase literacy, provide room for reading, is also a good tool in relation to students with difficulty in reading and writing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1313	First of all, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Bekkelem Orheim, who is raising this interpellation. I think the answer the Council of State gives is actually uplifting. I really feel that the government is taking seriously this problem that has been revealed to a large extent within Norwegian elementary school. I have to say that when we in the committee got a briefing from Peder Haug on the situation at school, it was quite thoughtful. When, for example: asking questions about whether there is enough competence on what is involved in adapted training for those who are going to practice it, I think it is actually quite thoughtful. That is why I also have great hopes for the big message coming to spring, that this concept and this principle of adapted training can really be filled with content and can become a reality for students in Norwegian school in the years to come. I have said this before that adapted training is almost a sacred concept for me. I think it's so fundamental that the students should be met as they are, and where they are. I feel that the Council of State really takes this seriously. That's one side of it. Then there is the other side, as also the representative Olsen from the government parties said: the concerns associated with this that the number of split hours goes down, that there are more students and fewer teachers. When I started at the other end, it was to say that I felt that this is not just about resources to get a better school. Actually, I don't mean that. Research has shown that it's about other things too, but resources are also a prerequisite for being able to give kids a good deal. The fact that you see that the number of split hours, which is the school's tool to approach this, goes down so much, worries me. Scarbøvik emphasises the competence of teachers, the importance of strengthening them, and the fact that this can have many reasons for reading and writing difficulties. I think it's important that we continue to bet a lot on what's going to be about empowerment for the teaching profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1326	First, to the representative Britt Hildeng on the project ‘Reader is searching for a book’. The Labour Party will have the chance to vote in favour of this in Stortinget, as we think it is such an important matter that we are going to put it into our budget within the limits that the Committee has received. This will give the Workers' Party the chance to join in on this proposal in order to strengthen the organisations and to facilitate that we can do this, as these organisations themselves are going in with quite a lot of money for this project. The evaluation of L97 shows that we do not succeed in adapted training. A good part of the problem is that we simply do not get to facilitate training courses that are individually adapted. We do not take the individual student’s skills and facilities into account and build the training around the individual student. Here are the major challenges, and we have to deal with them. We have to make it. We have to take the necessary steps for the spring when we get the big message, so that this is taken seriously. The international comparative studies show that Norwegian students read on average. In addition, the studies show one more thing that it's really important to bring with it. They say something about learning strategy, that Norwegian teachers lack learning strategies, especially compared to Swedish teachers. In Swedish school, reading skills not only relate to Swedish subjects, but through all subjects, and it is extremely important that we can get that kind of learning strategies into Norwegian schools as well. I am quite convinced that if we manage to do so – that is a major challenge – reading and writing skills will be significantly improved. The evaluation also shows that there are considerable variations in the number of hours, i.e. during the time used for Norwegian training, for reading and writing training. The evaluation shows very wide variations between schools. This may be OK, but it has something to do with different learning strategies within Norwegian school. So getting some grip around this is also very important. I want to say that reading studies have also been done among the adult population, those who are from 25 to 54 years old. There's even worse reading skills. But it's going forward, and we can have a lean comfort in it. The studies show that at least it has improved. In the end, I would like to say that I think it is important that the Council of State should take action in relation to the educational institutions, so that we can sort this out with exams and exams for those who have dyslexia. I think there is a need to establish a uniform regulatory framework. Especially now when we create new exam systems with directory evaluations, etc., it is important that this comes into place. It is important that the State Councils address this with our higher education institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1341	The President is not quite sure whether the representative has come to the conclusion that the Labour Party has already committed itself to the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1344	Thank you for the difficulty in reading and writing again being put on the agenda here in the Chamber. There are some of us who think we should have come further. It's quite right, as the Council of State said, that when you've known your diagnosis of dyslexia for over 100 years, knowledge and quality should have been at a slightly different level. I often use to say that reading and writing problems, dyslexia, are the school administration's business, that diagnosis and treatment are going to happen in school, while a lot of the other thing is about disabled people in health care, which has a slightly different thinking. Maybe that's why we're a little bit behind. There is at least one possible reason why things have gone a little slower there. What is important is to prevent early school, to be read for, to get listening training and to hear what syllables come first in the word, and who comes last in the word. Some of the children we know are in the risk zone, for example. those who have dyslexia in the family. It is important to follow up on the knowledge we have in this area, to take it both in kindergarten and by helping parents who have their children at home at the preschool stage. Teachers must be specialists in initial reading and writing because it is important to break the reading code and learn correctly right away. Equally important is the need for all teachers to have knowledge of reading and writing difficulties, including dyslexia and the problems that then emerge in other disciplines, such as: English. When it comes to math problems, we also see it, but there may be other problems. In the debate, reading difficulties are a common concept, and therefore it is very important that we in school detect symptoms of dyslexia and take it seriously. The symptoms are that there is a lot of error in reading and writing. But it's just as important to find the cause, and then we're back to the fact that dyslexics have to get the right diagnosis. A targeted help must be provided and in a way that helps the student maximum. And then we have to remember the whole child, give a good learning environment, so that the child is accepted, and not least find the resources of the individual. The most important thing about special education and arranged arrangements is the competence of the teacher, both in the case of dyslexia, and in the case of how training must be given in order for it to have a positive effect. Assistive devices are important. As far as ICT is concerned, I just want to remind you that the ability to scan text is important, plus synthetic speech to get it read out. In the case of sound versions, both the sound and the paper versions should be available at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1361	I would like to add a slightly different angle to this with children's reading and writing difficulties. I think the theme raised here is incredibly important, because it actually has consequences later in life for the human being who doesn't get the reading and writing skills that society is obliged to give children. We see it in relation to crime. Crime is increasing. We've become more of a fire-fighting society. Every time we have a problem in society, we solve it like when we turn off a fire. Let me give you an example: ca. 95 pst. by Norwegian prisoners are men. There are probably many reasons for this, but I will not be bombastically drawing any conclusions. However, it turns out that many of the prisoners have basic difficulties in reading and writing. It is a sad failure of society that these men should learn basic reading and writing skills in prison. In the newspaper earlier this year, a study shows that boys make it weaker in 90 p.m. by the subjects than girls. And that's right, as said here: an OECD report concludes that at least 20 pst. by Norwegian 15-year-old boys functionally are illiterate. After finishing primary school, girls who choose health and social education get 1 100 hours per day. years in human-related subjects, while boys who choose technical subjects get zero hours of human-related subjects. The question then is, can any future criminal behaviour be the result of the type of training that Norwegian boys receive in relation to the field of communication? The consequences of lack of communication can be many. We see that the crisis centres are being overpopulated by an increasing number of women who have been subjected to quite aggressive and serious attacks by violent men. The direct cause of 80-90 pst. of all road accidents in Norway, the ability to assess is that of the man. Nevertheless, we continue with completely equal traffic training for both sexes and defend it pedagogically, psychologically and in fact through the law. I believe that the need for a necessary, differentiated training in primary and secondary education is indeed precarious. The study referred to here today shows that there are differences between boys and girls and that there is a need for differentiated training. Today's pedagogical approach demonstrates through the studies to which it is referred, both from the minister and from the inter-pellant, that we need better organized education for boys, and of course also for girls.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1376	It was probably the president who mentioned that a certain engagement had been made lately. I have to say that someone had asked me a year ago if I would have liked an engagement with the council, I would probably have been very negative about it. But I have to admit that there is at least one thing this engagement will lead to, it is a strengthening of the basic subjects. At least the Labour Party and the Right are in complete agreement. After this debate, there can be no doubt that the Storting will support the Council of State on offensive measures to support those who are struggling with read and write difficulties. I agree with the representative of Rune J. Kschillaaen that it is serious if there is not enough competence in this field in Norwegian school. It is important that we take action against teachers in this field, so that we can identify the situation, as both Ursula Evje and Elsa Scarbøvik were involved. And then it's also important that we be able to put in the right and accurate measures so that we can give these students adequate help in the learning situation. Then I want to make it clear that it must be that special education is an offer to the students who will be stuck, and that the students must get the necessary offer even if they change schools. We know that there are examples that students who have been offered special education and who have to change schools have to apply again in order to receive the necessary special education. I want the Council of State to comment on that. This may seem like an unnecessary bureaucracy, and it may not be that parents have to use resources to access the system repeatedly. So finally, I just want to thank the Stortinget for a constructive debate and hope that we will jointly be able to make good efforts towards this group that has been struggling for too many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1387	The President would remind you that in terms of intimate relations between persons of the same sex, it's called partnership.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1390	Maybe they'll get engaged first. Thank you for the debate. I have to say that it has well been clarified now that there is a very broad consensus in the Stortinget that the most important challenge in Norwegian school is what has been summed up after the evaluation of Reform 97, namely that we do not get to adapted training as well as we could wish, that Norwegian school is too much oriented towards an average student that does not exist, and that Norwegian school is not too sensitive to diversity, diversity and variety. So I'd like to maybe nuance the debate a little bit at one point, like the representative Scarbøvik, because here there might have been a lot of talk about dyslexics or characteristics of the students. The reason why a large number of students have poor reading and writing skills can be the characteristics of the students, the characteristics of the training, the characteristics of the school or a combination of these. It's important to be clear. So not all of these 20 pst. We've been talking about, are dyslexics. It's probably not all of them deserve some diagnosis; they just didn't learn to read and write. The reason they have not learned to read and write can be that reading and writing training has not been good enough. It is revealed, among others. the lack of skills in basic literacy, which is an art – very difficult, it is not just Norwegian. In addition, PIRLS also reveals that there is too little systemicity in the learning process. What the PIRLS have discovered, unlike the PISA, is that there is a difference between classes. That doesn't mean there's a difference between the students in these classes, but there's a difference between what's going on inside the classroom, so here it might be a multiple cause, which the representative Skarbøvik had in mind, which I totally agree with. I also want to add that there is already a lot of positive happening in Norwegian school. Oslo schools are one example where measures have been taken to strengthen literacy. They seem to have had a very positive progress in a very short time. And what's happening around Oslo schools is that teachers and school leaders are getting more aware of this work, taking it more seriously, becoming more concerned about using good learning strategies and techniques, and also achieving results. And that's very positive. Then I think the representative Lena Jensen was also interested in something very important, namely the minority-speaking. In Norway, there is a clearer distinction between kindergarten and training systems than in many other countries. This means that there is little research into pre-school learning in Norway. But we've gotten more as we've gotten a more diverse society with more minority speakers in our midst, and then we've done more research on this. Early language development is very important for reading and writing training in school, so I am also very concerned about what is happening in pre-school age, among other things. with good monitoring and competence at health stations and in kindergartens. Very many children go to kindergarten before they start school, so they have the opportunity to take action. In the case of ‘Reader is looking for a book’, I find that this measure has already received 1.5 million. kr. Regardless of what the Ministry of Education and Research has, we support many measures aimed at the dissemination of good literature to children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1405	That is the examination of case No. 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1419	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 548]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1435	The Financial Committee has examined St.prp. No 10 for the approval of the decision of the EEA Committee on labour force surveys in the Community. The size of many of these cases is dealt with annually in many areas without special debate, such as: in the matter we just had. However, this proposition deals with a very topical issue, namely labour market statistics and labour force surveys. It is natural to link some comments to it, and also to the formal treatment of the case, which is mentioned in the comments of the referral. The current accession and the consequent changes for the Norwegian labour market statistics will enable statistics in the EU to be compared with those in the Norwegian. We live in an international labour market in relation to the fact that labour flows to a certain extent between countries. To an even greater extent, international comparisons of trends and trends are important in order to take the necessary action in their own national labour market. For Norway, it will be very useful for our situation to be part of analyses carried out by researchers in other countries and by international organisations, such as the United Kingdom. OECD. The changes in the statistics currently carried out will result in measurements of overtime use, absences, training, continuing training, etc., of the conditions of the disabled with regard to the labour market and, in fact, of the relationship of the elderly with the labour market. In addition, this results in some adjustments to age definitions, etc. The important thing about several of these variables is that they are structural indicators that form part of the so-called Lisbon process. The Lisbon process aims to make the EU the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world. Norway does not have any lower objectives. I refer here to the Government's recent plan for a comprehensive innovation policy, which highlights that we are the world's most innovative country and are the most important in terms of knowledge, technology and value creation. Key concepts in the plan are increasing internationalisation, globalisation, new markets and cross-border trade. A good and important tool in that process will be the comparison between country and labour markets in reference testing. The Committee, during its work, has submitted its opinion to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but the Committee has also sent a written request to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, indicating the short time allocated to the Committee for the examination of the matter. The Committee should be given a longer period of procedure in similar cases. However, as the rapporteur, I believe that even though the time available to the Committee may have been scarce, particularly during a pressurised budgetary procedure, the matter has been dealt with in an absolutely sound manner. It is probably a point that the Committees of the Biggest must also adapt to some extent, and that we must, in our relationship with the outside world – and in particular with the international community – occasionally accept that deadlines can be limited, as long as the procedure is not irresponsible. I state again that it has not been in this case. Although there are some minor specific comments, the Committee is unanimous in agreeing to the participation in the labour force surveys of the Community.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1452	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 548]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1460	Then Stortinget will vote in the cases on today's map. In Case No: 1 and 2 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1540	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward the following proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen: ‘1. The government asks the government to set up a school representative independent of political and ministerial governance.2. The government is asking the government to facilitate the majority of users in all public schools' operating boards and that these boards are to be considered as an independent legal entity.3. The government asks the government to set up a user selection for higher education. The size assumes that such a user selection shall be an independent legal entity.’;» Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1572	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1579	Then the correct votes shall be 79 votes in favour and 16 votes against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1587	During the debate, Mr Rune J. Skjellaaen presented the following proposals on behalf of the Central Party: ‘The Government requests the Government to make proposals with amendments to the Training Act which ensure the same rights for apprentices. the possibility of establishment and participation in democratic associations such as secondary school students. The government is asked to further consider quality assurance measures for supervisors, trainers/professional managers and approved training establishments, as well as to improve the possibility of foreign residence. ‘... Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1609	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-21.ana.ud169e1651	There is no record.
