ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e28	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that access be given to five lines of reply following contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e37	The Economic and Social Committee has examined Document No. 8:52 from the representatives Arnesen, Sandal, Kristoffersen and Schjøtt-Pedersen. The proposal is about introducing a system of State guarantees in the fisheries sector. The scheme shall be administered by SND, where SND shall be allowed to provide up to 50 pst. guarantee. It is proposed that the guarantee frame should be set at 200 million. NOK, with provision for losses of 50 million. kr. The Committee, because of its time perspective, has not had a hearing on the matter, but the case-speaker has, for its part, met with some of the most central actors. In addition, there has been a debate in the media on the proposal. There is a problem in the industry as to whether this is a good proposal or not. The fishing link, represented by its organisations, has supported the proposal, as has the Norwegian Maritime Association, which represents some of the fish buyers. The Regional Association of Fisheries and Aquaculture, the Department of Industry and Exports, has been opposed to the intention of the proposal in governance decisions. I expect that the minority will do well for their eyesight, and I want to spend the rest of my time clarifying why SV supports the proposal of the representatives of the Labour Party. In the last year, the Norwegian fishing industry has moved from billions of predictions to doomsday prophecies. The causes of what one has to characterize as a negative development today are many and composite. The public debate often points to high interest rates, high dollar rates, variable market access, relatively high wage costs and a stressed resource situation. In addition, I think it is important to add that in recent years the Norwegian fishing industry has been characterised by overinvestment, overcapitalisation, privatisation and the centralisation of dishes. We have had a state fisheries policy which has not taken on board the knowledge that robust small and medium-sized enterprises are the survivors, but which, on the contrary, through the SND have stimulated investment in large industrial locomotives for which unfortunately our resource base does not exist. Fishing is still a partly politically regulated industry, and I therefore believe that it is a political task to take responsibility for finding solutions to the challenges we face today. For me, the greatest paradox of all is that the fishing industry is an industry in which the wise pays off, an industry in which there is little conflict of objectives. Nevertheless, we manage to take care of ourselves so that we face the problems that we see today. Fishing industries contribute significantly to Norwegian export income. The industry is not subsidized, but goes against value creation and coastal construction. But we see today that evolution is going in the wrong direction. The consequences of the many coastal bankruptcies are understandable. SV found it problematic that accidental coastal bankruptcy should structure the Norwegian fishing industry. SV considered it problematic that banks would like to reduce their risk and their efforts in the Norwegian fishing industry should be decisive for where we are going to have coastal fisheries processing in the future. SV thought it was a valid paradox that in an industry that has so much political control, random fluctuations in the market should clean up when we find it too good. What I mean is the context of the Workers' Party's proposal. I record that this is not all I want to mean. In the previous week, the county council in Troms adopted a statement in relation to the situation in the fishing industry there. come with quite a hard shot in relation to the government's policy. One says that a policy based on the fact that those who do not survive do not have the right to life is based unilaterally on the driving force of the market mechanism and not on the political goals promised to the Norwegian people. One of the initiators of this appointment was Roy Waage, the only Christian People's Party spokesman in the country who has pure plurality behind him in the municipal government, and who is also the first candidate of the Christian People's Party in the district election to the palace. It tells me that we're not alone in this case. In the public debate on this proposal, it has been pointed out that this kind of short-term action is not what the Norwegian fishing industry needs, one is forced to take more long-term action. I still cannot see the need for a more long-term and better strategy to prevent a short-term approach when there is a need. I therefore welcome the proposal from the representatives of the Labour Party. At the same time, I also see the need to challenge a better and more long-term policy, and I would like to use the opportunity to challenge the Council of State here. Do we have a strategy? Do we have a long-term strategy for the Norwegian fish processing industry, or are we all going to fuck our hands and sit down and wait for interest to go down and the crown to go down? I can't see that it's good enough. I can't see that it's enough at all. I can't see how just sitting and waiting for interest to go down and weakening the crown will solve the many and complex challenges facing the Norwegian fishing industry. The proposal by the representatives of the Labour Party is a short-term measure. Yes, it is a good short-term measure, but we also need a more long-term strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e63	The biggest issue is now dealing with a proposal that many along the coast have taken a great deal of interest in and that has triggered a great debate. I would like to say that I think the rapporteur has worked well on this matter and provided very good information. Very many in the industry have welcomed the proposal as a rescue, while a few actors have been more critical of the proposal. The Labour Party has taken seriously the signals of our coastal communities with this proposal. We are committed to maintaining the main features of the housing pattern and of the whole country being in use. That's what's at the bottom. Scattered settlements, viable settlements and coastal communities and great value creation have always been Norway’s characteristics. This diversity has put us on the map as an exciting trading partner and as an exciting travel destination. It is striking that we have reached the point that coastal areas and districts that have a rich food basin and large natural resources just outside the kitchen window will be the most difficult in today's situation. What is it that makes us there? Is it so that, as politicians, we have given ourselves every opportunity to influence this development in a more positive direction? There are reports from all over the country that the fishing industry is struggling, and it is claimed by many teams that the industry is in the deepest crisis in very many years. Yes, someone believes in over 30 years. In such a situation, our citizens and voters expect action from us as politicians. When we from the Labour Party promoted this proposal, we had expected the support of a large majority in this Chamber, but that will not happen after all. Perhaps the greatest surprise is that the Christian People's Party, with its pronounced position on such issues, will not support the proposal. As the rapporteur pointed out, a recent opinion by several parties, including the Christian People's Party, has been adopted in Troms County, and is precisely asking for the arrangements contained in the proposal. I don't think anyone believes that everything should always be the way it has always been, but we can't use a difficult economic situation and bankruptcy as a tool to structure such an important industry. The market is asking for more and more fresh products from the fishing industry. This means that industry must be present along the whole coast and have the easiest possible access to the market. The proposal does not aim to keep living in businesses that obviously have no prospect of making money. The aim is to prevent the lack of operational credit from leading to cessations and severe restrictions on the purchase of fish and to prevent firms from being forced to sell the products at an adverse time due to liquidity pressures. If we get the proposed scheme in place, this means in practice that we are strengthening the companies that still have a chance to survive. Otherwise, because of this difficult situation, these enterprises will be weakened and thus at risk of further losses. In my view, only the largest companies will survive, while the smaller companies will have to lose. One of the things that we really want? This is not about any subsidisation, as someone has claimed, but about a handshake to a crisis-capped industry. These are measures that may not cost anything at all for the state, but will help some companies and communities that are struggling, but have a great opportunity to come back upstairs. In my view, it should be in everyone's interest to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e89	I'm referring to the proposal of the minority in the committee. This debate reminds me a little of the lack of arguments, so you raise your voice. And I wonder most of all why this proposal was not promoted where it belonged, namely in the budget for 2003, but it was not. It must also be allowed in today's debate to ask: what is the problem of provisioning? Where do we have that? Where is there a shortage of buyers of the quantities offered to us along the Norwegian coast? Very well known these are not available. I think what you're doing in the debate is stabbing your head in the sand and turning the case completely on your head, perhaps more to humiliate individual parties in this room than to have the aim of adopting this week's proposal for additional expenditure for the state – during this government's dubious struggle to make life easier for the Norwegian competitive and export-oriented industry. Every week we get proposals presented from the opposition, on the basis of this one, which has the common desire to drive Norwegian interest back to the level it was at when the Workers' Party put in the government position, that is, at the top of Europe, and bring the Norwegian krone price back to old heights, which in turn will make life very so acid for the competitive industry. Is it forgotten that this year, compared with the four years ago, the landing quota has been reduced from 850 000 tonnes to 390 000 tonnes this year between Norway and Russia? Do you forget that it is simply a lot, much less to share, work on and work on, and that we have fought so dubiously that the Norwegian fishing industry should have the worst export conditions for all industries? I believe that if a talk had been taken with, for example, the Raw Fish Team, which is responsible for negotiating the first-hand price – which was far too high last year, far above what the Norwegian industry in this area was able to tolerate, and which has been a most contributing cause of the bankruptcy wave we see along the coast today – and if, for example, they were. could help by increasing its credit rating from today's 10 days to, for example, 30 to 40 days, more than would have helped in the situation in which this industry is. In no way could it have been considered to be a kind of distortion of competition at all, as such a proposal for State aid and contribution to this area could be seen as, in the market closest to it, which is most important and which is to be paid for the goods and services provided by the Norwegian fishing industry. The distortion of competition could be a risk factor which could be a devastating step for the Norwegian fishing industry if this proposal were to be adopted at all. And what kind of justice? Who is to receive this guarantee? And who is not to receive this guarantee? At all, it is my claim that in the long term this proposal will reopen the first-time price. It is now reduced, more in line with what the market is capable of tolerating. A proposal like this could in turn help to bring up the first price. There will be greater competition for the raw material, which in turn could make the situation more difficult in the longer term for the Norwegian fishing industry. Therefore, it is my claim that this cannot be considered a contribution to strengthening the basis of the Norwegian fishing industry. No matter how you turn it around and turn it around, it's an unpleasant situation that we also have overcapacity on the land. Overcapacity both on the land and on the sea is a double threat to profitability, but also to the resource situation on the catch side by drawing the total overcapacity into today’s debate, to which a new effort is being made to contribute. Therefore, this cannot be considered to be a proposal which will bring Norwegian fishing industry forward. Nor can I say that the proposal has received a warm reception from the operators who are set to serve the fishing industry. At the same time, I consider it more curious to make political advances from the pulpit here to tell the Norwegian fishing industry how to implement their business. I think the fishing industry itself is better able to do that than a politically elected assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e110	It's a little strange that one from the Labour Party and the SV's side doesn't realize that it's not just in the fleet it's overcapacity, but also on the country side. When I hear from the representative Arnesen that the whole coast is screaming and shouting about this, yet the whole country is shouting and shouting about this, and the whole industry is screaming and crying out for support, I must say that I do not know myself, I, and I am born and raised in thrones on a part of the coast that feeds on fishing. And I have to say that I have had an unlikely number of telephones. Contrary to some other issues we are dealing with in the Committee on Fisheries, there have been very few telephones when it comes to this matter. Most phones have actually been of the degree that this, Lodve – they use my first name on the Dark Coast – you have to go against it. I have even received telephones from the Sogn and Fjordane district, from which one of the proposers is from, with exactly the same message. I have also received the same message from fleet side – exactly the same one. When a member of the Workers' Party and SV, it seems like everything in the fishing industry is dependent on this. But if it is true, as the representatives of Arnesen and Elvik say, they cannot have read an important sentence in the proposal: «It is assumed that credit is granted where the enterprises are creditworthy.» Is there a lot of companies that are? At least not those who are on the brink of bankruptcy today – and perhaps are bankrupt. And in case there's someone here screaming, it's just those who have the problem that they're not creditworthy and don't get credit. When demarcating these enterprises, by assuming that credit is given where the enterprises are creditworthy but still do not obtain loans in private banks, I believe that then it is probably not a single enterprise that will be in the situation that it will receive a State guarantee. One could always adopt the proposal, but I don't think it would have any effect at all. That's right, what the representative Kristiansen says. Maybe it's in the right place to chatter a little bit about individual parties that have disloyal party members as their spokespersons. That's okay. In this way it could be good to signal back to SV that if SV had listened a little bit to Wenche Fossen in relation to how one should do something for the fishing industry and get market access in Europe for fish, and had one would have been willing to sacrifice a little on the agricultural side to get it to, it would have been a help to the fishing industry that it had really tasted a little bird and that might have been important in the long run. I think we need to see that the fishing industry on the land needs to undergo a structural change and a structuring. We just have to see that. Then I think we're just forced to let the industry take care of itself, let the market actually get it done by itself. If we had perhaps been willing to liberalise more raw fish laws and participating laws, perhaps it would have helped the companies and industry to get more stable deliveries and better deliveries, for both fleetside, landside and Norwegian state treasury, which depends on the industry that is the largest export industry, if we keep the oil out. So our attitude is the same here as in the committee: we are opposed to this proposal and want to put it to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e128	The President sees no concern in the fact that the representatives speak of themselves with the first name of the interlocutor.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e131	We know that parts of the fishing industry are facing a difficult situation. There's no doubt about it. Several fishing receivers face uncertain times, with possible bankruptcies such as outcome. We've been told that. This in turn creates problems for parts of the fishing fleet. The focus on these problems has become even clearer at high interest rates and the violently strong crown we have witnessed recently. The symptoms affecting the industry are therefore the same as those affecting all export-oriented industries. At the same time, it is important to look at the industry in isolation, to see what characterises the challenges it faces. Then we talk about the challenges of raw material access and the situation of some fish recipients. Raw material availability has been reduced, quotas have been fished out, Norwegian cost levels are high, raw material prices are too high, and multiple receipts are overpriced — so full that some do not have the opportunity or the capacity to further process the fish. At the same time, many of the enterprises are heavily indebted. It is then important to ask whether additional operational credit will only provide temporary breathing space for some actors, whether additional operational credit will only increase the overall debt burden and make it even more difficult for industry. A proposal to introduce a State guarantee for operational credit would, in the short term, improve the reduction situation in areas with marketing problems and would be positive for fleets’ ability to convert fish. At the same time, however, it is clear that this will not be able to address the fundamental problems facing the fishing industry. We must not get into the situation where we implement schemes that only maintain a capacity at the industrial level for which there is no basis in the current resource situation. It will be very important to be able to reverse the negative assessment of the industry that has arisen after several years of problems with market access, high interest rates, etc., because this means that investors will have an excessive risk premium to enter. When capital becomes too expensive, and thus does not receive sufficient returns, this only contributes to the strengthening of the fluctuations to which the industry is exposed. In this case, it has not been free that it has been tried to create a division in the Government by appealing to the Christian People's Party to turn this case around, as SV turned in the net pay case. SV has also challenged the Christian People’s Party to ‘mount more communities’ by providing bank guarantees to the fishing industry. We are concerned with rural and community policies, and that is precisely why we want to contribute to long-term solutions. Let me make it clear that the Government takes seriously the framework conditions and the competitive situation of the industry. In fact, we take it so seriously that this is what we put the emphasis on in economic policy. This is to repeat itself, but it is important to reaffirm once again that by pursuing a tight fiscal policy and acting responsibly in relation to this, we provide the best basis for good business environment. This has also resulted in a fall in interest rates during the winter, which in turn has led to a weakening of the exchange rate. Now it is quite disturbing times, such as: As a result, the exchange rate fluctuates, but at these times it is important to establish that stability on our part is absolutely beyond doubt! More concretely and in relation to the fishing industry, it may be useful to look at an increase in credit time and improved guarantee schemes from the sales teams in order to facilitate the trading situation and improve the risk balance. Credit institutions must also take their share of responsibility for a difficult time, while at the same time using the opportunity to assess different structural measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e148	There have been many headlines during the fall on uses that have been destroyed and coastal communities that can be destroyed. There are serious headlines that have created uncertainty for the coastal population and uncertainty for those who are involved in coastal workplaces. 30 fishing farms went bankrupt last year. Thus, the last year was the worst bankruptcy year in Norwegian fishing industry in ten years, but the current year may be worse. The question will then be how to deal with such a situation. I can join those who today believe that the measure we are discussing is not a long-term measure to overcome the crisis we are facing. I agree. However, I do believe that there is a very necessary measure to create a robust and sound basis for the long-term transition that should be made and that should be balanced, long-term and comprehensive. I have no faith that sitting and washing my hands and letting one use after another amazement, and hope that some are left at the end, is a good basis for a long-term change. On the contrary, I believe that creating a ‘time-out’ now in the form of the type of guarantee scheme proposed here, which is short-term, could also provide a better and more robust basis for a longer-term change. A long-term transition should aim both at creating a sensible geographical structure, creating a sensible structure and balance between the large and small in industry, and at creating a commitment to developing new opportunities, not least linked to quality, niches and new products. But this is not just about the different fish farms and the workplaces associated with them. This is about the settlement along the whole coast. And I think, unlike the Progress Party, that it's actually too important for the market's seas to sort it out. There's probably one of the core points of the disagreement between the Center Party and the Advance Party. I think it is too important for the market to be allowed to settle in that sea, when this is about individuals, where they will live, and where they will live in this country. This is about coastal settlement and coastal workplaces. I have noticed that in the speeches from the government parties there has been some disagreement about what is the cause of the problem you are in the middle of. The Christian People's Party emphasises that these are the framework conditions relating to high prices and high interest rates, which are the cause of some of the problems faced by fishing farms. Right-wing speakers on their side say that there is overcapacity here that is the problem, and then get applause from the Progress Party in the same breath. I have to say that I think it's a bold challenge, both to the industry's sea and to the political environment, to say that here it's an overcapacity. Then you go quite high on the track, and then the natural follow-up question is said to be: if it is that the Right Party and the Advance Party believe that there is overcapacity in fishing, and they think it is quite right that one use after another is now blaring on its own, I also think they should be honest enough to tell us who it is going to be gone, and how many more it is going to be gone, so that those who live along the coast will know where to lose the job, and where it may be that you have to move from. It is not about jobs in a close labour market where there is an alternative. There is a great deal of talk about jobs where there are few alternative employment opportunities, and it is about living in those areas that this is about. So if you're going to go as high on the track as the Right Speakers in particular have done, you're also going to have to be honest and say which ones are going to go away in the next round, which jobs it's going to go beyond. I had hoped that through the proposal that the Workers' Party has put on the table, we could have come to an agreement on a measure that could have given a breathing room more in the short term in relation to a part of those who are now struggling and which could have provided a basis for a joint discussion between the government, big business and industry on how to cope with a more holistic and long-term transition. Unfortunately, on behalf of the Centre Party, I have to say that this is not the case. It's unfortunate, in my opinion. In this way, once again, we have given ourselves an opportunity to steer a development in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e161	I believe that the proposal for a guarantee scheme for fish buyers is in place. It should have been taken up a long time ago. I'm in the finance committee myself. We've been involved in shutting down Norway's Bank's offices. Physically, the offices are there, but they do not fit in with the structure of the Bank of Norway, and therefore they had to be closed down. The parties to the proposers have voted in favour of this. We had that buffer that those who needed a loan could go to the Bank of Norway and get a loan. Those offices should never have been closed. When they were closed, we were on our way up in the industry, but we know that the industry that I represent is fluctuating. It goes up, and it goes down. The current government and the majority in this room have been committed to the centralisation of banking. We have agreed that the savings banks, the cooperative banks, will become a limited liability company. We know that there are banks that have areas in this country where money is not to be lent, neither to house, nor to garage, nor to fish that hang on their heels or are in salt. By the way, it is not possible to make money on having the fish lying in salt, it is now its case. But that's how it is in this industry. It goes up a little bit, and it goes down a little bit. But we know at the same time that we're structuring the banks away from this industry. I have to ask, how long is District Norway going to carry the central cities on its back? We've done it to date, but it doesn't benefit without capital. I think that the proposal that has been put on the table, which has been discussed in the Economic and Social Committee, is quite timely. Those who do not have access to capital otherwise must have the opportunity to borrow money. Now we can say that the proposal is a little late. Fishing is over when we make final decisions. Then the loot fishing is over, but then we have again oursorsh fishing on the Finnland coast. At the same time, we know that the responsibility for the delivery of the fish has been removed from the sea fishing fleet and left to the coastal fleet, because it has to fish 25 pst. after 1 September. We haven't experienced such a fish since 1997. That's $34 million. kr more to fish the 25 percent after 1 September, because the fish has lost. It's gotten smaller in Finnmark, and it's lost in value. It's not roe and it doesn't live in it, and there's more to oil consumption. Why was it that the sea fishing fleet was deprived of its responsibility for delivery and it was left to the coastal fleet? I have not received an answer to that yet. That's one of the things. Today, when the fish buyers do not have enough capital, it is because they do not get to borrow money from those banks that have already set a red line across the district. I think the proposal is good. Finally, I have to say a few words about supplies in the districts. This applies to all districts which need to have fuel for tractors, for boats, for skirs and for the larger vessels. Tanker cars must be rented with a ferry, and there will be expensive fuel they will get on Værøy, on Røst, on Fedje and “you name it”. They just don't get tankers to go to those districts, and they get expensive raw materials. The big boats can go to the central ports and get the bunker full tank, which has the agreements with the big companies. I hope the government takes it inwards. What will the government do with the districts that get so expensive raw material? And what will it do to defend the people who don't get income and who don't make the payments on the house and the house? What measures will the Council of State take to ensure that they are all given?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e176	The Government shares the concern expressed by the representatives behind the proposal. The fishing industry, and in particular the processing industry, is in a difficult time with impaired liquidity and profitability, even bankruptcy. However, it has to be added that unfortunately there is a situation with which many Norwegian businesses, in particular the export-oriented industry, are struggling. This challenge has been met by the Government with a policy to which the business community subscribes. State guarantees are not the solution, in particular when the proposal takes the view that the guarantees are to be assessed in relation to risks, and adds that guarantees are to be granted only to firms that are creditworthy, and there should be no State subsidies linked to the scheme. Who, then, can benefit from them? This year’s cod fishing has been good – it has been very good. Good availability and efficient vessels have given large weekly catches. It's a paradox that good fishing has become a problem. We have, as we know, had to stop cod fishing for parts of the coastal fleet as a result of the quota being taken. Thus, despite record fishing, there have been no visible problems with turnover due to lack of operational credits. In other words, the problem that was to be solved with the proposal did not arise in the scope envisaged by the proposers – fortunately, I would add. I believe that the rapporteurs too agree with that. But I might recommend the representative Arnstad to go a little bit behind the numbers, when she refers to 30 fishing industry companies going bankrupt last year. It'll probably be a slightly more nuanced picture when you look at what businesses it was. So through this year's regulation, we have managed to ensure year-round operation for most of the fishing fleet, and it certainly helps to strengthen the industry's survival. For the groups of vessels below 15 metres, no periodicisation has been introduced either. Nor is it for the sea fishing fleet, but it turns out that it has a delivery pattern that helps us keep the wheels running in companies all over the country. The solution by allowing all fishing to take place in winter, as some recommend, will not strengthen the industry’s viability, for example. in Finnmark. Such cooperation is mutually beneficial, as the country side is thus given increased regularity in deliveries while at the same time helping to ensure a better price for fishermen. It contributes to employment in the fishing vessels. Such an approach strengthens the quality focus and market adaptation, giving room for better performance across the whole value chain. For the groups comprising the large coastal fishing vessels – those over 15 metres, i.e. the groups for which cod fishing has now been stopped – the department has chosen to periodically, as a tool for spreading supplies beyond the year, primarily for industry. The remaining parts of this year's quota will be taken after 1 September, and in parallel with cod fishing, we also have fishing for other species, such as sea and hake. It is important to keep it going, in order to keep the industry going. The background to the proposal set out in Document No. 8:52, the fear of difficulties in sales resulting from an assumed lack of operational credit to cover the purchase of fish by the industry. In my letter to the nutrition committee of 14 February this year, I have explained why I do not consider it appropriate to set up the proposed State guarantee scheme. I think it's worth noting that the main organization of the fishing industry, the FHL industry and export, has been and is of the same opinion. So how has the reserve been under the record cod fishing so far this year? Well, as I say, it hasn't been the visible sales problems. Where it has been, it has been on a much smaller scale than you could fear. Having said that, I must also add that of course I do not intend to minimize the situation. These are examples of the fact that there is strained liquidity on the land side and that it has created problems. I am, among other things, in the last days it has been informed that some Sun-Murder buyers have encountered problems due to insufficient liquidity, operating credits and/or lack of credit insurance. Overall, however, the extent does not seem to have been significantly greater than what we have seen in previous years. The difficulties encountered by the industry are mainly due to the combination of very good cod fishing and industrial production constraints during periods of large quantities of fish. Norway’s raw fish stocks have also introduced weekly quotas, for some areas, to adapt the fish to the production capacity of the farms, thus helping to keep the wheels going, by not getting a catch and a capping. The quota share of the two main groups of vessels has been caught and traded in a very short time. This shows that up to now the operational credit of the companies has not been a limiting factor in the closure of the fisheries. Since the proposal on State guarantees for operating credits to the fishing industry was promoted at the end of January of this year, we have also seen some signs of improvement in the framework conditions. However, it is clear that winter’s fishing has been closed without any significant marketing problems, so I am pleased that the problem described in the proposal did not arise to the extent that one could fear.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e205	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e208	I have registered that the right-wing parties here today have not registered any support for this proposal around the country. That's not the impression I'm left with. We have both newspaper headlines and write from all parts of the country supporting this proposal. Now it is that the Workers' Party is very often accused of just criticizing and not making suggestions to remedy the dramatic situation we have in the entire industry and in employment in the country per year. today. This proposal is one of the examples of constructive proposals promoted by the Workers' Party to remedy the situation. However, I note that the Government does not like this proposal very much either. One point of light is that the Council of State shares our perception and concern about the situation along the coast as it now unfolds. My question will then be: what will the Government actually do for those coastal communities that are very hard hit by the crisis we are now in, and are about to destroy the entire community? In many other contexts, we have both the means of conversion and the measures of conversion. Can you imagine going into such conversion measures for these communities, which are so badly affected?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e217	In the eagerness to defend a proposal to which the industry to be helped refuses, one can easily fall for the temptation to use large words. The ‘dramatic situation’ of the fishing industry is, ‘relieve the situation’, ‘to destroy the entire community’ is the expression used by the representative Arnesen. I have to ask, when we look at the closure of a record good fishing in winter: where is this dramatic situation? This is a description of a situation that has not occurred. I think we should be happy about that instead of drawing a picture that's actually not right. But there are companies that have problems, and it is natural from the situation in which all export industries are located. In the case of communities facing problems because they are unilaterally dependent on the fishing industry, we have had it in the lifetime of this government, and we have gone into the instruments of cooperation between the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Fisheries to remedy the situation. The South Island is such an example, where both the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Local Affairs went into and got rid of the situation. But, as I said, the record fishing in winter has shown that there are no reserve problems due to the lack of operational credit that is the cause of the problems described. So the problems have not arisen at the level envisaged by the proposers. I think that's good, and then I think we should enjoy it instead of drawing a picture that doesn't match reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e228	I don't think I or the Council know what kind of picture the proposers had of how the year's fishing was going to be phased out, and what kind of consequences it would have for the industry. I can't help but see how the Council of State can comment on it. I have to say that as a resident of a municipality that is in a very dramatic situation because of the situation in the fish processing industry, I wonder if I and the Council of State are living in the same reality. The council itself has gone out and said that 30 companies have gone bankrupt without having to nuance what type of business it has been. So he puts that responsibility on the representative Arnstad here today, I can't fully understand. I must honestly admit that because if the Council of State said in its main post that he did not feel the need to minimize the situation, I must say that in the reply to the representative Arnesen, that was exactly what happened. The picture is nuanced, and the councillor, who has the expertise and the knowledge that the department has in the back, should of course nuance the image. But I have to say that the situation for a whole range of coastal communities is very dramatic. I can't understand what interest the Council of State should have in expounding it. From the Right Party and the Christian People's Party today, there have been some alternative proposals for the proposal on the table. The right-wing spokesperson said in his speech that overturning the risk on fishermen by extending the warranty period would have to be a plentiful proposal. I wonder if the Council of State agrees with that, and if there's something like a challenge to the Norwegian Raw Fish Team to take the initiative. The progress party and the Right have gone into two stages and said that the overcapacity that is in the industry today must be cleared up. Is the Council of State agreeing on that as well, and is this what we who live in the societies that are actually being affected by evolution today should have as comfort? In addition to that, I would say that I hope that, at a later stage, we can have a more constructive debate on long-term conversion in the Norwegian fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e241	I am not debatable at all – and I am pleased to be confirmed by the last speaker – the situation in which the fishing industry is. But let's look at it, because it may be necessary when we hear the debate, what this proposal was supposed to contribute to. Well, that was to remedy the situation with regard to the purchase of fish, because one feared that there would be a credit shortage, and in that way the fishing would not be possible in winter. We can see that there has been a record good fishing, in part the quota has been taken, and the fishing has had to stop. But there has not been any stop in fishing, so there has been no need for these guarantee schemes. And what would these guarantee schemes have helped, when it is clearly said from the proposers that this should be given to companies that are creditworthy, that there should be no subsidy element in it, and when the industry itself clearly states that State guarantees would lead to distortions of competition? That's how you could imagine that if one, two companies got a state guarantee, the banks would demand a state guarantee for everyone. On the other hand, there is a more active policy that can address the problems faced by the fishing industry, and that is an economic policy. It's market policy, it's structuring, it's regulation, it's moderate wage making, it's innovation, and it's the instrument that can contribute to it, and in all those areas, the government has put in place strong instruments and policies, and it's producing results. But it will not produce results with a guarantee scheme in a fish that has proved not to stop, fortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e248	Some of us have gradually become used to hearing that we should have gone home and read the homework better and gained better knowledge. I was told today by the Council of State about the 30 uses that have gone bankrupt. I think that is reason to say that I am based on the figures and statements made by the Minister for Fisheries. Then he may have nuanced it a little later, but he has done so after the fishing magazine, of all, went into the matter. I can agree that there may be a little different use of figures related to the uses that went bankrupt, but don't complain that I'm picking up the numbers from unhealthy sources or unauthorized sources when I pick up the figures from the Minister of Fisheries. The centre batch has underlined the need for a long-term conversion related to the fishing industry. But it's important to us that it happens in a neat way, and it's hard to understand that there should be some lucky starting point because one now lets the strongest or greatest units get through the fight, while others are going to amaze, and then one on that basis is going to start a long-term transition. I don't think so. On the other hand, I believe that the kind of system we have in the fishing industry today could have been the transitional system that could have laid the foundation for a longer-term transition. I record that there is no basis for discussing with the Right Party and the Advance Party in the Chamber. The Minister for Fisheries received a question from the representative Elvik, whom I would like to repeat. It is linked to the overcapacity of the fishing industry in which the representative Kristiansen lived. I would like to know if the Council of State agrees that there is such overcapacity. Does he think anything about how to reduce overcapacity, which businesses are going to disappear, and which coastal communities may have to rely on job losses in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e257	I see no reason why Arnstad's representative was supposed to be hurt, I didn't suggest that she go home and read the homework. But when you link the bankruptcy last year of 30 companies related to the fishing industry to the guarantee scheme, I mean to have coverage to say that it has to be nuanced, because the 30 companies would not qualify for this scheme that we are dealing with today, and that is what I mean by nuanced the picture. In a way, the 30 companies cannot be drawn up as proof that this operational credit system was needed. In that case, at least the operational credit system must be set up far different from that provided by the proposers. When it comes to overcapacity, I'm going to say two things. A little while ago we dealt with in this hall St.meld. No 12 for 2001-2002 on clean and rich seas, and in this context where the Committee clearly indicates that there is overcapacity in the Norwegian fishing industry, and that capacity needs to be adapted on the fishing side and in so far as the industrial side, which is a consequence of it, corresponds to the resource base we have. The government will present a big message on Friday, setting out measures to improve capacity and resource adaptation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e264	I understand it so that I can interpret the Council of State there that he almost unwinds the crisis that is along the coast and that is signaled very strongly. When I have said and taken in my mouth such strong words as I have done, it is not to blackify, but it is to convey an opinion and an experience along the coast as the Council of State and we others must be able to take inwards. When Norway’s Fiskarlag, the Råfisk Team, the Coastal Fisheries Team, the Norwegian Maritime Association, the Troms County Council and many others have pointed out that this is the situation, the Government and we in the Stortinget must be able to take this situation inward and be willing to take action and measures to ensure that both single families, businesses and communities survive in a difficult situation. It's always been like this, as the representative Bastisen said, that it's gone up and down in this industry. But you've been willing to put in the tools to remedy the situation, and I don't want us to ruin the coast through bankruptcy and through the downtimes of the industry. That is why I again ask the Council of State to try to show understanding of the signals coming from the coast in all parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e274	Both the Minister of Fisheries and the Government show a great deal of understanding of the problems that are along the coast and in an export-oriented industry such as the fishing industry. However, the guarantee scheme proposed, which we are discussing today, is an instrument that is not appropriate in relation to the problems, and the companies themselves v/FHL make it quite clear that they do not believe that this is a tool to solve the problems we are facing. So when you draw it as a consequence that you destroy the coast by not adopting it, you make use of words and concepts and descriptions that are out of proportion here, the more like one of the proposers, the representative Arnesen, even says that this is a scheme to give to the companies that are creditworthy. Well, if they're creditworthy, they get credit. This shall be a scheme which shall not involve State subsidies. But it's distorting competition, and that means state subsidies. That's why the companies get caught. That's why the government has set up an economic policy that is now starting to work. Three short-term interest reductions, 1 1/2 percentage points, are something that monks in the indebted industry and the fishing industry. Taxes and charges have been reduced. We have strong efforts in terms of market conditions: the salmon agreement, which is about to be concluded, the EU enlargement, where the Government is strongly involved with the industry and prevents new market barriers, the WTO negotiations, free trade agreements, and what we do in terms of regulation to reduce overcapacity, will produce better results than anything else in order to achieve profitability in industry. And through the periodicizations we've made on the regulations, we make sure that the industry is given the opportunity to have year-round production, and that contributes to profitability.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e279	I would have been too good to take the floor in this reply, but I think the proposal is timely. That FHL, which is an association of the larger fish farms, opposed that it should be a state guarantee scheme, you just have to bow down to. But it's just that the small fish farms need a better solution than what we have today. Many people are waiting for the Storting to deal with this proposal, and many are waiting for it to become a guarantee scheme. I have to ask the Council of State if he's waiting for bankruptcy. Is he waiting for the receipts not to buy fish? Is that what he's waiting for? Is it then time to jump to and provide warranty arrangements? Isn't it necessary to have some overcapacity in the rich fish we've had today? Of course it's necessary. Of course, it is necessary that the receipts have access to capital to buy fish to hang on the heel and tear off the backbone and sprinkle salt on. It should only be lacking that we in Stortinget should not be able to deal with and decide that the receipts will receive the necessary guarantees and loans when they cannot obtain them from the banks they might have available. I just have to say it, so it's said that the fishermen have lost 40 pst. of its revenue by reducing its prices. At the same time, I have to say to those who are against the Norwegian raw fish layer and the raw fish law that the raw fish layer has reduced the prices of the fisherman. It was just to be lacking that you should not be paid for the fish that you were supposed to have carried on land. It should just be missing – it says about values. The fish negotiators were at least to pay for the fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e288	The representative Bastisen says that the proposal is timely. Yes, we agree – and I have tried to repeat it on several occasions now that I am also concerned about it – the problems that an export-oriented industry is struggling with today. The government is doing something about it through politics. However, I note that the instrument proposed here is not what is requested, nor will it have a device to solve a problem, because it is not a main problem that there are no guarantees and loans to get. Because, as I have said on several occasions, we have done a very good winter fishing, and it has not stopped in the purchases because of lack of credit. When the representative Bastesen referred to a reduction in first-time prices by the raw fish layer, it has to do with the market in particular, it has nothing to do with a lack of credit or anything else. So this is probably where you mix the cards a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e296	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e301	Through the proposal to establish a State guarantee scheme for operational credit in the fishing industry, the Workers' Party has asked Stortinget to address the dramatic situation in the fishing industry. The fishing industry in the country's largest fishing provinces, More and Romesdal, has reported in a way that should arouse both government and greatness. Sun mortars and Romsdal Fiskerlags say, among other things. This in a letter to the magnificence and government, and I will ask the representative Solholm specifically to listen to this, since he had received the signals: ‘For the past 8 - 9 months, four to some large fishing industry holdings, with a total of about 200 employees, here in the district gone bankrupt. All these businesses were important jobs in their municipalities and, in addition, an important catchment of fish from the fishing fleet in our district. Per. none of these companies started up again. However, it may be added that the largest of these four holdings, Sunnmørsfisk AS in Fosnavåg, will start up again within a few days.» The letter is dated 7 March 2003. Furthermore, it is stated that: ‘In addition, it is difficult for purchasers to finance the purchase of fish that is necessary for the normal closure of the seasonal fisheries. According to information we are in the possession of Sunnmøre and Romsdal Fish Sales Team, the buyer's credit framework today is approx. 60 million. crowns.’» It is also said that the private banks do not have the desire or the ability to enter and grant the necessary credits. Therefore, the Fiskerlage refers to the proposal of the Landfill Representatives Arnesen, Sandal, Kristoffersen and Schjøtt-Pedersen to establish a system of State guarantees for operational credit in the fishing industry. They say it would be a good tool to solve the situation that the fishing industry is now in. So this says the fishermen's trustees, who you'd think had both legs on the deck and on the berth. Although our proposal does not solve all the problems in the fishing industry, it is a long way to ensure that the onshore receiver is able to accept the fish. In such a situation, it is incomprehensible that the representatives of the government parties and the Progress Party would not support the proposal on state credit schemes, which would solve the most acute problems in industry. This becomes even more incomprehensible when both the government parties and the Progress Party are represented in the Trade Committee with representatives from More and Romesdal. The situation has been further exacerbated since we made our proposal. It is therefore very regrettable that this completely necessary proposal does not get a majority in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e324	Without relying on special expertise, the president will believe that if you have legs on the deck and berth at the same time, it is a prerequisite that you are well moored.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e327	Yes, I think so!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e332	– And does not intend to lay off the berth.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e335	The fishing industry is in a very difficult economic situation. These are not just my words and those of the Labour Party. This is the message from fishermen and representatives from the fish salads along our entire coast. Very many fish buyers come forward with the same vision. What must be done when parts of the fishing industry ask for emergency help? We need to put in place targeted measures that can lead us out of the major difficulties that the industry is experiencing. Therefore, the Labour Party has proposed immediate action. The proposal will enable the fishing industry to get out of the mess it is currently in. New bankruptcies can be averted. Fish can be sold at a useful price. Adding fish containers may come back to work. The industry can get a positive stimulus in a difficult time. We can get the wheel back on. Fishing industry is a crumb along large parts of our coast. It gives work to many both at sea and on land. Very many of those who get their output from the fishing boat or from the fishing industry do not have alternative jobs to go to. This is the case for the fisherman and the female fillet worker in Vågsøy. Just like that, it is for those who live in Berlevåg, who pick up the income from the boat or from the fish reception. The alternative for these people is unemployment, which in this case is not necessary if the regime allows the fish to be translated and processed. We lack an active industrial policy in our country. The government is passive. The thing we're now discussing, is just confirming it. Our proposal does not involve any subsidisation. Only creditworthy companies will benefit from the scheme that we propose. It shall not favour any district. We're taking an initiative to help an industry in great difficulty. These are active industrial policies. With this, we show the will to bet on our coastal communities. There is a great potential. Here we can contribute to obtaining large export revenues. We are thus making a great contribution to sustaining the settlement, especially in highly fisheries-dependent areas in the West and North Norway. Often we hear that Right refers to itself as the entrepreneurial party. In this case, Right passivity shows. In the past, the Christian People's Party has been an active participant in maintaining activity in our districts. It's no longer like that. The party has changed course and has chosen a new side of politics. I think many people along the coast will notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e352	I note with great interest that the Labour Party did not choose to give priority to this matter where it belongs, namely in the 2003 budget. I also register that the Workers' Party, together with SV and the Center Party, now chooses to conduct a dialogue on this so-called death list of who has to bleed. They ask the rhetorical question when I refer to the above-mentioned term ‘overcapacity’, whether I can refer to who is going to disappear in that case. This illustrates that one has a static political thinking, which I must be allowed to return in such a way that it is not a political task – fortunately – to point to which businesses should live and not live for the future. It becomes a paradox when one chooses to ignore the fact that in the course of four to five years most fish processing farms in the country have lost, for example, between 200,000 and 300,000 tonnes of cod for further processing. You've lost what was the basis of the entire existence. At the same time, we have seen that the Workers' Party has pursued an industrial policy that has been so hostile that it has driven competitive enterprises almost systematically to the brink of bankruptcy. So when you left the ship, you would have put Norway at the top of Europe's interest rates. It is clear that with the krone price that the Norwegian competitive industry would handle, it became an impossible task. For the 14 farms that went down on the processing side in 2002 and the five so far this year, according to the Fiskeriblad, this is the main reason, and together with less quantities of fish for processing, they have unfortunately gone through the shift. That there are more people who are further processing Norwegian salmon abroad than here in the country, does not seem to worry the representative Marit Arnstad, but to me it is a paradox. I think we could have put a lot of hands in turn if we had been willing to take care of the interests in the market where Norwegian fish are going to be fine. Finally. When I have seen that the Norwegian fleet of raw fish has been the institution that has perhaps been most in favour of this guarantee, which has advised us to go on a state guarantee, it is a paradox that they themselves demand a guarantee from the buyer, and that they demand a settlement period of a maximum of ten days. It is clear that when a company to further process and manage needs to have two to three months to get the money back, it is almost a hopeless task if you live with lost equity. Therefore, I believe that Norway’s raw fish teams and the fishing industry themselves can make an effort that will more than compensate for what the country might have been able to contribute to in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e368	After the speeches by the representative Kristoffersen, I felt the need to make a brief comment. It was shown that four large companies in Møre have gone bankrupt, and that this would be an example that if you had government-guaranteed operating credits, you would have been able to continue. As a rule, bankruptcy is the result of a lack of profitability and guarantees do not contribute to profitability but to liquidity. Profitability is not improved by the fact that the two speakers of the Workers' Party, Sandal and Kristoffersen, are now strongly stressing that these schemes should not have any subsidy element and that they should be for creditworthy enterprises. So the companies that have gone bankrupt have not been creditworthy, so you have to change the criteria for the proposal you made. Some confuse liquidity with profitability. Lack of liquidity is usually the result of low profitability. Then we have to do something about profitability, and I invite the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, together with the government parties and the Progress Party, to take the steps to be taken in economic policy, as we did in the budget, that we pursue a tight budgetary policy that is just helping to reduce the cost level of businesses. A government liquidity injection does not provide any better profitability. It's just postponing the problem. That's why we can't go into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e379	I have been sitting and listening to the debate and could not dare to take the floor. When representatives from the Right owe the minority here in the Chamber to pursue static political thinking when a political approach to mining industry, I would say again that there is at least the same political static way of thinking about resolving the market. So who is the most static, I think we can argue about to quite far out at night here today. It's right-wing mantra that the market is going to sort out the whole thing, the same thing, and on all fronts. But what happens then is that it's the big ones in the fishing industry that decide what the structure of the fishing side is going to look like, and not a district policy target on busses and business throughout the district, and I don't think that Right is even starting from the bus target in the district policy. Otherwise, I am also surprised that several of the nutrition committee's members have not received a signal about the crisis that has occurred – at least I have received countless telephones, countless letters and e-mails from especially fishermen and fish salads in my district, both south and north of the city, which is also the area of the representative of Solholm from the Progress Party, and I find it strange that he has not received the same visit. But it may have something to do with who has hope of clearing up the problems. It was a fisherman who called me in January. He said that it is not helpful that we have the fishing times when I might not be able to deliver my fish in March. Should I bet on traveling on Lofotfiske if I can't deliver the fish on land? A fisherman must think of the same line as other dieters in the long term, and especially skippers on the small coastal vessels have a crew to care for, and they have families on land to support. So a certain long-term planning has to be possible. And then it's clear that it's too late to turn around when the bankruptcy has hit as hard as we could fear that he would hit. We must all be happy, as the Minister for Fisheries says, that he does not have such a hard frame. But it's too late to turn around when the crisis has a frame, because then the fisherman stands there without an option. Therefore, it must be our responsibility to intervene when we see signs of such a situation. And if the guarantee scheme wouldn't have been used, the money would have been there. But the point is that the solution was there for those who needed her. SV does not support the proposal of the labour party representatives to soften the individual party in this room, on which Ivar Kristiansen was involved. We support the proposal because it is SV policy. We're doing SV policies every day, on the same line as I assume right-wing representatives are doing, and not to soften other parties in this room. We actually think we're too good at that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e392	The President hopes that the suggestion that this debate can continue far beyond night was not meant to be an appeal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e395	The Christian People's Party takes seriously the problems reported from the coastal districts. We will include: Both banks are still showing delays in bankruptcy, as I have seen some tendencies. I believe that such a holding from the banking community to give the fishing industry a chance to get a new boost could be a better solution than this proposal. The reason for my post was also what the representative Sandal said when he claimed that the government and government party were conducting a passive industrial policy. I have to say that I think it's a little strange when the big tune from the opposition last fall when we were going to have a tight budget was that we all failed, and that we didn't have enough for most good purposes. This was the price for achieving better conditions of competition for this industry. When we have now achieved that the interest rate is down, that the crown price is in place, and that the salmon agreement is on the way out, we hear that we are passive. First we get criticism to do something. Once the result is achieved, we get a new criticism that we are passive. It's a little hard for me to understand the logic. At the same time, we are being criticised for regional policy. It is a criticism that the Christian People's Party has not received in the last year. Suddenly he appears now without any warning. The government has implemented a policy that I believe is helping to support the districts in a difficult fight against central magnets. We have appointed a district commission, and we have an active, good dialogue with the districts to facilitate good development and slow down centralisation. That's why I want to distance myself from the characteristics that were given by the Christian People's Party in particular. My final point is that this proposal does not work. It is produced as if this would solve a problem in the fisheries industry, but at the same time the proposers say that only credit should be given to those in the fisheries industry who are creditworthy. But that's what the banks have to give, not the state. One should not grant subsidies. A Member State shall not impose any specific framework conditions that distort competition. Then the conclusion for my part is clear: this is a proposal that does not make. Then it's a little hard to use such strong words. It may be nice to say hello, but it does not help an outsourced industry that we should jointly try to help with more possessive and directly accurate tools. Both the Christian People's Party and the Government are then prepared to do so to the extent that this occurs. I see the problems and I want to be able to find targeted solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e407	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2357]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e415	The store is ready to go to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e422	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Synnøve Konglevoll on behalf of the Workers' Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 2 by Mr Korsberg, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3–5, 7 and 8 from Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President noted that proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party, is drawn. The President assumes that it can be voted on in conjunction with the SV's proposals. Proposals Nos. 3 to 5 and proposals Nos. 7 and 8, from the Socialist Left Party, is being taken up to vote. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to step up efforts to clean up contaminated sediments and, in the context of the 2003 Revised State Budget, to increase the appropriations for this work.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The size calls on the Government to present during the autumn of 2004 a big message on how Norwegian aquaculture industry is to be ensured a much stronger environmental adaptation in the further growth through an operationalised sustainability strategy.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget with its own notification of sea grazing, which will show how sea grazing can be operated sustainably in line with the precautionary principle, and without reducing the rights of all persons or repressing other economic operators.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to introduce rules for ballast water management during 2003. All ships wishing to go to Norwegian port must indicate where the ballast water comes from, the time of day it was pumped up and the depth from which it comes.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government, in the context of the 2004 State Budget, to assess the establishment of a Northern Region Centre to contribute to increased cooperation between Norway and Russia, as well as to increase efforts for environmental monitoring and control in the North.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e476	Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to establish a traffic centre for North Norway and to place it on Reitan.It shall be the task of the Coastal Authority to operate traffic monitoring.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e493	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present during 2003 a stepping-up plan that realistically eliminates PCB and heavy metal sediments from Norwegian ports and fjords within a 10-year period.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e528	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e535	During the debate, Ms Arnstad has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Size Asks of the Government: take the initiative of the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission to introduce a management target to keep the royal crab stock as low as possible. Such measures may include, for example, free fishing, catch premium, prohibition on discards and the authorisation of catch in hocrabs.ta initiatives of the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission for catch quotas large enough to manage the royal crab as undesirable in Norway.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e570	During the debate, Ivar Kristiansen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:52 [[2002-2003]] An alternative is to vote between this proposal and the vote I.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e604	There will then be a vote on the Committee's position on II.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e607	It is stated in the minority proposal, which was adopted, that the proposal ‘must be rejected’. The vote on the motion for a resolution reads as follows: 'host to be attached to the Minutes'. It must be regarded as a mistake.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e614	The President is inclined to believe that it has to be right. This must mean that the administration has made mistakes for once. It almost sounds incredible, but it has to be right. These are alternative proposals, and the alternative voting is to understand as the representative Kristiansen just described. So the position of the Committee on II is going to go away.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e644	The President proposes that this matter be sent to the Energy and Environment Committee, which shall submit its draft opinion to the Committee on Transport before the vote is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e647	As Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, I would like to say that this is a matter which should not initially be the responsibility of this Committee. It is likely that the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs should have it, in particular. I do not know what the procedure is for this, but naturally, a matter of racial protection should go to the Committee on Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e654	The proposal, in the form it has been promoted, not only refers to issues related to racial hazards on the road but has a significant scale, including a scale with societal implications. The Presidency therefore found, when considering this matter, that the committee responsible for the social consequences and also the planning and building law and the laws that otherwise fall under this must be the right committee to deal with this. However, because the proposal also affects racial hazards on the road, we found it reasonable that the draft vote should be sent to the Committee on Transport for an opinion before the final vote. The Presidency shall maintain its procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25-2.ana.ud2351e661	Are these alternative proposals? – It is not, and the Presidency’s proposal is unanimous. Further references were made:
