ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e76	The called alternate of the Akershu County, Ib Thomsen, has taken the seat. There is an application from the Workers' Group for sick leave for the representative Synnøve Konglevoll as from 16 December and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative Knut Werner Hansen is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e99	Knut Werner Hansen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e113	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e120	Document No The 8 proposal from SV, which we are dealing with today, has its background in the unfortunate developments we are seeing in the coastal zone. The dividing lines between the lots are also well known: the working part and the SV on one side and the other parts on the other side. We are still reminded by concrete examples of how difficult access to the beach zone is too many. It's due to several things, but the fact that an increasingly large part of the beach sona is being built is an important reason for this. Fuzzy and too strict rules on where people have the right to travel are another reason. Illegal fences, which are allowed to stand, are a third reason. In the news of outdoor life presented by the Stoltenberg government in spring 2001, the Workers' Party called for changes to the laws to strengthen the rights of all persons and to limit the construction of beach areas. When the Storting processed the message, this was also supported by SV. While the Workers' Party and SV called about the right of all-men and ordinary peoples to live outdoors, the bourgeois parties were calling about the basic ownership interests. Where we proposed action, the majority were content to follow developments. Now it's been two years since that time, and I have to say I'm not sure how evolution has been followed. Opinions from various representatives of the government parties indicate that this must be very varied. Let me do some examples. On 13 May this year, the Chairman of the Committee, Brother Yngve Rahm, delivered the following opinion: «I believe we need to close the loopholes that exist so that it is not so easy to obtain a derogation». A few months later, he and the rest of the members of the Committee from the Government Parties and the Progress Party write in the setting of the State Environmental State of the State "that development can be said to be under control". This makes the government parties in the setting of a big message where the government itself writes that, with reference to the outdoor news, it will strengthen the right of all persons to follow up the proposals for legislative changes. But it may not be so strange, because just days after the announcement of the state's environmental status, the Minister for the Environment said in a press release that the situation could be said to be under control. This is done on the basis of figures showing that fewer exemptions have been granted from the construction ban in the last six months of 2002 than in the first six months. According to my concepts, this is an extremely thin basis for claiming that the situation is under control — especially when it is written in the same press release that there are usually fewer dispensations in the second half of the year. The thing is, for every year that goes, an increasingly large part of the beach zone is being built, and in many areas there are only the inaccessible places that are not now built. Presenting it as a development under control and a positive development, as the Minister for the Environment does, is a special way of reading statistics. On this issue, I have also often heard the Council of State argue that most exemptions have been granted to replacement buildings and minor modifications of existing buildings. I would like to remind you that, according to the Council of State's own press release, a derogation was granted to nearly 700 new buildings in 2002. We know what the numbers say when it comes to the whole 1982-1999 period. A change of laws now won't change this, but the point is that the beach zone is now so populated that for that reason it is necessary to tighten legislation. We cannot, in the opinion of the Workers' Party, have a legislation and a practice in which the practice actually erodes the whole law. And then it doesn't keep talking. It does not hold that representatives from the government parties are out every summer and say that something has to be done. And every time we find that when the Workers' Party and the SV have proposals in this Chamber to do concrete things in this area, we are downplayed. The Labour Party believes that many of the proposals made in Document No. 8:134 from SV, are good suggestions. We also believe that they can be very appropriate. When we do not want to support them as they are today, it is because we believe that the Government, by working on a matter on this, should also consider whether it will be possible to make legislative changes that are even more accurate and stricter than those proposed by the proposers. On the basis of this, I address the proposal on which the Workers' Party and SV agree, and expect the majority to explain their views in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e140	The representative Sylvia Brustad has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e143	Brustad said something like that the Workers' Party and SV call about the rights of all persons, while the others call about ownership. It's at best an unsound statement. But that's not right. The rest of us clarify the rights of all as important to people's outdoor experiences, but it must be possible to have pleasant outdoor experiences without using people's interiors. It's also about respect for people's property. Last year, the Stortinget dealt with the open-air message, with a wide range of beach area problems with regard to all-person rights versus property rights, but also with concrete conditions related to the so-called 100-metre belt. Since then, Stortinget has also dealt with the state of the country's environment, where coastal zone problems were also the subject. In both of these cases, there appears to be a clear majority who see no reason to change today’s legislation related to this, nor the regulations and guidelines that have been provided as a basis for the treatment of municipal plans. Nevertheless, several SV representatives in this document promote No. The 8-proposal for a series of proposals on legislative changes and other orders to the Government for which they have recently addressed the same issue in the UK should know that there is no majority in favour, rather on the contrary. These are proposals and a political course SV is on its own, and the Stortinget will not accept them later today by a large majority. However, even the proposal on which the Workers' Party and SV agree, which calls on the Government to propose changes to the law with a view to tightening the dispensation practice with regard to the construction ban in the 100-metre belt, is not supported by a majority. As in the previous cases, we see in the setting – perhaps more clearly than ever – that the SV and the Workers' Party are on their own about this policy. The reason is simply that the majority of the population is satisfied with the current practice and policy in this area, and there is therefore no need to change it. I don't want to spend time going into Document No. The nine points of the 8 proposal, but I am pleased to note the fact that in most of the cases of exemption, these are changes to existing buildings or small additions and restorations. This is particularly the case in press areas along Oslofjorden and on the south coast. The majority see it as positive that people, through their ownership, manage and cultivate their properties, which are also an important part of the coastal landscape. With regard to the provisions of the Planning and Building Act, it is the majority’s view that municipalities manage them in a good manner, how sensible considerations and judgements have been made before any regulatory changes involving the beach zone are implemented. Then it's also that the wit is fairly well distributed in this country. Yes, perhaps even so that you know better locally and feel a greater total responsibility for your surroundings. I don't think they need any more dictate from us in this room. In dealing with this matter, some organisations have asked Stortinget to take the opportunity to clarify its views, as it says. And we've done that in this setting. It should now be reasonably clear what the Storting's view of this matter is. The policy lines are clear and justified, and the majority are firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e160	I'm going to be pretty brief, because this is a topic that has been much debated here in the hall, and also in the media. There we have recorded, like the rapporteur, that it has been said very differently from many parties and from individual representatives. We in the Group of the European People's Party have pointed this out in this Chamber earlier, in other debates. Now I fully agree with the previous speeches that the wit is well distributed around the country. We have many times suggested that local democracy should be able to control itself more, for there is a great difference from Inner Oslo Earth to, for example, the Finnmark Coast. The fact that SV is promoting a proposal that is an attack on private ownership is nothing new. And that it gets partial support from the Workers' Party is nothing new either. I am pleased that it is a majority who reject this proposal. But I wish you could go a little further and make sure that those who have properties have more opportunities to dispose of them at their own option. Then I would just like to refer to our comments and suggestions in relation to the handling of the outdoor communication, the communication on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state and the budget. There we have promoted a number of proposals that have been voted down. Finally, I am pleased that the proposal from SV is rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e173	I take up the SV's proposal, and then I get an evaluation during the day if you want to turn it into a transmission proposal, as the representative Brustad was about. Otherwise, I have to agree with most of the Labour Party in this matter when it comes to strengthening the rights of all people. Here's SV on the line. I would just wish it could be like that in some other things as well, as in energy and oil drilling policy. But in this case it looks good. I'm not going to spend a long time describing the situation, but I have to grips with a few things. The only thing is that the mind is well divided. Of course, SV also agrees. This is precisely why a large number of organisations and outdoor councils from all over the country, where all parties are represented, want to develop in line with what we in SV propose. Obviously, those who do not want to do so are those who are big ones from the same parts of the country. But in fact, organizations from all over the country are asking us to have a different line than we have today. The Free Air Council, FRIFO, Norway's Hunters' and Fishers' Federation – all these organisations want a development in line with what SV suggests. Yes, the wit is well distributed. The entire Committee believes that the right of all persons is the most important criterion for everyone to be able to pursue an active outdoor life and have access to the recreational area. Therefore, it becomes very strange when you do not follow this in practice, but do as Brustad says that the Government does, prioritizing ownership over all human rights. So you don't want to follow your own policy, which is that you have to organize your outdoor life. It's wrong to say someone does it. You can also go to the budget and see that this is not a priority. Just enough, the Workers' Party managed through the conciliation to push a few million to the outdoors, but it is peanuts in relation to the outdoors council and the outdoor organisations themselves require. There are also members from the Right, the Christian People's Party and other parties who make recordings of what is needed. In relation to this problem, SV has prioritised around 100 million. Kneading to open-air life – to voluntary organisations, to aggressors, to open-air areas, to nature and information centres – what one actually needs around the country. But we don't get any support in words from the other parties in this house. If the right of universal access is the most important criterion, then it must also be shown in its budget and when one has a chance like this to take decisions that will strengthen the rights of all, and where one gets people into nature, where one gets people to use nature, which is so important to everyone, as it was said. So here there's no match between words and actions in a multiple in the committee, and I'm sorry about that. As I said, SV takes up the proposals in Document No. 8:134. I would like to note that SV basically has all the organisations that run this outside the house, with them, that the wit is well distributed, and that SV probably represents it better than others.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e190	The representative Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e193	The debate on the beach zone appears at regular intervals both in the Stortinget and in the media. It is clear that there are many who are concerned that the coastal zone should be used by as many people as possible for different purposes and that no activity by individual groups prevents others from using our coastal pearls. The rights of the general public and access to these areas are a clear objective also for the government parties, and through the administrative thinking we have about this, we believe that this has been facilitated. However, as many have pointed out in previous debates and also in this, in recent years there has been a significant construction activity within the much-mentioned 100-metre belt, within which it is not initially to be built. However, we feel that some municipalities may be exempt from this construction ban too much, at least until 2002. This is a conflict theme. It shows not least the strong commitment that is triggered every time the Storting debates the matter, or that the media every summer presents statistics to show or substantiate that the beach zone as an attractive area for most people is at risk. However, statistics are very often not complementary and can therefore contribute to a somewhat unbalanced picture of the actual situation. Building in the beach zone does not necessarily mean the construction of new large buildings and the fact that ever-new areas are bound by a few at the expense of a majority. Minor adjustments and refurbishment projects are often presented in the same way as larger construction projects. The Committee discusses this issue quite regularly and in different contexts. Both the outdoor communication, the Kingdom’s environmental status and budgets are all issues where the beach area problem is involved. Today it is on the basis of a Document No. Eight proposals, which I also believe are inappropriate as a basis for greater action in most policy areas, and in particular in relation to possible legislative changes. Like the other parties, the Christian People's Party is committed to safeguarding the public's right to the beach zone. Therefore, in the context of the open-air communication process, we pointed out that the situation was worrying and that it was necessary to follow developments closely. The Minister for the Environment, for his part, expressed his wish to have a high level of attention on this issue and, if possible, to look at possible other instruments if it appears that the intention of the legislation and the practice of dispensation is not sufficiently followed up by the municipalities. This is something that the Minister for the Environment follows up in different ways. He has pointed out to the municipalities that the law must be complied with and that the right of waiver is administered in line with the intention of the law, including with regard to public rights. Nevertheless, the Government is also following this in budgetary terms, by increasing the funds available for the purchase of coastal areas that can be particularly attractive as outdoor and recreational areas. There is reason to point out that when some representatives refer to what has previously been said or not said in this debate, it is not taken into account that the state of things is changing sometimes. A winter doesn't last forever. There's usually a spring and a summer afterwards. But some parts of this hall will obviously pave the way as much in summer as in winter. The situation is that during the last six months of 2002, there was a significant change in the dispensation practices in municipalities, where this responsibility lies. And we have numbers that can substantiate that the municipalities are now more closely following the dispensation practices that we want to have in relation to the central leaders. We also have reason to believe that the developments that I consider to be positive in the last half of 2002 have been continued in 2003 and that, therefore, there should not now be a basis for new large-scale action in line with document No. The 8th proposal available. In conclusion, let me say in relation to what Sylvia Brustad was involved in his statement, that it is not right that the government parties are only engaged in land ownership interests, while the Workers' Party is only engaged in the rights of the public. The Christian People's Party and the other government parties are engaged in having two thoughts in their heads at the same time in this matter. We want a balanced approach to this issue of the coastal zone, where a main objective must be to mitigate the level of conflict between the various interest groups in this matter. In my opinion, it is best done through the policy that the Government is now pursuing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e214	It is a broad majority who agree on the main reason why this matter should not be re-examined. To me, this feels like a rematch after a matter we were dealing with quite a short time ago. I just can't see that there is a need for a new review of the Outdoor Law now. At that time, a majority said, among other things: – and I quote from a majority comment that I think compresses the whole theme: ‘The public has a responsibility to move in a considerate way — both towards the environment and towards landowners and rightholders. The landowner, for his part, has a responsibility to ensure that no obstacles are placed in the way of free movement. Both landowners and the general public have joint responsibility for combating conflicts. Conflicts should be resolved locally in accordance with national laws, regulations and administrative provisions, and local adaptations.’;» Both the rights of all persons and the landowners' side are well respected here. Luckily, this is the case where the right of universal access stands strongly both in lawmaking and in people's consciousness. It is important that the rights of all people are established and not weakened. Based on my knowledge of this topic, the necessary balance between private property rights for landowners and the incorporation of all-man rights works pretty well. Here we have a responsibility either as users or as landowners. Anyone who wants to do that will always be able to look for examples to put their finger on, but this is part of the units of rareness. I think it's important to arrest for the rights of all people, who might say something positive about us Northmen, because a right of this kind is not entirely common in European law. It is important to underline the great local variation in the pressure on the development of properties in our country. There are differences in the areas around Oslofjord and other parts of the country. While some people are concerned that there will be too much expansion, others will rejoice over a little more settlement. That is why it is important that we do not have the rules of stencil for the whole country. Local considerations shall be taken into account. I therefore believe it is right that there are areas that are subject to stricter legislation. It is such that Eastfold, Akershus, Buskerud, Vestfold and Telemark are subject to national policy guidelines for coastal and marine planning in the oslof soil region. Furthermore, national policy guidelines for the Aged coast are being worked on. And in Rogaland and Hordaland, one has chosen to manage the beach zone through special coastal zone plans. This includes ensuring access to the coastline for the general public. It is in these areas in the country where there is the greatest pressure on the use of the beach zone. So here, special guidelines have been used, and it's always going to change them. There is also reason to worry that it is the municipalities that are responsible for land planning, and then, of course, the regulation of areas for cabin construction. There's a lot of mention that the wit is so well distributed, and there's absolutely reason to notice. It would be quite serious in relation to local maritime government if the Stortinge were to go in and try it out in another area. It is an important principle for the local maritime administration that decisions must be taken almost as far as they are concerned. There is a general ban on construction in the 100-metre zone, and with today's national policy guidelines we have enough rules. Within this regulatory framework, municipalities have the freedom to assess the relationship between cabin construction and the protection of open air areas. In some places, at least in the West, one depends on using the 100-meter belt to get some activity. There are several places not more than 100 m between mountains and water. Finally, I would like to stress that the Centre Party is very positive in ensuring natural areas for outdoor life in cooperation between authorities, organisations and rightholders. Suitable areas which are released after conversions in the Defence and the Lighthouse should be set aside for all of us, seagoingly, to free areas for enjoyment and use.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e236	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e240	The Workers' Party believes that government parties choose ownership over all rights when we discuss the beach zone. The right spokesperson, Øyvind Halleraker, is clearly indignant that we are once again putting our finger on something that shows the will of the government parties to choose capital power over all human rights. He said that we clarify our opinion in the setting that is here today. Head of the Committee, Brother Yngve Rahm, said that the government's policy is the best in relation to the beach zone. We've only seen in the last year that in Westfold industrial buildings are converted into apartments, and then they're rented out a few months a year. They thus avoid the law of building in the beach zone and erode the law in that way. We've seen that Kristiansand is applying to build sea lodges as a business, and they're entering cabins and avoiding the law through it. In Stavanger this summer we actually saw one who hired security guards so that kids wouldn't be allowed to swim in the river in which he was supposed to fish. In Mandal I met a gentleman who had for 30 years applied to build a cottage. Now he had been allowed. He said it had taken his time, but he got it as he wanted, he just waited for the right majority of the local government. In environmental policy, government parties and the Minister for the Environment boast that they protect large areas. What we do in relation to expanding our beach zone is we destroy the beach zone for the public in the future. I think that is an environmental policy point that should come up in this debate. This debate has shown that both the Government and the Advance Party have again demonstrated that they choose capital and ownership over all human rights and open-air life.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e251	As I come from a typical cottage municipality, a coastal municipality called Tjøme, I think I am entitled to say a few words. I hope the President agrees. For those who don't know – but I think most people know it – there's a Empty approx. Ten miles from here, to the south, and it takes one and a half hours to drive there by car. The island municipality has 4 500 to 5 000 residents. In summertime the number of people is doubled, i.e. there are 40 000–45 000 people there. I'm going to say that for those who live at Home, it doesn't feel anything – except when you go to the store, when you meet them, but then we who live there and are used to it, do it in a different way. So this is a typical holiday and leisure municipality. I have never noticed that there is any problem with the beach zone at Tjøme. Take a boat trip around Tjøme – one will see and notice that one can go ashore almost anywhere. So it's not built up, it's a pure and sharp exaggeration. I'll end by saying that as the environmental protection manager at Tjøme, the fact that the beach zone is growing again is a bigger problem than the cabin building. I think that illustrates quite well the hysteria and the exaggeration that is around the cabin construction and the construction of the beach zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e262	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1395]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e278	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes for the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes for each of the other parties. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e287	Our regional health companies and health companies are responsible for making available annual appropriations that are fast approaching NOK 60 billion. This money is to be used to give our entire population an equivalent health service based on our health legislation and guidelines for prioritising patients. St.meld. No 5 for 2003-2004 provides guidance for the further development of a solidarity and effective health system. The Social Committee agrees on important broad lines in most areas. I expect those who have different views in individual areas to justify their position. The basic thing is that the income system supports the responsibilities assigned to regional health enterprises, such as: as a consequence, regional health establishments are recipients of the State's appropriations and are then responsible for their disposal with a high degree of freedom. A system is provided to support free hospital choice with information on waiting times, incentives for effective treatment, research and use of activity-based grants to those performing patient treatment. Private health services are complementary to public health services and shall have predictable financial arrangements once the regional health establishments have agreed with them. The Committee broadly agrees with the key principles set out in the Communication. I mention the main income model for regional health enterprises with input-driven funding as a supporting element. We do not agree on the percentage distribution between basic appropriations and input-driven shares. Furthermore, a large majority say that healthcare businesses should have the capacity and competence to meet the need for specialist health services throughout the country and with responsibility for the regional health provision in their region. The majority agree that research should be funded on the basis of a model that has a certain percentage as a base amount and the rest conditional on research results, but we have a slightly different view of the percentage distribution between these two elements. We agree on patient training rates, better interaction between municipal health services and specialist health services, that the feeding rooms become an organisational part of the food supply for which regional health businesses are responsible, and to obtain decentralised treatment and intervention-driven funding for specified areas such as cannabis, alcohol, alcohol, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco, tobacco and tobacco. dialysis and cell toxicity treatment. We have a somewhat different view of managing the highly specialised services. We establish the principle that the treatment journeys continue to be the direct responsibility of the State and not the responsibility of regional health companies. We have noted the Ministry's proposal for criteria for allocating funds to cover depreciation on construction and allocation of other basic appropriations. An overall committee says on page 17 of the setting: ‘Like the Ministry, the Committee considers that new cost keys with effect from 2004 could have undesirable effects on the service provision. The Committee would stress here the significant conversion requirements already on the RHF, except for the above mentioned ratio. The Committee therefore agrees that conversion starts from 2005 with phase-in over five years equivalent to that used in the income system for the municipal sector.» But many in the committee, including myself, are, like the ministry, concerned that the basis for new criteria and thus the redistribution of regions emerges from the fact that today there is a division of imbalances between the regions that need to be corrected. The ministry proves that Health West and Health Mid-Norway come out unfavorably with today's distribution key. Although the Committee has joined the five-year transitional period, I believe that the Ministry must constantly assess whether the regions that receive too little of the total appropriations need to be allocated some more resources in the course of the process so that the health supply to the population does not become worse than in other regions. For me, it is important to stress that the Workers' Party will take a final decision on new criteria for the distribution of the 2005 budget. With regard to the ISF system, the entire Committee has been committed to further developing today’s blending model with an effort-based component and a basic component, but there is disagreement about the distribution between these two. However, a majority emphasises that it is unfortunate that the unit price is retrospectively adjusted and considers that further work needs to be done on the system in order to increase the financial predictability of health-care establishments. As rapporteur-in-Office of the Council, I am pleased that, through this communication and the treatment of Storting through broad consensus in important areas, we have drawn up important lines in the development of Norwegian health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e324	It is an extensive work that precedes this wholesale communication on the financing of the specialist healthcare service. The setting of the Hagen Committee was presented almost a year ago, and the theme has since been the subject of a wide-ranging debate. It is a good rule for political work that one should not change what works. The current funding system is functioning, but there is a clear need for adjustments. Therefore, the right is satisfied that the government is getting a pass from today’s mixing model, but is correcting some unfortunate conditions. Some of the facts in the notification have been proposed to be implemented as of the 2004 budget year. These issues were discussed in the context of the budget, and I will therefore not address these issues today. After the state assumed responsibility and ownership for the specialist health service, changes to the funding system have been needed, both in order to achieve a more coherent system and to achieve a fairer distribution of resources. There are also other important issues that have changed in recent years. The government has arranged for the private part of the healthcare system, which has grown, to be part of the public offer to all. The financial system needs to be adapted to this and be more neutral in relation to the operator of the service. Other factors that have changed include national waiting lists, free hospital choice and stronger patient rights. The DRG system is now being used as a starting point for financing in very many countries. It is an international system in which Norway participates in international cooperation. This is the basis for having a share of input-driven funding. The DRG system shall be priority neutral and shall be subject to a regular update. However, it is important to bear in mind that the system is not intended to take account of individual differences but to be a system which, in sum, provides a realistic picture of the economic burden on enterprises of the diagnosis. I'm not going to go into all the shades that have been in the debate on this system, it's not time. However, it is important to emphasise that the Government proposes that this form of funding be extended to include, inter alia, the following: psychiatry. This is in accordance with the Sem declaration. A coherent funding system is essential for the private specialists, hospitals, laboratories, X-ray institutes and training institutions to become part of the publicly funded offer to all. This gives us two main challenges: 1st@item: inlistbox Regional health establishments must be aware of their role as order providers. In a situation where they are also the owners of the vast majority of execution institutions, this is a demanding task. We will follow closely that they give the private partners reasonable and viable conditions. The private part of our health care system is still small and quite marginal. It is, however, a completely necessary corrective and complementary to the public. Regional health establishments must recognise the importance of the competition provided by private institutions to their own departments and institutions in order to meet the objectives of the reform. If we lose this corrective, I'm afraid we also lose an important tool to achieve improved service and cost-effectiveness.2. It would be difficult for private individuals to deal with regional health businesses. This will involve other and stronger professional and economic requirements. But there is no way out. Special arrangements for private individuals, e.g. funded by popular interest, will not be sustainable over time. I am pleased that the message states that work is now under way on reallocation of resources between enterprises based on more objective criteria. An important objective of the reform was equivalent treatment provision for all, irrespective of their place of residence, social status and ability to pay. It is a prudent redistribution proposed, both in terms of time and share. This is necessary to ensure that the redistribution is carried out properly for all parties. It would also be a mistake if the redistribution had been so radical that it had led to less efficient services in some parts of the country and to the disruption of supply in other parts. A reallocation based on a new basic allocation will come back in 2005 under the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e355	St.meld. No 5 deals with several proposals for changes, in particular in the financing of the specialist healthcare service. What is a fact, however, is that the majority of the debate that is taking place has been linked to the Government changing the intervention-driven part of the financing of the specialist health service from 60 pst. today to make up 40 pst. in the future. Health reforms introduced in recent years have worked. This applies not only to the state acquisition of the specialist healthcare service, which we have dealt with earlier, but also to the introduction of an input-driven health care funding system. This has resulted in an increasing number of patients actually receiving the treatment they both need and require. It is disappointing that the majority have now decided to change the input-driven financing component, while ensuring that today’s model has resulted in some distortive effects. In the media, it has, among other things, the awarding of e.g.: snorkeling has been too high. As long as this is the case, it is right to change the pricing of this service instead of changing the whole system, which has actually led to a significant increase in patient treatment. It is natural for a person to undergo at regular intervals the DRG weightings used for the individual forms of treatment, including: due to new treatment methods, new medications, etc. The Progress Party is the only party that opposes reducing the input-based part of the financing of the specialist health service. There is reason to fear that, as a result of the Government’s proposed changes that are now being adopted or that have already been adopted, one might feel that the health sector’s queues will once again increase or that one is unable to sufficiently reduce the existing queues. It is proposed that, in the case of social security redeployment, this should continue to be paid directly to the private contract specialists and psychologists. This is supported by the Progress Party. It is also important to pay direct social security contributions to the private laboratory and x-ray establishments. The majority today, however, is that this applies only to those who have agreements with the regional health establishments, and not all. The main objective of the Progress Party is that the money should follow the individual patient, so that it is the patient’s choice to trigger the reimbursement, and not whether or not one has an agreement with a regional healthcare company. It must be sufficient, in the opinion of the Progress Party, for these institutions and health providers to be approved by the authorities. Recently, we have seen several cases that the signed party and the Progress Party fear will go beyond patient treatment – at least lead to a worse offer. We believe that by reducing the input-driven part of funding, as mentioned earlier, the queues could increase or the patient treatment could at least be flattened out or reduced. In addition, I fear that what the Storting has done in the past, by transferring the sick transport and that part of it to health businesses, will be involved in and destroy a part of what has been built up recently. Finally, I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party, which has been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e376	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e379	The total cost of specialist health care in 2003 was NOK 56.8 billion. In addition, health transport in the same services amounts to NOK 1.7 billion. It's an incredibly high number. In comparison, the entire cultural budget for 2004 amounts to DKK 4.5 billion — or one twelfth of what Norway has in spending on its specialist health service. It has not been said that these costs are not reasonable or that they should not be borne, but it underlines the importance of the proper use of resources for the benefit of the entire population. SV believes it is right to reduce the input-based share of the funding of the specialist healthcare service from 60 pst. to 40 pst. For many years, we have called for the input part to be a lower proportion, because we believe it has led to a bad use of resources. It has also been shown that a number of private enterprises have been able to provide services only for the 60 pst share, making it apparent that some of the compensations paid are likely to be too high. We are sceptical about implementing the input-based model even within the psychiatry, without having identified different models. One important reason why SV today opposes the implementation of this is that we see that the ISF system has distortive effects on the fact that the heaviest conditions, those requiring the longest treatment and which are most difficult to diagnose and treat, are those underprioritised in such a system. The element of the kind of harassment that is complicated, long-term and difficult to deal with is, of course, larger in psychiatry than in many other disciplines. We are therefore afraid that precisely those who have the greatest need can suffer with such a model if you don't study alternatives more thoroughly, and then with special emphasis on taking care of those users, those patients, who have the most needs. For several years SV has called for travel costs to be incorporated into health businesses and was implemented last year by a majority of government parties. This will be introduced from 1 January 2004, and we are pleased to see that. We believe that one consequence of this will be to turn the thinking from focusing on the fact that more patients have to travel far to get treatment, to make the specialist healthcare available to the population more places locally. In our view, this is an entirely correct development. At the same time, we see that expenditure in some areas has increased considerably in recent years, more than may seem reasonable. For example, there have been significant increases both in laboratory services and in x-ray services, without there being any reasonable reason for such increases in costs. SV is in favour of reimbursement both in the case of private laboratories and X-ray institutes, and also contract specialists and psychologists, to health businesses, which are then subject to contracts for payment to private enterprises. SV does not want the equalisation of public and private hospitals and hospital departments. We want all reimbursements to be made for private activities to be made through agreements with the individual health business and that the approval of hospitals and hospital departments itself is to be carried out in Stortinget by decision of national health plans. We are pleased that the Government has focused on funding models for the birthplace and for hospital establishments or in other ways where decentralised activities are involved, and that health care establishments are now to agree with the maternity centre for funding. We see that a funding model for both dialysis and cell toxicity treatment will now be put in place, but SV believes that the model needs to be further developed to apply to other establishments related to the hospital model, so that more of the business can take place outside the hospital. SV is concerned that preventive health work must also be carried out under the auspices of specialist health services, and be environmentally-oriented and not necessarily individual-based, and here we want to further develop funding models that make it easier for hospitals to take care of and further develop preventive health work under the auspices of specialist health services. Finally, I address the suggestions we have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e402	The representative Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e405	The rapporteur had a proper review, which I largely support. This is a follow-up to the responsibilities reform and is based on a public investigation conducted by Professor Terje P. Hagen. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to underline the central role of regional health businesses. They shall provide specialist health services to the population of their region. We support the proposal that regional health companies have a greater financial responsibility than they currently have. That's why we think it's right to change the basic allocation, with an increase from 40 pst. to 60 pst., against a corresponding reduction in the ISF rates from 60 pst. to 40 pst. This gives regional health businesses greater freedom. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that this gives the opportunity to give priority, for example: psychiatry, which is currently not covered by the ISF scheme. Regional health establishments will also be freer to determine the arrangements for settlement and the contracts they wish with their own undertakings or private institutions with which they have contracts. So this could be 100 pst. ISF rate to reduce the waiting time for one particular condition. A patient may screen or strengthen groups of patients that are currently outside the response-based schemes. The Christian People's Party supports that the outpatient allowance paid to each hospital up to now be paid from 2004 to regional health establishments. A continuation of today's blending model will, in the view of the Christian People's Party, best achieve the overall objectives of Norwegian health policy. This income system will balance considerations such as proximity, equality, quality and equivalent treatment provision for all, irrespective of residence and economy. Patients have been given the legal right to free hospital choice in the autumn. They have also been granted a legal right to treatment within individual time limits laid down on a medical basis. Today's funding model supports these rights. For patients, a complete treatment chain is important. The Christian People's Party considers it positive that a sample should assess and improve the interaction between the first and second line services. Private hospitals, institutions, laboratories and x-ray departments are important supplements and corrective to public health. The Christian People's Party will stress that public and private specialist health services must be given a level playing field. The prescriber must be able to refer both to public and private hospitals that have contracts with regional health establishments. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to the development of classification systems in several new areas of specialist healthcare. For us, it is important to prioritise psychiatry in particular — in addition to drug treatment, rehabilitation and habilitation. These are tasks that have been neglected for a long time. The majority indicate that the analysis centre of Lovisenberg AS has shown that short hospital stays appear to be overfunded. The Christian People's Party is concerned that this is matched by the underfinancing of long-term stays. It will go beyond chroniclers and patients with complex disorders. We also support the proposal that the social security contributions continue to be paid directly to private specialists, doctors and psychologists. At the same time, we see the need for private specialists to deal more closely with patients from public waiting lists and to participate more in education and research. During the consultations, there was broad agreement that research funds should be distributed by a cooperation body to be set up between regional health establishments and universities and colleges. It is distributed by 40 pst. weight of equal amount per. region and 60 pst. emphasis on research results, such as: published articles and doctoral degrees. If we are to be a leading country in the field of health, it is important that we stimulate research. It'll benefit the patients. Finally, I just want to say that it's important that you follow the way a new fare system works, so that you can always have patients in the center.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e438	This is a major and comprehensive case, with major implications for health treatment in Norway. In this way, you might have wanted a little more time on the treatment. It has been a hectic time now before Christmas, and it would have been desirable perhaps that we could have spent a little more time on it in the committee. In total, health enterprises dispose of about 1 % of the total. $60 billion today for health care. That's a lot of money. We believe that the Storting should adopt the overall structure of the specialist health service and therefore also the operating framework for health businesses. Then health-care providers shall make available these financial resources by putting the policy decisions into practice and having a full responsibility in the specialist health service. The centre party was together with the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party against the law of health enterprises as it was designed. We have thought that the overall health policy must be determined in this house. That is why we have also made proposals so late in the budgetary procedure a few days ago that we should have a national health plan that is regularly rolling and that outlines the large and coordinated structure. Unfortunately, we don't get a majority for this in Stortinget. It is therefore important to use economic policy properly. We believe that healthcare companies should also be given the funds that are currently going to contract specialists and psychologists and to private laboratories and the X-ray institute. In this way, there will be a good synergy between the responsibility of health businesses. They may then relate obligations to the reimbursements, including: in the case of training and interaction in areas other than pure patient treatment. A coordinated use of health resources in this way may, in our view, also lead to the fastest closure of waiting lists and the most rational use of resources. In this context, I would like to link some comments to rehabilitation and training, which remain at a level between the specialist health service and the community health service. We are concerned that the funding for rehabilitation will continue to go directly from the National Agency for Social Security, not least in view of patients who are chronically in need of regular rehabilitation and who can then get it directly from the primary health service by reference there, without the health businesses as a cost-effective and delaying intermediary. We would also like to point out that it is important that healthcare companies make clear and predictable agreements with rehabilitation and benefit institutions for their patients, so that this is a system that can function in an interaction between public and private actors. With regard to the different funding models here, we support the Government that there must be a blending model with both framework funding and activity-based funding. We are afraid that too much emphasis on price financing will result in a bias in the treatment offer that we have never been a follower of. We believe that a blending model best respects the broad and general social responsibility of the specialist healthcare service, while being able to take better account of, among other things. psychiatry, drug treatment and the treatment of chroniclers, and not least the many with complex disorders. This applies, inter alia, to: the elderly. So it is important to go into some of the more specific areas dealt with by this message, including: research. The Central Party agrees with the Socialist Left Party that in the allocation to research, 60 pst should be. be the basic allocation and 40 pst. research-related appropriations, which are then based on research results and what has been produced. We believe that this is the best funding model, which is also used in other research contexts, and believe that a basic allocation could better discharge the general research responsibility of the specialist health service. There is also reason to point out the need for research and education that creates better cooperation with and higher quality in primary health services. In this context, I would like to stress that the educational health homes that we have should be maintained, rather than that someone is now in danger of being wound up, and that we are developing in that area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e458	When the hospital reform was adopted, it was assumed that it would be followed up by a review of the financial instruments. The government has therefore promoted St.meld. No 5, on the income system for specialist health services. Funding, like organisation, is a central instrument for achieving the objectives we have set ourselves for health care. The hospital reform has given regional health companies responsibility for providing specialist health services to the population. Complete management and clarification of responsibilities shall ensure more health for each crown. It is therefore important that the income system now to be adopted builds up under this overall responsibility for regional health enterprises. The measures proposed by the Government contribute to this. Therefore, when the Storting today adopts the income system for specialist health services, an important building block of the hospital reform is put in place. I am therefore very pleased with the broad opening up of the proposals in the position of the Social Committee. It is a strength for further efforts to develop services for the benefit of patients. An income system must take a lot of account. Accessibility, equivalency, priority, cost-effectiveness and cost-control are the most important. There is not one model that meets these considerations 100 pst. Different models score differently. In the view of the Government, a mix of framework funding and activity-based grants would be best suited to address these concerns. ISF has helped to increase the number of patients treated and to reduce the waiting time for treatment. The free choice of hospitals, supported by the principle that money follows the patient, should continue to stimulate hospitals for good, rapid and effective treatment. At the same time, it is necessary to focus more on the use of resources in priority areas and patients with the highest needs. The government will strengthen treatment provision for patients with mental health problems and for drug users and will place increased emphasis on prevention in specialist health services. These are health services which are essentially financed by the basic allocation of regional health enterprises. A better balance between activity funding and basic funding will better cater for these patient groups. The level of activity in hospitals is historically high. As a result, the need for continued strong incentives for further growth in patient provision is not as strong. In some areas, too, a certain amount of overcapacity cannot be excluded. This may lead to a desire to trigger ISF reimbursement by treating patients with less severe suffering and with little medical benefit. These are resources that could make more use of if they had benefited other patients. Economical priority, as has unfortunately been seen in examples, is unacceptable. In order to achieve a balanced and guided development of treatment provision in line with overall priorities, we need to find the right balance between activity financing and basic funding. The Government considers that a strengthening of the basic allocation and a corresponding reduction of the ISF rate to 40 pst. will make the ISF a better tool for achieving the health policy objectives. It will be more robust. Similar conversions are also proposed for outpatient clinics, private contract specialists and private laboratory and X-ray institutes. I am very pleased with the broad support given to these proposals in the Committee's position. The aim is to further develop the ISF system in such a way that patients are not currently treated, for example: Psychiatric treatment, in the long term, can be included in the scheme. It is also necessary to strengthen efforts to update the DRG system and to ensure a level playing field in code practices. Next year, there's $5 million set aside. NOK to this. I have noticed that the members of the Committee from the Progress Party are in favour of an independent body that develops and takes more responsibility for the financing of the specialist health service. I would like to remind you that today, it is Sintef Unimed who, on behalf of the Ministry of Health, performs most of the maintenance and development tasks related to the DRG system. So it's not the Ministry of Health that does it. However, the Ministry is now working on a future model for organising this work. I take these points of view with me in this work. The government wants to strengthen prevention efforts and suggests that outpatient patient training rates be extended to all patient groups. We also want to improve the possibilities of providing specialist health services closer to the patient's place of residence. The fact that enterprises are now taking responsibility for sick transport and that the ISF scheme is extended to include dialysis and cell toxicity treatment provided outside hospitals provides new opportunities for decentralised solutions. Private service providers shall continue to be an important complement and corrigendum to public hospitals. In order to further facilitate this, it is proposed that outpatient treatment in private hospitals should be able to trigger reimbursement from 2005, once agreement has been reached with regional enterprises. An objective of the hospital reform has been a more equivalent health service throughout the country. A new distribution of income between regional health establishments is proposed, based on the Hagen Committee's key allocation proposal. At the same time, the government has seen the need to mitigate the redistribution effects in relation to what would follow from the selection proposal. Finally, I would like to return to the interaction between the primary health service and the specialist health service. I believe that the proposals in the Communication better facilitate such cooperation in the future, but I have put down a sample to investigate how we can further strengthen this interaction.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e490	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e493	St.meld. No 5 deals with a lot of good things, but we're also left with a lot of questions. There is one area in particular I would like to ask the Council of State to comment on. There are now some private operators operating only on the basis of the ISF 60 pst, i.e. within that cost. According to the Communication, the possibility of the private sector will be continued, but on condition that they have an agreement with regional health establishments. Let's think about the following situation: you can't agree on a different price because, among other things, it's not possible to agree on a different price. to a greater extent than at present goes beyond the basic appropriations allocated to hospitals. No RHF will enter into an agreement in such a situation. Can the Council of State find an alternative solution so that the private provider can continue to operate within the current framework, with a greater share of the input-driven funding?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e502	The hospital reform is a responsibility reform. Ensure responsibility is at the level of the regional health undertaking. It is essential that the implementation of care-care responsibilities is managed by the regional health undertaking. I wish private welcome in the execution of this responsibility. But I think it's absolutely vital that we make good use of the total resources, that this is done on the basis of agreements with regional health businesses. It must also be the basis for the facility of the financing system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e509	In SV we have noticed that the government has set up a selection to look at cooperation between the specialist health service and the municipal health service. So we haven't gone into any of the relationships, for example. related to the funding of hospitals, because we would think it would come back to that. But there is another aspect that we have touched on in a comment in the committee setting. It concerns occupational health services in hospitals, which are not primarily engaged in individual treatment but are engaged in outreach and environmental activities, often in municipalities and in cooperation with different businesses. Today’s financing model endangers such businesses because they do not receive revenues that are not triggered by patient-oriented activities. Does the Council of State consider that there is a danger that it has not been organised – here is also referred to his own document, the Recipe for a Healthier Norway – and needs to protect that type of business and further develop funding models for that type of business?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e518	Those parts of the activities of the specialist health service which are not directly patient-oriented are mainly financed either through direct grants or through the basic appropriations. Changing the composition of the total funding and placing greater emphasis on the basis will strengthen the ability of hospitals to carry out these types of tasks, for example: the type of tasks referred to by the representative Ballo. It is at the head of the Storting, both in the budgetary procedure and in the reporting process. But I want to take along the question asked by the representative of Ballo, and look at it more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e525	As the previous replicator pointed out, there are some unexplained areas in this financing arrangement. One has noticed that the Government has set up a selection to look at the cooperation between levels. It's important and correct. Furthermore, in the final allocation case, no final position has been taken. It's said that you need some more basic material. It can be done, among other things: the distribution between health regions. There has been a long debate on whether Health West has received the right level of allocation compared to the other enterprises. Both in the 2004 State budget and now in a minority comment, we have asked for clarification as soon as possible. Will the Minister of Health contribute to this, so that a person gets a final decision on this and does not have these unexplained circumstances?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e532	The Hagen Committee examined the distribution issue between health regions and presented a proposal for a new distribution model such as: captures the facts pointed to by the representative. We have in St.meld. No 5 submitted to Stortinget an adjusted version of this distribution model and invited Stortinget to join it. And when the Storting is probably doing that today, the distribution system and the transitional arrangements are compared to the distribution between regional enterprises, so uncertainties beyond this, I don't see that this treatment is going to leave today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e539	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e544	I want to get back to the distribution in terms of research and development. The Communication underlines that the funding model proposed would not result in increased payments from the country as a whole if research results increased and that there would be no distortion in the distribution of regional health enterprises. Is it in this that the Government believes that the sum to go to research is static? There is also a reference to the question I asked earlier: a clarification that leads one to see the need for more resources, must make it possible to increase this framework altogether. In any case, the Central Party will follow closely with regard to the future state budget. Then I would like to take care of it with feeding rooms. We think it is positive to cooperate on the supply of food at that level, but we will make it clear that both professional and financial responsibility for the food establishments must lie with the state and health businesses. It is clear that one can cooperate on the staff of the specialist health service and the community health service between them. It is positive, including: in relation to ensuring soil-killing both for the maternity wards and for the municipalities. But it must be quite clear that the specialist health service has both the professional and the financial responsibility for all the activities that take place in the feeding rooms, in our opinion. Finally, I want to say a little about the highly specialized treatment. This may indicate that this is underfunded, and we ask the Ministry to follow closely when looking at the model to be chosen. It is very important that we do not lose these highly specialised offers, because the payment is too poor from health businesses to the institutions that carry out this treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e555	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1395]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e571	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes to the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e580	St. pp. No 21 for 2003–04 mainly includes an additional allocation of more than DKK 1 billion to finance the growth that has been in the hospital activity in 2003. The growth was included in the estimates for input-driven funding, and the real growth for 2003 is estimated at 5 pst. It is positive that one through this proposition will finance this additional growth compared to what was entered in the State budget for the same year. With regard to the setting, there are two aspects I want to comment on. One is the proposal of the Progress Party and the Central Party to grant SEK 1.5 billion to cover the deficit of businesses. This is a form of management from Stortinget's side that I will strongly warn against. The company model we now have is based on a clear division of responsibilities, where one has responsible directors in the regional enterprises that have been given significant powers, but also a significant responsibility. A model whereby the Storting proposes to cover losses in retrospect annually – it has begun to become an annual tradition of these batches – will mean that one rewards the companies with the greatest deficits, and one will not in any way encourage financial accountability. I think it will undermine the authority of these boards and their ability to deal with the challenging situation that will then be in the companies in the foreseeable future. The other relationship that I want to comment on is that a unanimous committee goes in to grant 350 million. kr to maintain the unit price for 2003. For the Government Parties, it has been important that this allocation be made in such a way that it does not have a financial impact on the 2004 budget. I would also like to refer to the budgetary position and the 2004 draft budget on this issue, which mentions, among other things, the handling of improved registration practices in relation to real activity growth. points to alternative models to deal with this, including: through the DRG index.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e591	There is no doubt that health-care establishments are struggling to adapt their level of operation to the level of income and transfer. Information received by the Committee during the consultations with the regional health establishments during the 2004 budgetary procedure actually provided a rather unmanageable picture of the situation if they were not to change and close offers that were purely economically justified. This is not a good situation when an attempt is made to improve specialist health services in both somatics, psychiatry and treatment for drug users. Through the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties, the economic situation was significantly improved by the decision of 500 million. kr more and deferred time to require a balance in the operation of health establishments. In this demanding economic situation for health enterprises, it is important not to go into anything that could exacerbate their operating environment. In the Workers' Party we are therefore very happy that we have got an overall committee to go against that unit price per. DRG credits were to be reduced from NOK 29 931 to NOK 29 308, corresponding to a payment of approximately SEK 350 million. kr. This helps to facilitate the operation of enterprises and improve their ability to carry out their tasks. I want to give tribute to the government parties, which in a pragmatic way were involved in this good solution. This is a result of the negotiations that we respect. This proposal is based on comments and views that we should not reduce the unit price in December, with retroactive effect for the whole of 2003. This fundamental point of view was also measurable by the Workers' Party during the examination of the revised national budget. On a later occasion, we need to look at how the ISF scheme is to be practised in relation to the shortening of the unit price. It is clear that health businesses need to operate effectively, so that our appropriations provide increased patient care. Such requirements must be designed to be met by health enterprises through their budgets and their business planning. It's the Workers' Party for. However, we believe that it is in principle wrong to require a shortening of the unit price for actually performed patient treatment, as long as it has been properly registered and performed patient treatment in strict compliance with this. Incorrect coding and registration giving rise to unjustified revenue must be cleaned up in cases where this applies. I expect the control systems to intercept this now. These are obvious reasons why we do not adopt new unit prices retrospectively at the end of the year, which, after the enterprises have accounted for revenue and expenditure continuously throughout the year, will become quite unmanageable both in the accounting and operational context. Health undertakings must have predictable operating frameworks. Neither the system nor its management must be demoralising on good planning and good work. Establishing effective and implemented patient treatment must be the absolute principle. It must be safe for health businesses to do so. Then I expect the DRG weights to be constantly adjusted and maintained so that they are in line with agreed treatment guidelines for best practice. I record that this must lead to some weights being adjusted up, and others down.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e617	Let me start with the positive in the adjustment for unit prices in the ISF system. The government changed the unit price in the mid-term of 2003 by reducing it from NOK 30000 to approx. NOK 29 000 with retroactive effect for the whole of 2003, which would have given enterprises a smaller income of 350 million. kr. The opposition parties – the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left – the power in the suspension to push the government parties to accept that the unit price should not be reduced in 2003, as proposed by the Government, which would give the companies an additional income through the ISF of 350 million. kr. I am pleased that the Workers' Party did not allow itself to press for justice in this matter, despite the considerable resistance of the government parties. Enterprises will receive an additional 350 million in 2004. NOK at the disposal, which will help in the operational situation of enterprises in 2004. An important aspect of this proposal, which is now the subject of an overall committee, will also be that in the future the Ministry will not be able to make reductions in the income of enterprises in the year of operation, and therefore, throughout the period of operation, undertakings will be able to operate with a predictable economy. I am not worried that the government parties in this matter suffered significant political defeat. The majority of the population adopted on Wednesday last week an operational budget for enterprises for 2004 which would obviously lead to significant cuts in treatment provision. By the end of 2003, enterprises will have an accumulated deficit of approximately DKK 2.2 billion. This amount corresponds to an efficiency need of a total of 5 pst., which enterprises cannot do in 2004 without cut in the supply and reduction of quality. Approximately 5000 jobs are at risk of disappearing during 2004. This situation, which will affect many sick people in 2004 and also lead to the dismissal of health professionals, cannot be accepted by the Progress Party and therefore proposes to cover DKK 1.5 billion of the accumulated deficit in 2003. In the spring of 2002, businesses were charged with a demand for efficiency of DKK 1.3 billion, and the 2004 budget added another SEK 400 million. to improve efficiency. On top of that, enterprises now have a deficit of NOK 2.2 billion. The ISF percentage has been reduced from 60 to 40 pst. A message I received last night was that the Radium Hospital, for example, has been instructed by its company to save 100 million. DKK in 2004. I'll come back to that a little bit. Based on the situation I have described, it should not be surprising for anyone that in 2004 more local hospitals will lose their emergency functions and their food supply, and that waiting times and waiting lists for priority treatment will increase. The fact that the repugnance of the hospital reform with state ownership and driving responsibilities tends to see the reform fail is understandable, but that the government does not see the seriousness of the situation in the future of the reform, by not providing sufficient resources to businesses, is both surprising and extremely disappointing. The same can be said of the Labour Party in this situation. I'm dealing with the proposal we have with the Central Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e632	The representative John I. Alvheim has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e635	First of all, I would like to say in relation to the representative Alvheim's visit to the opponents of the health reform that the SV's position on this is not at all that we want the health reform to fail. We want it to be good for the patient. Then it may be that adjustments have to be made along the way to get it done. So I would like to make some comments about the general economic situation of specialist health care and health care companies. This has been a central theme both in the state budget debate and in the general political debate in summer and autumn, both here in the house and outside the Stortinget. There is no doubt that the large deficits accumulated in the various health businesses over the last two to three years are causing major financial challenges for hospitals, both next year and perhaps several years after. Then there are many who claim that the cause of these economic problems and deficits is that health reform has been underfunded from the first day, and that if only health businesses had had enough money, yes, health reform would be a daunting success. To this I would say two things. Firstly, many more money is now spent in the specialist healthcare service after the health reform was adopted before 2002, when county municipalities were responsible for hospitals. Secondly, one could rightly claim that if only the county authorities had had enough money for hospital operations, then the county administration and ownership of the hospitals would also have been a success. I would like to remind you that one of the arguments of some of the followers of the health reform was that a state acquisition of the specialist health service would increase the control of cost growth. I am strongly in doubt whether there is such a good control we now see. Thus, the size has granted additional appropriations and granted substantial amounts both in 2002 and now in 2003. The SV acknowledges that the economic situation of health businesses is such that it is necessary to take some action to ease pressure, to put it this way, both through more resources and by postponing the balance sheet requirement one year, until the end of 2005. It is therefore also SV, as the rest of the Committee, agrees that the downward adjustment of the unit price linked to the DRG carried out in the middle of the financial year puts health businesses in a difficult position. It is important that hospitals have a predictable economy, in the sense that the financial assumptions underlying a budget do not change along the way in the middle of the financial year and give retroactive effect. This would make it impossible to rationally plan and implement treatment provision in hospitals. SV therefore supports that cap. Item 76 is increased by 350 million. kr on the current year's budget. Then it must be that the increased DRG revenues must have their background in actual increased activity – as Asmund Kristoffersen did – and that they are not primarily caused by better recording of treatment and diagnosis. The examples of deliberate miscoding based on economic motives that have been revealed are totally unacceptable, and should have far greater consequences for those responsible for the future than was the case in the example of Health South. This is so devastating to the trust in Norwegian health services that this must be based on absolute zero tolerance. On the other hand, the input-driven funding system allows the system to over-incentive patients who are economically lucrative to treatment to over-removal the treatment of medical conditions that should be higher in priority. In this context, I refer to a national audit report on hip operations, where such twisting effects are mentioned. This report is now before the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. SV is therefore pleased that the government in the budget proposed that the ISF share be reduced next year from 60 to 40 p.m., and we support the government in this. SV believes that this is the right way to go, towards an income system that more effectively ensures that there are medical conditions and the severity of the suffering that determine the priorities of the Norwegian health system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e663	St. pp. No 21 takes account of the changes made in individual chapters of the 2003 State Budget under the Ministry of Health. The case spokesperson Bent Höie has had a good review of the case, as I put myself behind it. The vast majority of the changes in this proposition are not necessary to comment on, but within the hospital economy, there may be a few points in the direction that the case-speaker has drawn up. St.meld. No 5 about the income system, which we've just discussed, puts them above the targets of the income system and the hospital economy, and it's important that we have a principle approach to this, too, in this case. The Christian People's Party wants an income system that balances the care of proximity, quality and equal treatment for all, regardless of housing and economics, and this has the support of the Committee during the treatment of St.meld. No 5th@item: For the Christian People's Party, it is important to underline the decisive role played by regional health professionals in providing specialist health services to the populations of each region. The economy of the individual enterprise will thus be decisive as to whether the individual patient will experience a good and functioning specialist healthcare service. Postponing the balance sheet requirement for 2005 shall not cover the accumulated operating deficit until after the balance sheet has been restored. We must include this in the next debate. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that the business model is an organisation with responsible governance. The postponement of the balance sheet requirement one year may therefore be related to such a structure, but if it is to be such that the operating deficit is at any time eliminated after the individual regional health care providers, this would lead to an undermining of the responsibilities of the enterprises. A system of professional and responsible governance is well-placed to control the regional leaders, because they have to take responsibility and make sure to stay within the framework of the adoption of this house. If there is tradition, as minority wishes can be perceived, that a person should appreciate the people who actually do not stick to the limits they have received, the whole enterprise model will be undermined and lose its legitimacy. There is no system at risk of breaking the frames upon which it is accepted to control. The background for a budget is that this should be a clear management tool. The 2003 State Budget Decision provides for the activity of regional health services to be at the record high level of activity we had in 2002. There was a strong increase in activity from 2001 to 2002. However, in 2003 there has been a real increase in activity in hospitals of 5 pst. in relation to 2002. More than DKK 1 billion have been allowed for this level of activity to be maintained this year so that more patients would receive treatment, and for the additional costs to be borne in connection with the increase in activity. The state budget that we adopted in this Chamber a few days ago, makes it possible for this high activity to be carried forward for the next year as well. The Ministry's proposal to reduce the unit price corresponding to a payment of approximately 350 million. kr was signalled in the revised national budget. The Christian People's Party believes that it is important that the individual health care unit has long-term and prudent frameworks to govern. The unit price adopted by the Stortinge in 2002 for the 2003 financial year is, therefore, used in all health care providers’ budgets and frameworks. The Christian People's Party has therefore fallen down to the fact that the unit price should apply throughout the year in order to ensure good governance. Changing the price of the hospital for the purpose of performing patient treatment could result in unnecessarily weak operating conditions in hospitals. In total, the economy of healthcare professionals is getting better, which patients in this country will benefit. The balance sheet requirement is deferred until 2005, at the same time as the 5 pst increase in activity. will be followed up with extra promises and the unit price will be kept stable. Also do not forget to use St.meld. No 5 and the adopted State budget within the framework areas 15 and 16 have given a positive boost to the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e689	Let me first give a visit to the representative John Alvheim, who repeatedly repeats that we, who opposed the health reform, want this to fail. It's unheard of to claim. I believe that we have at least tried to do this as well as possible for the Senter Party. We have tried to create operational frameworks for the new healthcare companies in such a way that it is possible to reconcile quality, capacity and control, and I actually thought that we and the Progress Party were reasonably in agreement on that. We want to make the specialist health service as good as possible in the current circumstances. Now when it's said from the majority that we're undermining the authority of the government, I'm also a little upset. The representative, Höie, said this in connection with the fact that we want to strengthen the economy by, among other things, to make a cancellation of liabilities. What is happening now is that those who are with and underbudgets undermine the authority of the rulers. The primary task of governance must be to ensure proper health care for people, both qualitatively and quantitatively, and then there must be a sub-budget that undermines the authority of the board rather than trying to obtain adequate funding — if these boards are not to be axe committees in order to change the structure and treatment arrangements. We think it is good that a joint committee says that changing the unit price in one operating year is unheard of, and will therefore join in the proposal to grant 350 million. extra kr, so that the unit price can be kept unchanged in 2003. I don't think the representative Alvheim brought the Central Party in that context in the political round here. The Centre Party then believes that some signals need to be given to health businesses quickly, so that it becomes as predictable as possible in 2004, the year of operation it is now going into. We have promoted a Document No. Eight proposals for debt cancellation. That proposal will not be dealt with before the end of the year, so it will be quite a long time in 2004 before you get a clarification here. The proposal is based on the non-acceptance of budget excesses, and therefore we also ask in the proposal that the Ministry carry out a proper review of the situation of health businesses, so that any undue over-consumption is not covered. But we believe that there is so much lag now, accumulated deficits, in health companies that something has to be done about it. We believe that there is a hopeless argument when it is said that cleaning part of this will give less health care. It has to be to turn things around in your head. I believe that when this document No. The 8 proposal will not be considered in 2003, it is right to carry out a debt cancellation in the current treatment of the regroupingproposition. That is why we propose that NOK 1.5 billion be spent as debt cancellation now, and that we get a final settlement on this at the time of the examination of Document No. 8:10, which we advanced earlier in the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e700	The intervention funding system has stimulated more patients to receive treatment more quickly. That is why we want to continue the arrangement. Another positive effect has been that we now have significantly better knowledge of the activity in hospitals through more complete registration. However, this has also led to an increase in the number of DRG points, even if the activity, and therefore the costs, is actually unchanged. When the input-driven funding scheme was put in place, it was a pre-requisite that payments should reflect real activity. Therefore, a so-called cryptacre was introduced to prevent hospitals from getting increased revenues by changing the registration of really the same activity. However, the cryptography system had some clear weaknesses. The government of Stoltenberg therefore proposed to replace the 2002 cryptography scheme with a practice in which changed registration practices are matched by reduced unit prices. I would also like to remind you that in the 2004 draft budget there is an alternative procedure for shortening DRG credits. Once the Government has proposed to reduce the unit price for 2003 due to changes in registration practices, this is in line with the policy also proposed by the Labour Party Government. The Committee has examined St.prp. No 21 for 2003-2004 to pay up to 350 million. kr related to the increased DRG index in 2003. I agree with the Committee that the framework conditions should be as predictable as possible. Therefore, measures are being taken to improve governance information and reduce uncertainty. However, a one-sided focus on predictability could result in hospitals being better paid to register the same treatment more fully. This would be contrary to the intention of the ISF system, and I am therefore pleased that the Committee states that the ISF scheme only provides for the settlement of real activity. Let me state that the payments under the ISF scheme should reflect real activity, multiple patients and more resource-intensive patients, not altered coding. It is difficult to precisely distinguish between actually more resource-intensive patients and changed code practices as a cause for an increase in DRG scores. The number of DRG points will increase due to the fact that several patients are receiving treatment and that patients have actually become more resource-intensive to treat and because of a change in code practice. The Committee will present its opinion at Innst. S. No 88, to St. Prp. No 21, in order to analyse thoroughly the cause of the increase in the DRG index and require the involvement of regional health businesses in the work. It will be followed up, and the initiative to do so has already been taken. The Ministry, together with regional health enterprises, will also consider how to correct the bill for each year for changed code practices. The work on ensuring more uniform and correct registration is intensified and it is important for the legitimacy of the system to do so. And as I said, we want to improve governance information to reduce uncertainty. I can also assure the representative, Mr Molvik, that to the extent that it appears to be a fraud with coding, it will be very hard to put it down. It's not acceptable at all. Let me conclude by saying that because if you have a different view of the level of resource use in hospitals, I don't think there's any reason to doubt the government's and government's willingness to invest in hospitals. There has never been more investment in hospitals than under this government, and we are granting through this case here today up to a further 1.8 billion kroner to the hospitals this year. Hospital appropriations are also being increased in the 2004 budget, according to Stortingen’s treatment. That means that there is a broad political consensus about investing in hospitals. So doubting whether this serves no good purpose in my view. Then we'll have to disagree about what we disagree about. But at least there is no doubt that this government has one purpose, and that is that we will succeed in providing more people with treatment more quickly, and that we will succeed in improving the effectiveness of healthcare provided by the hospital reform. I think we're on a good path to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e722	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e725	As I underlined in my main post, I am pleased with the result of the negotiations between the Workers' Party and the government parties, which added about 350 million to health companies. kr. A succession of lines does not allow the questioner or the Council of State time to go into the practice of the ISF, but let me nevertheless ask the Council of State: will the Council of State assess the practice we have seen in the general shortening of the unit price, based on improved registration practices? I am concerned about the introduction of another kind of old encryption system, so I ask.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e732	In line with the agreement that settlement is to be given for real activity growth, rather than for purely improvement in registration practices, we will follow up what the Storting has said both in this setting and the previous setting that was treated here today. I can assure the representative Asmund Kristoffersen that I do not intend or think it is appropriate to go back to some kind of old cryptography system. That arrangement has been abolished too well, as I see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e739	The representative, Bent Höie, was very concerned with the accountability and soundness of the business, and felt that relinquishing debts would be a favor to those who run poorly and irresponsiblely. A message from the Radium Hospital that I received yesterday said they have been required to save 100 million. kr. It is not possible to do this without having to compromise patient treatment, i.e. a treatment that is a priority treatment, according to this decision of the wholesaler. And then I ask the Health Minister, who will the Radium Hospital show accountability to? Is it in relation to patients, or is it in relation to the budget balance?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e746	The representative Alvheim has been among the representatives in this room who have most often referred to the hospital reform as a responsibility reform. And I agree with the heart with the representative Alvheim in that. This means that those responsible at all stages, from the Minister of Health down to the individual health professionals, have clear lines to deal with. At the bottom of these lines, however, there is a responsibility for providing the public with the health services it needs, and there is a medical care requirement in the legislation on the performance of these services themselves. It is clear that that legislation must be complied with even when drawing up budgetary decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e753	I want to quote from a letter dated December 15th, from the Trade Union to the Ministry of Health, which concerns child and youth psychiatry. It says: ‘Prevention measures in hospitals are strongly affecting psychiatry, and children’s and young people’s psychiatry are particularly vulnerable. We are very concerned about the trend where cost-effectiveness and savings are put first and professional assessments come last. The offer of psychotic children and young people is actually proposed when, on Tuesday 16.12.03, Ullevål University Hospital examines its budget with a proposal to merge the two departments of the SSBU; [[Psychiatric and Psychiatric Department]] The reason why I choose to draw up this quote is that we've seen how we've covered the deficit annually by health companies related to somatic health care, while the escalation plan for mental health protection has not followed original intentions. Does the Council see that the funding system can help to give priority to areas that were not actually to be prioritised, at the very expense of the areas that would have been given the highest priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e765	With regard to the follow-up of health businesses to psychiatry in general and to child and youth psychiatry in particular, I refer to what I said in the 2004 budget debate about how I have followed and will follow up on it in the management of businesses. Regarding the Ballo question, I would say that we have an ISF system that does not include the psychiatry, imposing specific requirements on the management of health businesses to ensure the priority of this area. That's why we have escalators, which is why we have steering signals in relation to it. But I'm a little surprised that SV is so skeptical about developing equally powerful funding instruments in relation to the psychiatry that we have in relation to the somatic. That is the Government's proposal, and fortunately we have received the agreement of a majority in favour of it. But SV is skeptical about expanding ISF to psychiatry. I don't get to vote on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e774	There have been differences in the figures for accumulated deficits and liabilities of health enterprises. In the hearing we had in the committee, we got one figure, it's in the media over NOK 2.5 to $3 billion – it was all over 3.5 billion – and now the department says it's NOK 2.2 billion. Can the Minister of Health say something more, as it approaches the turn of the year 2003/2004, about what the final situation will be? Can he also say something about how many employees health care companies have to resign, based on the signals we get through the media, which we partly also got through the consultation that the committee had?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e779	With regard to the information received by the Social Committee at the open hearing on this matter, I do not have, for my part, per. current information beyond that, on what is expected as a result for 2003. But what I can say is that, through the 2004 budgetary procedure, we have arranged for the migration challenge to be seen by the deficit for 2003 to be different, partly because the majority is adding 500 million to hospitals. This is partly due to the fact that the size of the capital has opened up for one more year to be used to balance. This means that a more favourable adjustment is made to the migration challenge represented by the 2003 deficit.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e786	Both this case and the previous case have as an incentive that it concerns the economy of hospitals and the possibility for them to plan their activities in the years to come. Now we see that hospitals are most likely to be underfunded, at least according to the financial statements, the budget balances, to which hospitals add up. If we also look at this in the context of changing the input-driven funding to 40 pst. And the basic budget for 60 p.m., I have some questions for the Minister of Health in this regard. For the number of patients who will be treated next year, the Minister of Health has previously used the term ‘overall’ in line with what is being treated this year. My question to the Minister of Health is, does he feel that he can still stand for that statement? And, where appropriate, what does the Minister of Health put in his previous opinion that there should be an equal number of patients? I'm asking for an explanation. Or does the Minister of Health think that the most likely treatment will be given to fewer patients next year, as some people think, than has been done this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e793	If you look at this historically, I think both the representative Nesvik and others in this room will understand that it is not possible to predict exactly the evolution of the activity of the hospitals. Nor should it be, because there is a development in this that is governed by conditions that cannot be controlled, namely patients' needs, morbidity, etc. However, what is contained in the Government’s proposal for a State budget is also at the root of the majority position adopted for 2004, namely that one should continue the record high level of activity we have in the current year, in 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e799	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e804	Just a brief comment to the representative Alvheim's main post, where he provided a description of the negotiations between the Workers' Party and the government parties in which I did not recognise myself. For the record, it may be good to have in the Minutes that those who took part in the negotiations have a different view of them than the one that Mr Alvheim has who did not take part in those negotiations. The second relationship is the claim that the government parties were put under pressure by an overall opposition in this case. That's not correct either. The government parties entered into a dialogue with the Workers' Party immediately after the Workers' Party signalled its position – with two main objectives: one was to obtain a solution that did not have budgetary implications for 2004. The other was to have a neat relationship with the budget partner of the year. This occurred before the other batches signaled their position, and therefore the government parties did not allow themselves to be pressurised by an overall opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e811	I asked for the word to answer the challenge that the Council of State gave in its response to my reply. What is the reason why SV already opposes the introduction of an input-based funding model for psychiatry? I believe that much of the reason can be given from the comments of the majority in the vote of St.meld. No 5, and there are notes that also the government parties are in for. The suspension refers to a note prepared by the analysis centre Lovisenberg AS on the weaknesses of today’s DRG system, which was forwarded to the Committee of the Main Trade and Service Industries Organisation on 4 November 2003. There are a number of examples of adverse and unintended outcomes of the system that form the basis for input-driven funding. The majority have pointed out that the analysis centre of Lovisenberg states that short hospital stays appear to be systematically over-funded and that they are matched by under-financing of long-term stays for patients with heavy main diagnosis. The majority also pointed out that there was concern that such unintended effects of the funding system could complicate the efforts of hospitals to prioritise on the basis of purely medical and professional criteria. We have also seen a report from the National Audit Office where we see results related to orthopaedics with priority in the first time hip replacement surgery, and underprioritising them, for example. receive a prosthetic solution. If you think of that kind of objection when you're going to have a similar system for psychiatry, we're afraid that exactly that group, the patients, who have the greatest needs, the ones who could have needed a long stay in a psychiatric ward, or close follow-up over time, will be the group that's affected. The reason why we're not going into such a funding system now is that we want to clarify that kind of effect. And we've asked for that. Unfortunately, we have not received a majority with us. But that doesn't mean SV is opposed to a system that stimulates higher activity within the psychiatry. We believe that both in outpatient treatment and in relation to the patients involved, more of the resources used in psychiatry can be used specifically for patient treatment, perhaps at the expense of some administrative work and some meeting activities. But we want to ensure a funding system that does not have effects that reinforce the problems of resource shortages for those who are the weakest, as we have seen many examples in psychiatry up to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e826	I find that SV is critical and concerned, but that they have no answers. SV is critical to ISF, but does not oppose having ISF in terms of somatics. SV is critical to introduce the ISF within the psychiatry, but has no alternative, has no alternative to the concerns they express. The government has answers. We have proposed to increase the basic funding just to prevent or counteract the kind of distortionary effects that Mr Ballo has pointed out, and we have proposed the development of an ISF system for the psychiatry. We don't give the impression that it's a simple task, but we want to grasp it, we mean it seriously and show it by also granting money to such a development process. Moreover, I have to say that the finding that the ISF system has an over-financing of short stays and an under-financing of longer stays is not a major global discovery. A system such as ISF must necessarily be based on an average. You can't have a nice, detailed system. At least there will be bureaucracy and paperwork by! An average between short and long stays will necessarily lead to a certain under-financing of the long and a certain over-financing of the short stays. What we have to make sure is that there are medical assessments that govern the priorities of hospitals, and not profitability. I have said a lot about this both in the document we are dealing with now, and in what we are dealing with in the previous case and in budgetary context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e835	I respectfully believe that the answer given by the Council of State here is quite unreasonable. SV has warned against the high proportion of input-based funding and has addressed the level of government that is now at stake. We have called for travel costs to be introduced into health establishments to provide for restructuring, in order to improve the use of resources. In many ways, including with the Government, we have wanted to reduce the cost growth of specialist health services and make better use of resources. We now have in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 5 proposed that health care businesses be given greater responsibilities in relation to the total costs, including: in the case of private laboratories, X-ray services, private specialists and psychologists. What we're saying about psychiatry is not that you shouldn't start quickly with another kind of funding, but that you should have examined several models in 2004 before you start. It could even have started at the same time as the Government, from 2005. I don't think the government council has any reason to be indignant that we point out that it can be unfortunate aspects of the government's approach if you don't weigh this in relation to the groups that are hit hardest. And what we see in relation to psychiatry today is that some groups are hit hard. Now I referred to a letter from December 15 concerning the children's and youth psychiatry in Oslo, where professionals warn against the degradation of those services. I see that we have an overall responsibility in Stortinget to ensure that this development does not continue, and that the psychiatry is well cared for. It's not because SV wants to discharge itself of some responsibility, it's because we want to have a strong contributing responsibility for the service getting better than today. I am surprised that the Council of State can interpret what I am saying and what SV has said, as a sign that we do not want to contribute in a constructive way, and that we do not have constructive input as part of getting better services.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e848	I will not help to extend the debate further – just note that the representative Ballo and I then agree that an investigation should be carried out in order to develop an input-based system for the psychiatry. That there are many cuttings in the sea in relation to such development work, we have underlined very strongly. It is not about carrying out it in the short term, but it is about initiating the necessary investigations and investigations. I also have to say that I see SV's contribution to the debate on the development of specialist health services and hospitals in general as being consistently constructive, and our little passion here today is not an indication that I have changed my mind about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e855	With the pleasant conclusion, the debate is on case no. Three over. [[Fotation, see page 1396]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e873	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1399]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e891	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1399]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e907	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1399]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e925	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1401]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e941	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e952	The proposal and setting we are about to deal with today deals with adaptations to the Defence Logistics Organisation, the FLO, is a follow-up to the Innst. S. No 25 for 2000-2001 and Innst. S. No 232 for 2002-2003 and will ensure progress in migration in relation to previous decisions in the Stortinget. The proposition must also be seen in the context of the total conversion of the defence within the long term 2002-2005, or Innst. S. No 342 for 2000-2001. The next long-term proposal, for the period 2005–08, presented to the European Parliament in spring 2004, will propose a more in-depth reform of the FLO. Before we move on, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee for its constructive work in relation to a proposition which initially seemed very incomprehensible. As the Committee stated, constructive work was undertaken and therefore agreed early on on on the main content of the suspension, although some proposals and comments would be different, pending a long-term proposal which, hopefully in relation to the FLO, will become a more accurate and transparent document than what we are about to discuss today. For this reason, the Committee has chosen this time mainly to agree on the importance of the divisional structure, with the establishment of the Chief FLO and his group losses and the establishment of the divisions. However, the establishment of the group staff caused some wonder among several members of the committee and raised a question to the ministry. This approach has worked in many ways for bureaucratic and resource-intensive, but this time the Committee has chosen to allow it to pass and to come back to the matter in the long-term proposition. The reorganisation of the FLO involves the closure and re-establishment of the current management organisation with four divisional management. The proposition indicates the closure of a number of production units. These have been proposed to continue as part of major production and result units under joint management within the divisional structure. The FLO/LAND, FLO/SJØ and FLO/LUFT administrations are thus reduced by 31 December 2003. To put it simply, the whole intention of the proposition has been to simplify and rationalize, so that the defense itself has something to do with that can make everyday life simpler and more rational. The content of the proposal was based on bureaucratic — even now it does — what the Committee has tried to do, but, as I said, it is expected to come back to the long-term proposition, since at least the Committee's intention is to go more deeply into the matter. It is also, in my opinion, a paradox that in the FLO there are currently more than 8 000 people working, or approximately. one third of the defence staff, while dramatically cutting into the top of the defense. The proposition's intention will do something about it, but it's coming late and should have resulted in a bigger and stronger grip than what this proposition adds up to. We expect the long-term proposition to be clarifying here. It has been set up for a saving target of 1 300 years. Furthermore, the intention is that 1000 of these annual works should be extracted during 2004. This seems defensive to me, from the point of view of the defence's total pointed end. But this is also a result of a swelling without good control. As I said at the outset, the Committee agrees on the objective and intention of the proposal, but not entirely on the means. I refer to the comments and suggestions in the vote. Let me mention something. Unlike the government parties and the Workers' Party, which follow the proposal in the proposal, the Progress Party, SV and the Centre consider that ICT activities should not be split, an activity that has already been extensively modernised, and has also achieved significant efficiency improvements. There can be no reason to do anything about something that's good. In addition, in the form of a note, these parties will also make proposals to that effect. Unlike the other parties, the Progress Party believes that the management apparatus of the FLO should be grouped under one roof, since, after the intensive closure of the defence, which has triggered many vacancies, there should be no reason to build new ones. Huseby, where the Defence Command has just moved out, is a place that would suit itself well for this. It promotes proposals from the Progress Party. The Committee supports the proposal of the Proposition on the location of PRE elements related to the operational divisions. However, the Progress Party, SV and the Centre believe that the location of a nationwide product unit will be the best, and we propose this added to adequate premises at the Hovemoen at Lillehammer. This is in the form of the comment in the setting. The other parties ask the Government to investigate alternative solutions. Finally, the Progress Party, SV and the Centre Party will point to the comments regarding the maintenance of technical staff at the main Örland airfield station until the phase-in of new fighter aircraft and refer to the Innst. S. No 244 for 1997-1998, which emphasises this. We see it as important that Ørland Main Aviation Station is self-sufficient in maintenance capacity that can be deployed with the operational strengths of exercises and operations. We also want to point out here the economic consequences of moving without any calculations being made. At the end of the day, I will put forward the proposal contained in the vote by the Progress Party, SV and the Centre Party, and also proposal No. 2, promoted by the Progress Party and included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e980	The representative Per Ove Wideth has promoted the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e983	With this proposition, the government presented a proposal for adaptations to the Defence Logistics Organisation, the FLO, as a follow-up to previous propositions and settings. The proposition we are considering today ensures the progress of the transition in relation to previous decisions. The proposals under consideration must also be seen in the context of the overall conversion of the defence within the current long-term. In the long-term proposal expected in February/March 2004, new proposals are expected to bring about an even more in-depth transformation of the FLO. It can be exciting to see what's coming, for the first three phases of the changes in the FLO were outlined in St.prp. No 55 for 1999-2000, but there were no more than three phases outlined, and the third phase we are dealing with today. The Workers' Party has given its support to the fact that the other part of the Defence Military Organisation will be the principal contracting entity of the FLO. The tasks of the FLO may be defined as a support function for the operational activities of the Defence. It is therefore natural that the FLO adapts to the other military activities and that the future organisation and location of the FLO depend on the tasks and location of the defence operational activities. The FLO shall be developed from being a defence-related organisation to an organisation with four divisions. The top management of the four divisions is proposed to be located in Kolsås and Kjeller, and the Workers' Party believes it is natural to use available military infrastructure for the location of FLO's new management elements. Therefore, the Workers' Party supports the proposal for localisation of the Proposition, but considers that a common management element should be considered in the FLO. The reason is that co-location can provide a better basis for any further rationalisation of top management, since it is that when the rest of the FLO experience cuts and reductions, this must also apply to top management. As I see it, it is a good principle to start from above when washing the stairs. The working party supports the establishment of five production and result units, known as PREs, during the operational division. These production and performance units take over the management of current FLO units within their areas as soon as after 1 January 2004, and no later than 1 August 2004. These PREs shall provide supply and maintenance services. The PREs are linked to the operational division, and the Workers' Party supports the proposals for the location of the PREs with one exception, and it is that the Workers' Party asks the Government to investigate an alternative location of the nationwide PREs. No decision will be taken at this stage as to where the local workshops should be located. The Chief of Defence's military professional investigation provides for a division of heavy maintenance to be converted into a limited liability company in the long term. The Ministry of Defence may agree to such a recommendation by the military. Nevertheless, I do not fully understand why the head of defence is going to decide why the heavy maintenance division is going to be converted into a limited liability company. Nor can I quite understand why the head of defence adds to a precisely specified timeframe for this development, or why the military professional investigation seems to take the success of such privatisation in advance. It may seem that all of this is settled, as it stands in the MFU: ‘The best achievement is achieved by making FLO/TV a public limited-liability company.’ I didn't think it was the kind of advice the military chief of the Norwegian Armed Forces would come with when he was going to assess Norway's future defense. So the Chief of Defense's advice is to be dealt with by the Ministry of Defence, but we do know which party is in charge of that department. It would therefore not surprise me if Stortinget had to take a decision on that particular privatisation proposal when the next long-term proposition is to be addressed by Stortinget to spring. I cannot say anything but that it would surprise me greatly if, at this point, there were to be an agreement between the Workers' Party and the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1005	First, let me say that the rapporteur has clearly explained the background of the matter and the position of the committee. The FLO, or what is actually called the Defence Logistics Organisation, is primarily responsible for supporting the production of strength and military operations in peace and international missions in crisis and war. These activities shall deal with the acquisition, supply, maintenance, professional authority, phase-out and disposal of equipment. Today, the logistics of the Defense includes approx. 60 pst. of the defence budget, and has approx. 7 000 employees. The Government has now made proposals for adaptations in the FLO to ensure progress in defence conversions, in line with previous decisions in the Stortinget. The Stortinget Government now provides the necessary powers to continue the conversion. The support structure is dependent on the other structure of the conversion. The implementation of phase 3 of the FLO from the new year is important for the defence to achieve the quantitative and also qualitative objectives the size of the defence as a whole has previously set for the long-term period we are now in. In order to ensure that the defence’s support functions are as adapted as possible to the needs of the military organisation, it is necessary to put in place mechanisms to ensure that the supply over time meets demand as closely as possible. The aim is that the FLO should be mainly customer-funded, with the other part of the Defence Military Organisation as the main customer. It will then be the customer’s business areas, location, needs and requirements that will govern the tasks to be performed by the FLO, the nature and location of the business. In recent years, the public sector has increasingly used the private sector to provide public services. This development also affects the defence to a great extent and goes under the common name Public Private Cooperation – and as so often in Defense, we also have an abbreviation in this case, namely OPS. The aim is to increase focus in strategic areas, improve the quality of core activities and reduce real costs. OPS is thus a powerful tool to enable material projects and projects related to property, construction and civil engineering to be realised, which otherwise there is an economy to secure. Furthermore, it may be beneficial for parts of any risk to be spread by transferring it to a partner. In addition, it allows closer cooperation with private actors to support the defence in armed conflict in Norway and abroad. Defence is now under a profound modernisation process, both in terms of military capabilities, research and development, acquisitions, support and operation. OPS may be a significant contribution to this modernisation process. In addition, parts of the FLO must be able to offer their services to the private market. Where the FLO is best, they will also be able to win tenders outside the Defence. Where the FLO does not have the best assumptions, or where the demand is not large enough to defend its own continuous operations, it would be natural for the Defence to buy services in the private market. To enable this, the FLO shall go from being a defence-oriented organisation with partly temporarily integrated functions to a divisionalised and process-based organisation with a holistic perspective. The new FLO will therefore consist of four divisions under the Chief FLO and the Group Staff. A nationwide production unit and four regional production units are established to provide FLO’s supply and maintenance services. In operational terms, the customer shall meet one FLO — centrally by establishing an operating centre for logistics under the Chief Operating Division and locally at established production units.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1024	The proposition we're dealing with today is part of the process of transforming the defense's logistics systems from a number of independent organisations, based on individual needs and from individual sectors of defence, into an overall organisation. This is a good idea, and the Committee is largely unanimous in its assessment of this and agrees with the proposal to set up four divisions and five production units. It will facilitate the achievement of the objective of an organisation in which the customer’s business areas, location, needs and requirements are to govern the tasks to be carried out by the FLO, the extent to which the logistical activities are to be carried out, the location of the customer and the quality at which they are to be carried out. In some areas, however, the Committee distinguishes layers in its assessments, and I will point out some of these. In particular, it concerns the fragmentation of ICT work into two divisions, the middle-level maintenance of F-16, competitive outsourcing, exclusion and Public Private Cooperation. The division of ICT work is, in the SV's opinion, a complete reversal of previous decisions in the Stortinget. The defense does not take a step forward, but instead two steps backwards towards the situation that was before the change of defence started. The majority are now in favour of a fragmentation of the ICT profession environment, the value chain and resources in two parts. The result may be ambiguity with regard to the role and sharing of responsibilities and reduced ability to deliver to customers, both the Defence Military Organisation and civil customers. In previous landfill proposals, the objectives have been to: Firstly, the collection of ICT without a competing ICT environment at the FLO and at the customer. Secondly, the placing of uniform responsibilities in an end-to-end perspective, i.e. total responsibility for ICT delivery in a life-cycle perspective. Thirdly, a comprehensive system and architecture responsibility for ICT, which implies a clearly defined responsibility for the delivery of complete ICT solutions in a life-cycle perspective. Good results have already been achieved, and the chances of achieving the goals, including the downsizing, have been and are present. Now there is a great chance that we will experience competing ICT environments, lack of total responsibility for ICT delivery in an overall life cycle perspective and unclear responsibilities overall. I cannot see that there have been impact assessments that support the majority's view on this. SV, the Progress Party and the Central Party do not support the views of the Government and the Labour Party in this matter, and have promoted their own proposal on the continued accumulation of ICT environments in the FLO, to which the representative Width referred, and I refer to this. The mid-level maintenance of F-16 is proposed to move to Bodø. The majority of the Committee agrees to adapt the maintenance routines of F-16, that Ørland should have maintenance capacity in relation to supporting international operations, and that the resources currently used at intermediate maintenance should be used for other maintenance, which is necessary due to increased fluidity. Then the majority calls for an investigation of the whole and a new treatment for the spring in the long-term proposition. What this will result is unclear, but it doesn't make it easier to believe that the middle level of maintenance is still going to be in Ørland, as it is today, but we can hope. However, SV believes that it is reasonable that the distribution between Bodø and Ørland, as it is today, should continue, not least in view of the extensive technical professional environment in Ørland and the good interaction with the school system in the region. This proposition addresses the changes in the organisational structure of the FLO and the location of the management elements of the division and the nationwide production units. There is consensus in the Committee that the issue of location in the FLO will otherwise be raised by the Storting in the context of the long-term proposition coming to spring. The only localisation discussion made visible in the comments of the Committee is related to the management of the Production Unit Land-covering, where the entire Committee requests alternative investigations, including the Hovemoen at Lillehammer, while a minority, including SV, recommends that Lillehammer be selected. In this, of course, there are stronger leads towards Lillehammer, not least because of the fact that there are well-organised constructions and constructions for this function. However, I have great faith that we will be able to find a good solution for Lillehammer when the matter comes up next time. Competitive outsourcing, exception and Public Private Cooperation are all variants of a thought that the defence should perform less self-employedly and buy more from outside or rent more capacity from private individuals. There is nothing to suggest that this is becoming particularly cheaper or more efficient than operating the logistics services themselves, and SV has, in comments both in this case and in the budget for next year, clarified that this is an unfortunate development in defence. We're going to follow this development carefully in the time to come. Finally, I would like to point out the sharp criticism that has come from the employee organisations in connection with the work on this proposition. Of course, SV believes that the defence should relate to the negotiated contract body in all its processes, and in particular when it includes many people's jobs and extensive organisational changes. This proposition has created a great deal of ambiguity into the defence organisation, and it should also be in the interests of the defence that the processes take place in such a way that the results are unambiguous and capable of dealing with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1060	The change in defence is very extensive and it is important to ensure progress in the overall transition within the current long-term 2002–2005 period. Today, we are going to adopt the implementation of Phase 3 in the conversion of the Defence Logistics Organisation, which implies the establishment of a process-based internal structure, based initially on a structure of four divisions. At the same time, a more in-depth transformation of the FLO has been announced, which will be promoted in the long-term proposal for spring – for the period 2005–2008. The Christian People's Party sees it as important to further develop and strengthen the holistic approach across the defence sectors. Viewing defence as a single defence is essential for good and efficient cooperation and good use of resources, both economically and for the development of competences. It is important that the Defence Logistics Organisation is organised and operated as cost-effectively as possible, and – most importantly – that it is adapted to the defence needs. The FLO shall be mainly customer-funded and have other parts of the Defence Military Organisation as its main customer. The areas of activity, location, needs and requirements of the customer shall be the governing body for the tasks to be performed by the FLO, the extent to which the logistic activities are to be carried out, their location and the quality at which they are to be carried out. The FLO must be an organisation changing where conversion becomes a permanent method to be adapted to the activity. It will be decisive in relation to the objective of being a credible, preferred and competitive logistics organisation. The FLO Phase 3 is characterised by the grouping of activities under group management into four independent divisions from 1 January 2004. Each division shall act as a complete entity in the business of its own production area, market and business idea. The divisions are assigned their own business and performance responsibilities and governed by framework, objectives and performance requirements. The performance responsibility also involves responsibility for the development and renewal of the division's operations. A significant proportion of the defence budget is traded through the FLO. The material division shall carry out all major material acquisitions, upgrades and modifications in close cooperation with customers and overall authority. The division shall develop and maintain an apparatus capable of performing all the planning and carrying out functions related to the efficient execution and management of material projects. The material division exercises professional responsibility for all material during the lifetime of the material, i.e.: from idea and development to disposal. Due to the specific nature of the defence, both in terms of material design, technology and operational use, it has been found appropriate that the administrative authority itself be part of the professional authority. The material division shall therefore perform supervisory functions, inter alia: manage the works of destination, dispensation and control, in order to discharge overall responsibility for the management of the material. It is certainly appropriate to bring together so much responsibility for the planning, implementation and management of material projects. The material division develops and maintains the overall regulatory framework for the management and use of materials in the Defence, in accordance with civil and international laws and directives. And the supervisory function shall be further developed with a special focus on the issue of stability. The Christian People's Party has noted the Minister of Defence's answer in the Question Time to a written question, no. 18 in October this year on better procurement procedures with regard to the roll-out of personnel and quarantine provisions for former employees in purchasing functions. The question was dealt with in St.meld. No 11 for 2000-2001, on the relationship between the civil service, the political direction of departments and other social actors. It is the Ministry of Labour and Administration that is responsible for the follow-up to this call for proposals with regard to the rules applicable to all civil servants and that deals with the design, among other things. with staff transfer policy. In addition to the design of legislation and guidelines, the Council of State in its response makes it clear that there will be a question of the morality and integrity of individual employees. I fully agree with that. It's important, especially in the Defense Department, that makes investments every year for almost 10 billion kroner. There are ethical guidelines for the acquisition-related activities of the Defence, where it is stated that: ‘special care shall be exercised in respect of suppliers who have recently employed personnel who have been in charge of defence during the last two years’. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Ministry of Defence is working on the establishment of a new procurement code and that the Council of State will ensure that the ethical guidelines contained in the legislation meet the need for the control of defence employees and suppliers. It is important in order to prevent irregularities. In the proposition, we have also recorded that five production and performance units are to be set up to provide the services of supply and maintenance, and that four of these units will include the functions of supply, maintenance and an operating centre for logistics. The fifth unit is responsible for the national supply generation and shall be responsible for the central procurement, framework agreements and management of the total national stocks. Production and performance units take over current FLO units within their area as soon as after 1 January and no later than 1 August 2004. The Christian People's Party is not in favour of the majority comment, noting the criticism of the contract organisations in the work process until the proposal for division. I also heard the criticism, but in a letter from the Council of State we have got an overview of the meetings that have been held, so I perceive that the employee organisations have been briefed and have been involved in the process. In my opinion, the hues are when changes involving the current rules of the labour market, including the main agreements and the work environment law, start. I expect that this process will start during 2004, and then I take it as a matter of course that agreements and rules are followed. I do not see the need to repeat details that have already been addressed by other representatives, especially in the posts of the representative, Konradsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1101	The attitude shows that there is no significant disagreement about the need for conversion and savings in terms of the Defence Logistics Organisation and Logistics Services. On the other hand, there are shared opinions on how this should be done and on how the process should be done. I think it is important to note that the Committee is aware that what we are doing today is the third phase of the transition, and that is an overall consideration, but that the proposals that will involve a more in-depth transformation of the FLO will be dealt with first and foremost in the context of the long-term proposal for the next period. In this context, it is also important to note that a majority of the Committee, all outside the governmental parties, clearly states that the type of in-depth transformation must also be concerned with the organisation and location of local units. I think there are opportunities for conversion and saving that underlie what all the batches have seen in connection with this proposition. But then when we've disagreed on some points, it's obvious because we've questioned a couple of the things that are proposed, and by the process that sometimes takes place related to conversion. On the part of the Centre Party, we have found reason to point out that we find it unsatisfactory that when a person makes a change, there is no indication as to what the economic or district policy consequences of the transitions will be, as indicated in the proposition. Therefore, we believe that it is a condition that, before going further in relation to the migration work in the FLO related to the long-term plan, one should also have a more thorough analysis of the industrial and regional consequences, which are, of course, very important in terms of the overall changes in the defence system. It has also been mentioned that employee organisations have had reactions to the process. There may be different opinions on the extent to which they should be heard before and after what the Stortinge here treats. But what has to be the point is that the process is open and inclusive also in relation to the employees, so that they feel that they are being heard, if not consistently what they say, is being followed. In such a process that affects people as directly as the changes in defence do, they must at least feel that they have been given the opportunity to be heard. It is on two points that there is a particular distinction within the Committee as to how to convert. In my opinion, it is also about how one actually chooses to save in the Defence in the future. The starting point for a part of the savings proposed is that one should have more coordinated activities, a more coordinated function. Then some of us who think it is a bit remarkable that a proposal proposes the type of organisation of ICT activities that one in the proposition has proposed, an organisation that actually helps to disintegrate an environment that works well as an integrated and coordinated environment. The ICT environment has so far been a success for the Norwegian defence industry, which has also contributed to the impact of competence and nutrition, and has also achieved significant improvements in efficiency. That one then chooses to do something that concentrates less than today, and also leads to a split between FLO/D and FLO/ICT, some of us find it unfortunate, and it is pointed out in the setting. Then there's also another point where we separate teams in the committee, and where a majority has such strong concerns about what's going on, that I expect the Council of State has noticed it carefully. There are questions about the mid-level maintenance of F-16 in Ørland. While the rest of the proposals in the proposal are justified on the grounds that one here is going to have financial savings, the letter of 9 December from the Council of State confirmed that this had nothing to do with financial savings, but with other circumstances. One might wonder why it is then included here, and why it is not then postponed to the overall treatment one should have in the long-term plan related to the reorganisation of a number of other things. In fact, one from FLO/LUFT has come very far in saying from both Ørland and Bodø that it should be as stated in the proposition. But there should be another message after today's debate, because what is said by the majority in this Chamber today is something other than what was said by the Government, and I think it is also necessary for one to clarify in relation to the FLO/LUFT after today's discussion. The majority does not go as far as the Senter party would have liked, but the majority also say that here one does not have to change the existing division of labour until one has got an investigation, and that one then has to decide on that question again.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1119	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for a very tidy and thorough work on one to some extent very inaccessible proposition. Then I would like to stress that the conversion of defence is probably the largest restructuring of the public sector ever in our country. That's why it's a demanding job. It is also a demanding job for those affected, for employees and for communities. The conversion into the Defence Military Organisation is in the process of being implemented. So we need a mobile response defense to replace the large local invasion defense. This will be further elaborated, I expect, in the long-term proposition that we get to the Stortinget, hopefully in February. Today, phase 3 is considered in the conversion of the Defence Logistics Organisation. In general, we might say that logistics and support functions have a significant lag in relation to the changes in the military organisation, which has also been experienced by others. In addition, this needs to be seen in the context of the cooperation we have with some allied countries, for example. North Sea cooperation, which will focus on training, training, maintenance, acquisitions and logistics. In this round, two steps are taken to reorganise a partially overbureaucratic logistics organisation. Instead of separate logistical organisations for individual weapons, these are now merged and the FLO are to be divided into thematic divisions, i.e. divisions covering different tasks. Many would say that it was actually time. We remember the radar fiasco for the Coast Guard, where the FLO/SJØ had forgotten to conference with the FLO/LUFT and thus bought a radar that worked on the surface of the sea, but that did not capture either the Coast Guard's own helicopters or, for that matter, other aircraft movements. The second approach is the creation of four regional production units, located in Bardufoss, Bodø, Haakonsvern and Gardermoen/Romerike, in addition to a nationwide production unit. By letter to the Committee, the Council of State has clarified that the specified location relates only to the management of each production unit, estimated at between 20 and 30 years. Chief PRE will have the control and coordination authority over the use of all resources within its geographical area, irrespective of disciplines and across previous capabilities that have been based on weapons. Therefore, the resources of the FLO could be exploited more optimally. The Committee notes that the location of both the divisions and the PREs shall be approximated free of charge, i.e.: the use of existing and ready-to-move premises. Furthermore, it is a majority in the Committee that considers that nationwide PRE should be localised to Lillehammer, preferably to Hovemoen. The Labour Party has, however, entered the majority of the government parties in order to have it investigated, because it should be properly investigated to avoid any deviation from the location proposed in a proposal. We're asking for that to be done to the long-term proposition of spring. In the present proposition, there are many formulations that are suitable to confuse. That is why many questions have been asked to the Council of State that have been answered and attached to the setting. Responses are partly both elucidative and pedagogical, especially compared to the proposition. Therefore, both the questions and the answers are attached to the statement. What we do, among other things, has been clarified, and has also been confirmed in consultation with the Council of State, that local units, workshops and the like should be continued under new administrative management. So today's treatment doesn't mean closure or reorganization of these. At the hearings, the Committee was asked to postpone the proposal. That would mean that we had to add 471 million. kr extra on next year's budget and significantly delayed the conversion process. So we haven't done that. It's a unanimous committee that has gone in to deal with this proposition. However, the majority of the committees consider it necessary to clarify that in such a difficult transition as this, as I said at the outset, the rules in force in the labour market, the main agreements and the environmental law must be based on the relationship with the employees and their organisations. That's why this comment is also inserted. We assume that this will happen in the further work on the conversion of the Defence Logistics Organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1146	The Government is largely supported by the proposition. As long as the criticism is essentially that some people have had difficulty getting into the proposition, I think it's a criticism the government can live with. It's not necessarily just the proposition. The proposition is essential to ensure the progress of the conversion under previous decisions in the Stortinget and to ensure that the defence has real opportunities to achieve the objectives set by the Stortinget, among others. annual reduction and land acquisition. Postponing the launch of phase 3 or only partial implementation of the divisionalisation will make it difficult – not to say make it impossible – to achieve central quantitatively large-scale migration targets. It is therefore gratifying that the majority now confers on the Government the necessary powers to continue the conversion without delay in relation to the proposed timetable. With regard to a few of the minority's comments, I'm just saying that while the government and the majority want to have the relationship between Ørland and Bodø investigated, the minority is going to make that decision today. The government and the majority of the population are of the opinion that it is always an advantage to know as much as possible before deciding. It's surprising that it doesn't apply to the rest of the Stortinget. With regard to the proposals of the Progress Party on Huseby, there is a repetition. Huseby is today in a constitution that would require very large conversions if it were to house a large unit. In addition, Huseby is part of the financing of the conversion of the defence. This is why the majority consider it appropriate to use the building mass available today, and to look at possible co-location in the long term. It was those pretty small things that could be noticed in relation to the minority. For the period from 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2004. on December 2005, the savings targets of up to 1 300 annual works shall be met. The implementation of annual savings over the period alone involves a gross annual savings of approximately EUR 10 million. DKr 1.1 billion. Realisation of land reductions is equivalent to a gross rental reduction of approx. 600 million. kr. The FLO, as a mainly customer-funded organisation, shall continue to be necessary and in demand. The FLO is today a necessary and requested organisation and has important competence for the defence. The competence of the FLO will also be important in the defence of the future. However, there is a need to rationalise and make the organisation more responsive to changes taking place around the FLO. It is important that the support functions adapt dynamically to the requirements and needs of the military organisation. In order to ensure that the defence’s support functions are as adapted as possible to the needs of the military organisation, it is necessary to put in place mechanisms to ensure that the offer is neither too large, too small, in the wrong place or in the wrong form in relation to real demand. Therefore, the areas of activity, location, needs and requirements of the client shall be the governing body for the tasks to be performed by the FLO, the scope of the activity and where it is to be operated. In order to do this, we are dependent on a more dynamic FLO, in addition to the fact that the head of defence is given considerable powers to take the necessary action. The size and location of the different branches of logistics is something that the size neither can nor should govern in detail. Today’s decision gives the Stortinget political leadership, together with an organisational structure that enables the head of defence to achieve the rationalisation goals set by the Stortinget in the past, while providing the FLO with mechanisms to improve the ability to adjust scarce resources according to their needs. This is done according to the actual needs of the main customer and the main customer is known as the Defence Military Organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1169	The size shall today decide on the implementation of Phase 3 in the conversion of the Defence Logistics Organisation. The Defence Logistics Organisation was established to contribute to the effectiveness of the Defence Logistics function. In this context, the FLO has had an important role to play in the overall efficiency of defence. In St. prp. No 55 for 1999-2000 the Government proposed to set up a joint defence investment and development organisation. The work on improving the so-called phase 3 of the FLO was started. It became clear that the work on phase 3 would take place in parallel with phases 1 and 2. In St. prp. No 55 no concrete recommendation was made on the choice of a new form of association, such as management company, state enterprise, limited liability company or similar for the FLO. Nor were such proposals proposed in the staging proposition that Stortinget is now considering. It's called Innst. S. No 232 for 2001-2002 that any recommendations to choose a different form of association for all or part of the FLO will be promoted for the Stortinget in its own proposal in line with the leadership of the Stortinget. These leaders have not joined the government in the proposition we are considering today, and it is probably in this field that we can expect new content in the future long-term proposition, something that the representative Lund had in mind in his post. We have to remember that the change that the Stortinge adopts today for the FLO is being made to correct the structural crisis Defence was on its way. Let's not lose sight of the fact that the goal of the defence conversion is to create a credible defense that can solve the future's tasks. The defence claim has changed dramatically in the last ten years. The defense was organized during the cold war to deal with a situation where the threat was extensive. The need to remedy the situation at that time was a major mobilization defence. The condition for a defence of this type is no longer present. Because of the kind of defense needed by the Cold War, the support and logistics activities in the Defense were dimensioned in order to get a mobilization defense on their legs once it was needed. There was and is therefore a clear need to streamline the defence support activities. Reduction of expenditure related to support activities is also essential in order to release resources for operational activities at the top of the defence. The proposition that Stortinget is considering today is another step in this overall work. The Proposition on FLO Phase 3 shall ensure progress in the conversion of the FLO and the Defence in general according to the previous Decision on the Magnitude. The new organisation of the FLO shall be dimensioned according to operational and strength production needs and requirements. However, the organisation shall also be regulated according to the number of annual works. By 31 December 2005, the savings target is 1 300 annual works. 1000 of these annual works are to be withdrawn during 2004. When we look at the personal implications of the conversion, it is important to point out that the majority of the Committee says: ‘The Committee would stress that annual reductions must not result in an increase in the cost of using external consultants or in the exclusion of work.’ In conclusion, I would like to say that I am pleased that a majority has reached a compromise on middle-level maintenance at Ørland and Bodø main aviation stations. It will be exciting to follow the development of the matter beyond spring, for the last word about the FLO has not been said.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1189	No, the President thinks we can agree with the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1192	I would like to begin by thanking the Committee for its good work and for agreeing essentially on all the important issues and proposals contained in the proposal. Several have pointed out that what we are doing today is focusing on the need to adapt the support structure to the operational structure. It is true that more people have come to realize that we have taken significant steps to reorganise the operational structure – the pointed end – also with depopulation and closure. Now it's the support structure that's going on. It is also important to focus on the existence of the support structure for the operational structure, not vice versa. And I think it's a pleasure that more people have expressed themselves in the debate. As the rapporteur of the case was involved, today's proposal is essential to ensure the progress of the changeover. Some have indicated that the proposition is inconclusive. In this case, I am pleased that, through questions and answers between the committee and the department, we have been able to shed light on many of the details that have been important, not least because they highlight the consequences of the divisional breakdown on the downside. Some have raised questions about whether it was right to have a group loss — is it bureaucratic? To that end, we have replied that the group staff has been amputated from 98 to 30 and has thus taken a significant step in the right direction of red tape. The Chairman of the Procedural Party pointed out that 8 000 are currently employed in the FLO and that this is one third of the Defense, and the case rapporteur characterised the downsizing planned by the Defence Manager of 1 300 in two years as ‘defensive’. In that case, I will meet both concrete proposals and help with dragonflies when we look into further measures to reduce the FLO in the spring. Several have indicated that we agree on objectives and intentions. In the areas where the Committee has separate teams, the various views have been well elucidated, including through questions and answers between the Committee and the Ministry. Some have indicated that splitting FLO/ICT is a step backwards. It is not my vision, nor the vision of the defence management. On the contrary, the defence management believes that we have now taken out the downsizing and efficiency that is possible within the current organisation of FLO/ICT, and that if we are to be able to achieve further downsizing, the distinction between operation and other ICT activities is absolutely necessary. At least I am glad that the majority of the committee supports it. I am also pleased that in this way we signal that those who have the practical responsibility for the very strict downsizing requirements imposed on the defence by the Stortinget are now also willing to give those who have the practical responsibility full responsibility to identify how this can best happen. It is often the case that those who wear the shoe are best qualified to make difficult and controversial but necessary suggestions. Of course, it is unnecessary, or should be unnecessary, to say that in the further work from now to August, we assume that the defence management has good cooperation with the organisations within the current legislation. It has also made it clear to the defence leadership that they intend to do so, and have purposed until now. I would like to highlight a very special topic, namely Ørland versus Bodø, because this topic is just about what I said in the introduction: support structure versus operational structure. It is true that many people have said that the proposal has not come to save money. The proposal has come because we need to increase operational capability in terms of the number of flight hours on our F-16 fleet. So what GIL has suggested is that you cultivate Ørland more in the direction of being able to produce flight hours and maintenance aimed at it, while you have a maintenance at Bodø Main Aviation Station that is more long-term, or a middle-level maintenance. Fortunately, we have an opportunity to come back to spring. The arguments are so good that I am confident that we will be able to support what we are proposing, not least because the proposal underpins the unique characteristics of Ørland, namely the characteristics as an allied training area in connection with, among other things. NATO Air Meet, properties appropriate to an area where the focus is on operationality. And that's because I want Ørland well, that me and the department have suggested what we're doing. But we're going to get back to it, and we think that's okay. Since this is the last ordinary non-budget matter before Christmas, I would like to take the opportunity to thank both the President and the Committee for very good cooperation in this matter as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1218	The state councils have five additional possibilities, because it's going to be a line change. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1221	I might have declined the line, because the council replied in their article about what I was actually going to ask about. I was a little surprised that the majority of the committee in a comment on the position did not get along with the Right and Christian People's Party when it came to pointing out the rights that will apply in working life, which are both in the main agreement and in the Working Environment Act. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State now confirms that this will happen in the future in the reorganisation. But then I get to ask for something else. The divisional management shall be located at Kolsås and Kjeller. Were there other reasons than EBA's available capacity behind this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1230	I would like to be brief enough to say that I assume that the government parties in the committee considered the fact that the employment agreements should be complied with, as of course there was no reason to comment on them in particular in the position. And as Åse Wisløff Nilssen was in his post, there is also a very detailed account of every meeting that the defence management has had with the organizations. As for the question from Leif Lund, I would like to say it so briefly that the defence management has now prioritised vertical integration in an initial conversion of the FLO, so that each division is co-located and all the units belonging to a division, under that division. It is given priority as a first paragraph. So what the committee has been up to is, naturally, over the next long term, to look at whether or not to engage in horizontal integration, where each divisional management can possibly be brought together. But it's the focus on vertical integration first that makes the choices you've made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1237	The Progress Party is concerned that the FLO is best synergized by the different divisional managements. So we want to co-locate these functions. The Government signals that, in the coming years, there will be no investment funds of importance for new buildings or installations and that it is natural in this context to use available military infrastructure to locate the activities. That is why the Progress Party wants to co-locate the management apparatus to the FLO with group management and state apparatus for the four divisions just to Huseby. In this way, you can take advantage of an overall management model, like the organisation of the defence's top management apparatus, and the premises that are already in place. Unfortunately, the majority of the other parties don't seem to take this inward. The question to the Council of State is whether she has not assessed or wanted to assess this option, and whether a location elsewhere than Huseby will involve increased costs for both start-up and further operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1242	I note that the majority of the committee in the vote states that the question of future use of Huseby is a closed chapter. The majority of the Committee refers to the previous decision and that Huseby has been decided upon for disposal. I therefore see no reason to comment further. What I would say, however, as I was in my answer to Leif Lund, is that the defence management believes that in order to take the necessary effect of this stage of conversion, it is most important to coordinate each division in order to be able to streamline and downgrade. It suggests that it is not right today and at once to merge all divisional managements into one location. But once the divisionalization is completed, in the next phase, it could be rational to also go on horizontal integration, and we'll get back to that in view of the next four-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1249	The representative Hernæs expressed as usual some kind of doubt as to whether the co-debateants are able to read staging propositions. I can rest assured that we can, but it is not entirely unthinkable that we read them in a way that is different from that of the representative Hernæs – and we are not alone in that. So to the question. The Minister of Defence says that the savings target of 850 men cannot be achieved in existing FLO/ICT, which has already been reduced from 1,550 per year. 1 January 2002 to 1 190 at the end of this year. Does the Council of State support this assumption?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1256	I would first like to make it clear that in terms of downsizing savings in relation to FLO/ICT, the profit potential identified by the defence management is linked to the actual collection of the environment, as far as I remember, in 340 years' work. And the defence management's view is that a continuation of today's ICT business will not be able to achieve the same annual savings within the current time horizon of two years. So it's the defence management that the Stortinge is required to mannify 5,000 people. Then it is important that those responsible for this reduction use their best judgement in relation to how it can happen. It is also stated in the replies we have given from the Department to the Committee that there are nearly 60 jobs in the administrative units of FLO/ICT operations around the country, and it is considered that most of them will be lost. So I have full confidence in this and in the fact that those who are best suited to exercise the discretion, are the ones who have done it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1264	The question of maintenance of F-16 is a brief information issue in the proposition. If it were to provide as unique opportunities for Ørland as the Council of State here suggests, it is a bit remarkable that one did not use any more space in the proposition to explain in detail those possibilities. As far as I understand, it has already been notified by the FLO/LUFT that intermediate-level maintenance in Ørland will be terminated as inspections are completed. Special equipment and equipment for maintenance have been notified to Bodø and it has also been notified that the organisational downsizing will be carried out. These are measures for which there is no longer coverage after today's date setting. My question is: In line with the attitude of the setting, will the Council withdraw the messages given from FLO/LUFT to the respective flight stations?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1271	In a comprehensive response to the Committee’s questions, related to the issue of Ørland versus Bodø, the intention of bringing together intermediate levels of maintenance in Bodø is set out in detail, without leading to de-employment in Ørland, in order to be able to concentrate on what is most important in Ørland, namely air hours. Of course, the fact that the Committee wanted to clarify this in more detail, the Ministry is correcting itself to the full. And it'll be done in the next four-year plan. Of course, the defense will also comply with what was initially intended as an information matter for the Storting in this proposition, because it is considered that where there are individual employees and carry out maintenance, it is initially up to the head of defence to decide. It means, in practical terms, that this decision will now be postponed after the four-year proposal has been dealt with, if nothing should happen in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1276	I'm also going to deal with the relationship between Ørland and Bodø. The reason why the Committee has assessed that this cannot be an information matter, but that this must be addressed by the Stortinget, is precisely the lead in previous Stortingen settings on the relationship between the main Ørland and Bodø airfields in terms of intermediate technical maintenance. I also realized that there was a direct error in Kjetil Bjørklund's articles. There is an overall committee that is actually moving towards the move of intermediate maintenance now from Ørland to Bodø. It is clear that the Defence and Defence Logistics Organisation must act on right now. Then it's important to get this total assessment of the working distribution between the two main airfields, which are our two main airfields. I would like, among other things: refer to the Military Investigation. I'd like to ask the Council of State if she will look at all the aspects that the committee mentions in its comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1283	There is no doubt that, as requested by the Committee, the four-year maintenance hours will be set out, together with the other proposals promoted by the Chief of Defence in the Military Investigation, which the Government considers to be justified. In the case of Ørland and Bodø, the situation is that we need 12,500 flight hours per. years. We don't have that today. So in order for us to achieve that goal, Ørland's main aviation station has to be able to increase flight time production from 4,000 hours to 4,600 hours. Then it is important that all maintenance personnel we have in Ørland can be used for this type of overhaul to get an operational number of hours in the air. So there's no personnel impact in this, except to put other tasks in focus. I still think it's very rational. I also believe that it is possible to reach such a decision through thorough treatment when the four-year proposal is promoted, and that will, of course, be explained in detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1290	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1295	I take the word again to address a couple of very special questions that are relevant to the FLO. Over the past few weeks, we have had a number of press releases focusing on the stability of former employees in the Defence Logistics Organisation and in the Defence – or, for that matter, the Ministry of Defence – who have gone directly over as leaders or lobbyists in the defence industry. In the case of helicopters of type NH-90, i.e. Eurocopter, this has actually been very unfortunate, because in my opinion it hurts an important case, namely the acquisition of the best helicopter for the rescue helicopter service. It is no secret that the Workers' Party believes that it should just be the NH-90. That is precisely why it is very unfortunate that the whole case is being damaged due to problems of stability related to Norwegian representatives of Eurocopter. There are not small sums that the FLO spends on investing and purchasing equipment, actually the average amount per. year 10 billion kroner. And it is problematic when former employees of the defence procurement projects enter directly into a position of potential suppliers for the same projects, as the Minister of Defence also underlined in a response to the representative Carsten Dybevig in the Question Time of 22 October this year. I have understood that, unlike in a number of other countries, there are little clear rules in Norway in relation to staff transfers. I would like to ask the State Council to take a closer look at quarantine and address this in the Government, even if the Defense has its own legislation stating that special attention should be paid to suppliers who have recruited personnel who have been in charge of Defence for the past two years. I think this is serious. Even in the past few weeks, I have been visited by relatively many lobbyists who show up as representatives of a company. These are people who were, in fact, employed in the FLO or in the Ministry of Defence a short time ago. It is very important that when the Defense acquires material, we are absolutely sure that this is happening in a proper way. Then finally cards back to Ørland. I think we've been given a lot of insight into the relationship between Ørland and Bodø now. When the majority of the committee is so committed to this investigation, it's precisely because we want to strengthen and secure both of these two main aviation stations. These are the two main airfields that we have. I fully agree with the Council of State that Ørland is unique in Europe in terms of hunting flying exercises, because here you can fly directly across the sea without disturbing anyone. It also means that it's one of the advantages we have in NATO in relation to the Prague Capabilities Commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1306	I'm sorry to take advantage of the President's patience so closely beyond Christmas, but I felt there were a few questions I should have briefly answered. The first thing I want to do is recapitulate the relationship between Bodø and Ørland. I am pleased with the point made by the committee leader that it is important to strengthen what is the advantage of Ørland as an operating air station. My goal is also that both Bodø and Ørland should be with us further, but perhaps with an increased role sharing, so we don't have to do exactly the same at both aircraft stations. We'll get back to that in the next four-year proposition. When it comes to the second question, related to lobbyists, there is a lot of thinking about it – it's former gamblers who enter the Stortning as lobbyists, or former state employees approaching state agencies. My position is quite clear, as I stated on 22 October, that we should be very careful. The NHO has a two-year quarantine system that we're looking at in the Department of Defence. We strictly practice our own legislation, and that means special care that people who have worked in the Ministry of Defence, and later to represent an enterprise, have a front-line contact with the Ministry. However, in the case that the committee leader relates to the NH 90, I would like to point out that in this case there is a former member of the defence staff, as I understand from the media statements, which are now mentioned in the context of the Ministry of Justice’s procurement – that is not the Ministry of Defence, and this may be a slightly different issue. But in relation to my field of action, we are trying to exercise greater care in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1317	Nor can I fail to come back to that, especially after my post regarding Bodø/Örland. I think it was a strange representation the council had. She said that she has not taken into account any economic consequences, as far as I understood, in relation to this by moving from Ørland to Bodø. I also pointed out in my article the economic consequences of a move, without any calculations being made. Such calculations I think the Council of State should do. I hope she can give us them quite soon, so that we can not have this discussion around Ørland going. I understand that I also extend the debate with this, but I think it is so important that this requires a very good explanation. Why are we going to have something in Ørland and something in Bodø, when we can essentially do all this in Ørland? I can't believe it's going to interfere with flying hours. There is capacity in Ørland, there are opportunities to do this in Ørland. So why should we do that in Bodø? I would like to have a good explanation for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1326	I would like to quote from a letter from the Department of the Committee: ‘The main point of the collection is not to save, but to increase the number of flight hours, operational availability and operational capability of F-16 at the same price.’ Since the purpose is not to save, and since it does not affect the number of employees, no more calculation is necessary here either. «Wages and salaries are the same because the total annual framework is not to be changed. In this it is implicit that there will be no cuttings in the FLO’s organisation at the Orland Main Aviation Station’. It's in the answer to the committee. That is why this does not require an economic impact assessment. This is a role division to increase the number of operational flight hours by focusing on short term flight maintenance, which is needed to keep the aeroplanes in the air.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1341	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 1401]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1357	I take the word primarily in a matter that might go unnoticed. It's a unanimous attitude, and we're joining the proposition, I would have almost said of course. However, I take the word both as the case rapporteur and as the committee leader to refer to what I said when we had a similar proposition up a year ago. I then pointed out that there is a lot of money flying between chapters here, and that the regrouping includes more and more chapters for each year. Among other things, I said:\t\t You ‘I would like to see which other departments or other areas of central government that are scalding and choosing with money in this way, which have so large sums as to fly out and into the state budget, and which with a pen stroke can only remove 200 million. kr from a budget chapter in relation to the adopted budget, without we blinking.» In his reply, the Council of State said, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the ‘The reason why this figure is higher than for most other departments is quite logical. The defense has investment decisions of the order of 10 billion DKK a year, and then there will always be a small part of this sum of 10 billion that there is a need to move on at the end of the year.» It might be like this. Nevertheless, I think it is necessary to point out that the defence must also be able to show a certain budgetary discipline. The changes at the end of the year are still quite quantifiable in relation to the adopted budget, also in relation to the revised national budget. New buildings and installations are being reduced, for example: with 632 million. kr, while major acquisitions of equipment are increased by 100 million. kr. The rescue services increase by 30 million. kr in relation to the budget initially adopted, while the Coast Guard is increased by 20 million. kr. The latter is in so far as logic, since the Defence Committee in its last year's budgetary position asked the Government to return to the Coast Guard, correctly in the revised national budget, if necessary, in order for the Coast Guard to be able to carry out its duties properly. I'm interpreting it so that the new millions put in there are just because it became necessary. But overall, the changes are still too many and slightly too large. The defence must also be able to draw up budgets that do better than they seem to do. The Committee also notes that the Ministry has had to reduce the 2003 budget within the large budget chapters due to some large exceedances in 2002. This, of course, weakens the budget of the year. We therefore ask that the defence try to comply with the budgets, now that the redispatch proposal has been adopted. Otherwise, the defence budget will have to wear with a continuous lag. Finally, just to mention it: tomorrow we will have a debate on foreign operations. The additional allocation to the ISAF Force, now in Afghanistan, has been included in this conversion proposition, to which a unanimous committee has joined.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1385	St. pp. No 20, About changes in permissions etc. in the 2003 defence budget, quite a few million dollars are allocated to a relatively small budget. It would be interesting to hear the views of the Council of State on this, whether she feels well that there are such major changes in a relatively small budget. Just long-term was what was supposed to characterize the defense during this four-year period. Posts can be used, for example: It is mentioned that the Army is reduced by 60 million. kr, the air defence is reduced by 107 million. kr, the rescue helicopter service shall be increased by 30 million. SEK and Norwegian forces abroad increased by 30 million. kr. Item 47 New buildings and structures, Defence Building Chapter 1710, are reduced by a total of 600 million. kr, and e.g. Item 45 Large new purchases are increased by 109 million. kr. Together, there is a lot of money going back and forth. I'm very excited about the Council's response.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1394	I agree, of course, that it is a goal to meet perfectly in terms of both operational and investment plans in the individual years, and that in this way a regrouping proposition can be made that goes into zero. However, the redeployment proposed in this reclassification proposal is quite normal compared to what has to be expected in terms of budgets as large as the Ministry of Defence. I can give you comparable examples. In 1998, it was 120 million. SEK in the regrouping proposal, in 1999 there was 73,6 million. kr, and this year it is approx. One hundred million. kr. So it's relatively normal. There's no disagreement about the intention, but I'll be careful to dramatize what's here. As a result of the 108 million exceedance. In 2002, there was a reduction in the 2003 budget. But there were also revenues of 72.3 million. kr, which resulted in a net reduction in the defence budget of 36 million. NOK – not 108 million. kr. When there is a real reduction of operations from 2002 to 2003 at approx. 1.8 pst. of the total budget, it must be considered as a pretty good result that the CMO has initially been able to maintain the operational framework – despite that exceedance in 2002. The additional operating costs, which will be charged to the investment budget, apply, inter alia, to: non-budget costs related to the fire at KNM ‘Orkla’ – which was difficult to predict – and some similar projects. There is no disagreement that intention and purpose should be zero dollars moved. But the moves that have been made here are clear within what is responsible and quite common. I feel very well about that situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1407	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1401]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1415	First, the President brings up a matter that concerns yesterday's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1440	Then Stortinget will vote in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1448	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Sylvia Brustad, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 2, from Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party An alternative is to vote between the Socialist Left's proposal and the Committee's vote. The proposal from the Socialist Left is as follows: ‘1. The Government asks the Government to make proposals for a change in the law in which the provisions of the Outdoors Act are amended so that Section 1 is replaced by the following: The purpose of this Act is to protect the nature of the outdoors and to ensure the right of the general public to move, stay, etc. in forests and land, in mountains and along sea and watercourses, so that the possibility of exercising outdoor activities as a health promotion, welfare and environmentally friendly recreational activity is maintained and promoted.2. The size asks the Government to propose amendments to the law where Section 1a, second paragraph of the Outdoor Act is added: unless the area is worked out empty or cultivated land, a belt along the sea and along water and watercourses that permit movement shall be considered as land.3. The Government asks the Government to explore the options for adapted legally binding maritime and waterway routes, including an assessment of reasonable level of detail, procedure and financing of planning processes and implementation.4. The size asks the Government to consider establishing a limit on how close bathing and resting can be to inhabited houses or cabins.5. The Government asks the Government to assess which state properties in the beach zone can be laid out as ‘airfield’ under Section 34.6. of the Outdoors Act. In the context of the Revised State Budget for 2004, the Government asks for proposals to strengthen the protection of coastal open-air areas.7. The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for more unambiguous and restrictive criteria in the Planning and Building Act in order to allow the State to grant a derogation and further authorise it to exempt municipalities from the right to grant a derogation.8 [[Shikanese bars or uninhabited prohibition signs]] The Storting asks the Government to promote proposals for changes to the law where Section 13 of the Law on the Outdoors The Committee had ceased: Document No 8:134 [[2002-2003]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1504	President! I have voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1511	At that time, 84 voted in favour of the vote and 15 voted in favour of the proposal and the vote was therefore adopted. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to review public access to the beach area and to propose the necessary changes to the Outdoor Law and the Planning and Building Act of the Stortinget during the spring of 2004 to ensure free movement in the coastal zone and to tighten up the exemption practices from the building ban in the 100-metre zone.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1531	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Olav Gunnar Ballo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, on the proposals No. 3-7, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, we are voting on the proposals of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to examine the possibility of setting up its own independent hospital directorate to be given the primary responsibility for the further development of the ISF and the DRG system. The Directorate shall also be entrusted with the task of verifying that the regional health establishments are following their ‘responsible’ responsibilities.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all authorised private health providers are granted ISF reimbursement.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the possibility of assigning greater responsibility for education and research to private hospitals, clinics and, where appropriate, specialists.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that the laboratory and x-ray activities of regional health establishments have their own accounts and budgets that provide a realistic basis for comparison with other private and public actors.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that all approved laboratories and the X-ray institute can receive full reimbursement irrespective of whether they have an agreement with regional health establishments.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1578	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to facilitate the reimbursement of contract specialists and psychologists, private laboratories and x-ray institutes through healthcare companies, and that financial resources for reimbursement are transferred from public funds to health businesses.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to design the financing system for specialist health services to strengthen and further develop prevention and health care activities in charge of specialist health services, and to finance environmental measures that are not directly individualised through the grants to health enterprises.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e1614	During the debate, John I. Alvheim put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party, and it is only right that we should vote on it. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Crones732Regional health enterprises70Assistances to health enterprises may be transferred. may be used under items 71, 72, 73, 74, 75 increased by 1500000000 from NOK 312 690000 to NOK 1 812 690000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e2478	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party, transmitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 10 December 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government, in good time before the submission of the 2005 State Budget, to submit a notification that addresses the whole of Norwegian pharmaceutical policy from the application for authorisation and until patients can make use of it, including the role of the State Medicines Agency, how to refund medicinal products in the future, the timing of procedures, the inclusion of new medicinal products in the reimbursement system, how to set prices, where and how to place medicinal products on the market, and how to ensure equal access for the Norwegian population to medicinal products irrespective of their place of residence at an approximately equal price.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e2496	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 10 December 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide the Storting with a broad and comprehensive review of the BIP, including procedural and ad hoc procedures.’ It is the Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party that support the proposal, but the President assumes that the Progress Party and the Central Party support this subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e3165	The vote will take place on the proposal by Harald T. Nesvik, representative of the People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, transmitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 10 December 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a case in which the coverage of resources for recreation, leisure interests, training, etc. by the people’s concerns. in the case of persons with disabilities, further investigation, including the economic consequences.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e3183	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Per Ove Width, on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, on proposal No. 2, from Per Ove Wide on behalf of the Advance Party. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to co-locate the management apparatus of the FLO with group management and staffing for the four divisions, at Huseby.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e3207	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘All relevant ICT environments in the Defence are brought together organisationally and professionally and the entity is assigned to ensure the overall development and management of the ICT area and the implementation of efficiency improvement. The entity shall be entrusted with the implementation of horizontal trade in the field of ICT.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-16.ana.ud900e3992	There is no record.
