ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e28	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the county of Hordaland: Erlend Nornes For Uppland County: Morten Ørsal Johansen For the county of Rogaland: Jostein W. Rovik For the South-Trundellag County: Hanne Dyveke Sweet Hagen
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e50	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e55	I suggest Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e60	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e84	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Lars Sponheim Council Svein Ludvigsen Council Kristin Krohn Devold The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We'll start with the first main questions from Inge Ryan.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e103	I want to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question. We have an agricultural minister who has made a strong profile on this with small scale production. It was also the theme of Dagbladets Helgemagagasin last Friday, which reads as follows: ‘ – Some people think you’re using a lot of big words about small-scale production. But don't do enough to make it right? - Yeah? says Sponheim. He seems a little irritated. – What else am I going to do, then?’ My question is therefore: is there an idea drying in the department and in the Council of State office for the time being? Has the Council of State been out of stimuli in achieving the objectives of a different agricultural policy where it stimulates small scale production?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e115	We hope that the Council of State is not annoyed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e118	We'll see beyond the question mark. There is no idea-drying in the Ministry of Agriculture. If there's something we're working on, it's getting Norwegian farmers and Norwegian farmers a broader income base by being able to further process and do more with their products, so that they can get a greater value creation and thus a greater income and profitability. Traditional agriculture is under pressure, so it is important that farmers also have alternatives to making more money, to be able to process more, etc. We're in the transition to a mature market where it'll obviously be more to profit from diversity, do things with their products that make it possible to take out higher prices. We have organized this in our own way in the Ministry of Agriculture with a project called "Agriculture plus", what will grow in agriculture in the future and provide opportunities. We are among others implement an action plan to facilitate the start-up and operation of food businesses. It will be quite central for the new Food Safety Authority to take on such a culture — not to prevent and be difficult for new, small-scale food processing establishments, but actually to make it easier for them to do so. We see that there are many exciting projects going on in finding sales channels, which are some of the problems for small scale production. The peasants themselves start a market of their own Bond all over the country during this summer. We know other important projects, including: «Legend road» in Rogaland. We also see an increasing growth, which we put a lot on in this project, by people combining their own food production with tourism/restaurant operations on their farms and producing for local markets. Other important things that happen in this area, which are in the process of creating a much more diverse food supply based on local production, are, for example, which is now being implemented from 1 July, the free establishment of milk production without quotas, if it is processed by itself. That's not the answer for everyone, but for too many towns. We've also started a branding system that allows you to own a geographical label, a trademark of origin. It's this government that has done it. The sum of this and the many other things that are in the plan is: it does a lot, and it has to do a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e129	There is a dramatic situation in rural agriculture. This is expected to continue in the years to come. This means that if we are to save rural agriculture, we must move on to a whole new track in agricultural policy. That means that we need to shift to a much more focus on quality, on organic production and on food culture. I know that the Council of State is concerned about it. But it's the concrete tools, stimulus, that really make you get into the new track, and not just talk about it, whether it's in the newspaper interview or in party speeches. Therefore, I would like to challenge the Minister of Agriculture on two points: Can the Minister of Agriculture imagine the introduction of VAT exemptions for niche products? If the Minister of Agriculture thinks that there could be an exemption from the turnover tax on niche products, for example: up to a sum of NOK 100000?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e136	Yes, let me first say – and I don't get annoyed when I say that – that it's now that being allowed to talk and argue is one of the most important tools of a politician and democracy. I'm a little stated that this is going to be difficult, it's actually possible to do it and at the same time do lots of concrete things, as I think we do. Let me put it this way: it is absolutely essential that agriculture finds more bones to stand on and do other things, as I said at the outset, because traditional volume production in a growing economy will make up an increasingly smaller proportion, and then farmers have to raise more income in other areas, among other things. do something with their products to enable prices to grow at the same time as the economy. That's a very central point. Then you have to do the things you're good at, for example. producing quality, could document a history behind the products, and many other things. I am a little surprised that SV's excellent business policymakers are primarily calling for tax relief measures to stimulate this. I do not want to respond specifically if I agree to any VAT measures. I think that is difficult to achieve, but in general we need to use taxes more as a tool to stimulate small-scale production and industrial development on farms. We've done that, and I think we need to look into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e143	The President is inclined to share the Council's view that there is nothing wrong with party speeches. There is nothing wrong with Dagbladet either. There will be four follow-up questions – the first Bjørn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e148	Everyone knows that Norwegian agriculture is to ensure that people are supplied with safe food and that individual farmers have a reasonable income. There is also a tradition behind it with a right and an obligation to keep the country in charge and exploit the resources that actually exist in the country. We now also see that the European Union is turning its agricultural policy into less support for so-called production-driven measures. How does the Government follow this up in order to strengthen measures that make production in Norway take on the basis of the natural resources available to us in the country, and to strengthen production based on fertilizers and power feed to a lesser extent?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e156	Let me first say that in Norwegian agricultural policy we have gone very far in using production neutral instruments, which are not directly linked to sales volume and production volume. The most extreme case is well in such an important district industry as the sheep industry, where perhaps as much as three-quarters or two-thirds of the income comes directly above the state budget, unbound by what is directly delivered to the slaughterhouse of food production. It is part of the collective goods produced by agriculture. The problem is that the individual farmer is also a business economist, who calculates what is profitable to do. If we get there that there is no economy in supplying food products to the market, that it does not cover the variable costs, it will not be produced either. With the decoupling with which the EU is working, which can go so far as to make production unprofitable, nothing will be produced either. Nor will there be much care for rural and cultural landscapes – and that is the balance we have to try to maintain in Norwegian agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e165	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e168	I agree that traditional agriculture must not be decoupled with the new economic opportunities that lie within the industry. However, if there is an idea-drier in the department – as it may seem – it has not been in agriculture's seas in spring. They have made a number of new proposals related to agricultural production with regard to new industrial development — green care, the use of land resources, small scale production, and organic production — and they have wanted to see traditional agriculture more closely linked to the new nutritional potential. Then it's a little important which signals are given by the department, also verbally. My question is: how will the Minister of Agriculture prevent the fragmentation of the new business opportunities of traditional production by, for example, the division of this into partial agricultural negotiations and budgetary questions, and how will the Minister of Agriculture ensure a more long-term relationship with the agreements made with agriculture, such as: through two-year agricultural agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e177	There is definitely no idea-drying in the Ministry of Agriculture. If you've been in the newspapers and the media for the last year in this area, you'll see that there's a lot of new grips from the Ministry of Agriculture. So it's kind of a counter-reaction, and often it's like being skeptical on the part of the agricultural organizations. I could frame a lot of examples of that – but now leave it. The important thing is that we are able to mobilise all the good forces to see the new opportunities that agriculture has to take on if we are to be able to take care of living areas. So to the principle of what is now happening by making the agricultural agreement clearer becomes an income agreement for the farmers. All other general policies involving third parties outside agriculture are taken out of the agricultural agreement and become more like a general industrial policy in the agricultural sector, where a government is setting up, and where a collapse is taking place. This may mean that organisations are getting a little less power in agriculture, but it means that government and growth are gaining more power in these areas. Then I would like to stress that much power is transferred to the municipalities through the changes we are now doing, namely to the popular local democracy of agricultural policy. It's the organizations that are sceptical about it. It is good local democracy for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e186	There is no doubt that the small-scale programme that Bjarne Håkon Hanssen introduced when he was Minister of Agriculture has come to a very good conclusion. I have seen it because some competence names now build networks, among other things. relative to small producers. It's very good that it happens. But then we see that there are many – at least I have a concrete example – who are plagued by getting goods delivered because the big chains do not want to accept what they deliver. Then you kind of become a little powerless. If you think new, think about new species and new ways of doing things, and meet a chain that doesn't want the product at all, then you're kind of done with the checkmate. Does the Council have any solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e193	I record that it is rare there is so much struggle to get the fathership as with the famous Value Creation Program for Food. In any case, I see that the Small User Team is the most common and says that they are initiators. Fortunately, it is in an open democracy that good ideas are raised in an open social debate, so I think many can boast of having played an important role. Now we're also trying to sharpen and reorganize this program so much that it becomes a more strategic program, so that we can also get good and even better results out of it. With regard to the four large food chains that control food sales in Norway, I share the concern expressed by the representative here, namely that they have a lot of power to keep out small-scale producers who cannot deliver large volumes every day across the country. It's a huge challenge. I've had a lot of conversations with these people about it. They assure verbally, they talk and say that they will put up to market the small scale products of agriculture, but it remains to be seen that they do. And a little bit of the key is that small-scale production, at least at regional and local level, can get so much volume that it's economics to sell it to these actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e200	If it's hard to compete for the fatherhood, you could bet on having fun. Øystein Hedstrom – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e205	Small-scale production in Norway is important, but we need to be aware that it cannot replace the significant bulk production we have. It can be a supplement and provide income opportunities for some farmers. I think the department has done a lot. The size shall be up to 500 million. Kr overall to a conversion program, and it pop up ideas both here and there around the country. But the problem is just deliveries. I know about a lady in Ski who has delivered broccoli to the Meny chain for some years, with good quality and at low price – she is absolutely competitive. Then the Norway Group concludes an agreement with Bama, and it's the end of the deliveries, despite the fact that the prices of the broccoli are lower, the quality is better and the customers are asking for it. People go to this Menu store and ask to get the broccoli, but they answer that there is an agreement with Bama. What is the reaction of the Council of State? Is this a breach of competition law or the intention of competition law?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e214	Let me first say that I think it's very important that we get that we have to have at least two thoughts in our head at the same time when it comes to this. We need good and efficient volume production, and many farmers in the country still need to be employed. However, as fewer and fewer of them are disappearing, it is important that more people are given the opportunity to feed small-scale production and further processing both in the food and agricultural fields and in completely different areas. We must succeed in both. Perhaps we could achieve that those who end up with traditional volume production — the vast majority of them remain on farms — could start with other production and engage in other industries. That should be a goal. SND now has a comprehensive program called "I Found, I Found!" that invites farmers who want to look at new alternatives. We see enormous support for the ministry's initiative and good ideas. So the question of food sales and the big chains, which is a problem. I think one of the most important things we can do is to keep pressure on them, use our consumer power, go and demand products in these stores and also help open other alternative sales channels. There are farmers in the process of establishing small ones, which can become large.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e229	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e232	I have a question for the Minister of Defence. According to the Nations on 19 and 21 May, Norway is among the countries in our part of the world that have the most closed regime around the sale of weapons. Secrets and restrictions on the export of weapons may, of course, be necessary in some cases — in fact, both prudent and sensible from the point of view of security policy. However, I see no reason – at least for little reason – for Norway to have rules that are more restrictive than those of our close allies and other countries with which it is natural to compare. Can the State Council clarify whether Norway has different and more restrictive rules than countries it is natural to compare with, and in case yes, why is this the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e242	I would first like to draw your attention to the fact that in the case of the export licence, for example. for arms sales, it is sorted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That means it's sort under another state council, and I don't want to go into details about the question, but I want to answer it in general. Of course, I agree with the representative Nybakk that Norway should have the same legislation as the country it is natural to compare with. We're part of a NATO community, and it's natural that we have the same practice as other allies in NATO that it's natural to compare with. Of course, I'm going to contribute to a review to see if we have the same practice or if there are deviations. But I must then be allowed to do so in consultation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as it formally sorts under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to handle the export of weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e249	I thank you for your answer and accept it. I want to add that Norway has a weapons industry that is also an important part of our technological industry, and that it is a lot of jobs. We trade with many countries in other parts of the world. This is, of course, good – we all believe that this should be the case when we have a weapons industry. But this should happen in as much open a form as possible. It is not necessary for unnecessary secrecy to create suspicion in relation to our weapons industry, which I believe is important that we have. We also have a code related to the sale of weapons that means that we should not sell weapons to countries that violate human rights. I would ask that the Council of State also take that question with you to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. There are very special rules for the sale of weapons to allies and to Nordic countries. But after what I've looked at the lists available, there are some countries outside both the alliance and the Nordic countries that we might want to question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e258	In any case, I would like to begin by saying that I fully agree with the questioner that the Norwegian arms industry is a legitimate part of the Norwegian industry and that it is important that it has proper and good framework conditions and, of course, as much as possible with the arms industry in other allied countries. And there's no reason to have an excessive secrecy associated with the sale of weapons. It's a legitimate product. The Norwegian practice of selling weapons first to our allies and to Nordic countries also makes us feel very confident that our weapons will land in her, to which we have a strong trust. To the extent that there is a need to review the rules with regard to some countries other than the Allied or Nordic Group, there is, of course, an opportunity to have a dialogue on this with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But my general position is that we must not get ourselves into a situation where the sale of weapons to our allies is restricted beyond what the other country has, because it will be devastating for an important industry and important jobs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e265	There will be follow-up questions – Bjørn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e268	According to some media yesterday, it was found that both the Labour Party, the Advance Party and we in SV can think of a new, thorough review of the criteria for the hall of Norwegian weapons. It turned out that we are selling to land where there are widespread violations of human rights. I want to ask the Council of State: is it so that we can sell weapons to countries that violate human rights? And what kind of definition does it use when it applies to human rights, in case we can sell weapons to these countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e275	I'm asking for understanding that I don't go into precise definitions here, especially not definitions of this, where parts of it sort under another state council. I also note that there is clearly a large majority – if it is right that the Workers' Party, SV and the Advance Party agree – who want to see which groups of countries to export to. Of course, it's quite possible that the population does. I just want to remind you in general of what I said in my previous answer, that we must not let accusations of human rights violations against some of our allied countries oblige us to have a completely different policy for arms exports than that of other European allied countries, because it will put our defence industry in an impossible situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e283	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e286	My question also goes to the Minister of Defence. In the range of what I would call less successful projects the Council of State has been responsible for, a lot of things can be mentioned, ranging from belt wagons and, most recently, the Golf program, which seems to have come out of control and will probably cost us several hundred million dollars, perhaps up to $1 billion, to wrong-buyed radars for the Coast Guard, which could cost us over 200 million. kr. We are now facing the frigate project, which also seems to have come out of control. The frigates are built, as is known in Spain, with a cost framework of 17.3 billion 2000-kr. Recent media have suggested that this sum will cost at least NOK 5 billion, mainly because of weapons systems that were not included in the original project. Then my question is, does the Council of State feel that she has full and complete control of the situation? When can we see the end of these poorly successful projects, which are wasted on taxes and no good advertising for the defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e295	I would like to take the opportunity to say that I strongly disagree with the description given by the representative Width. In the case of belt wagons, this government council changed the regime initiated by the previous government, so that the belt wagons could benefit the Red Cross and other non-governmental organisations, although I am aware that there were many who wanted me to make that decision a little faster than what I actually did. In the case of Project Golf, there is a solid majority in the UK behind the division of the project as it is now, among other things. at the Workers' Party and the Right and the other Government Parties. This project is fully consistent with the plans submitted. Moreover, it is one of the issues dealt with in the investment proposition that is now with the Defence Committee. In the case of radars, you might say a lot strange about them, but at least it wasn't this council that bought them. They were purchased in 1998. What this council has done is to make sure that the Coast Guard will have helicopters from the fall of the year. What is important is to get an operational solution to a problem that has proven to be based on a previous purchase. As regards the frigates, there is also one of the issues involved in the proposition under consideration in the Committee, including: We have a proposition related to Link-16, a new technological element for the frigates. It is quite correct that the Link-16 project was not part of the original frigate project, because it is a type of equipment that was barely there at the time the frigate project was approved. But otherwise, the frigate project is good. I believe that the bulk of the population and the committee are in favour of the additional project, Link-16, which is under consideration in the Committee. In addition, it is fully available to ask all the questions you might have about the frigates relating to the investment proposition, which are also under consideration in the Committee. The frigate project as a whole is going as expected. The happy thing is that on the repurchase side you have a period of time until 2007 to reach 50 pst. repurchase. We have already achieved this in 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e310	Thanks for the answer. As far as radars are concerned, it's true that this state council was not the one that ordered the radars to use that expression. It's been four years since we ordered them. At a later stage, the state council could have also gone into the project, evaluated it and possibly stopped it if she didn't think it was a good project. Although a State Council has not initially been responsible for the start-up, I believe that there is always full opportunity to enter into a project and evaluate it. Does not the Council of State feel that part of what I have now mentioned is out of control? Although the Council of State now said that she believes she has full control, I am not so sure. Doesn't the Council of State feel that it might have been timely to get a full statement to get the whole thing out here in the Grand Council, perhaps to bring some of this up in the Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e319	It is hardly a week since we had consulted on this very question in the committee, where also the representative Width could ask all the questions he had on the occasion of the matter. It is also obvious that this Council of States has full responsibility for the radar issue and for managing it continuously, as I have also done. As late as October, the FLO sent out a press release that they had solved all the problems associated with the radar. That was the deadline for evaluating the purchase. Then new problems have been discovered in retrospect. It was only after the defence in March found out that it was now concerned that the problems could be solved that we immediately both demanded a full review from the Defence Management and forwarded information to the Committee as a follow-up to the investment proposition. It was just one week later. The Committee was briefed in writing on this matter. We have had an oral hearing on a matter under consideration in the Committee. I have no problem answering all the questions that the committee had to have in addition to this matter, but I feel that it is natural to use the matter in the committee to do just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e327	There will be two follow-up questions – first Kjetil Bjørklund.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e330	For a long time, there has been a signal that the frigate project would be far more expensive than expected, last in the Class Battle this week, where a cost margin of between DKK 5 and 10 billion is assumed due to the additional costs of changing operational requirements and thus a different level of equipment. I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence: how will the Minister of Defence inform the Storting about the whole of the frigate project, not just about individual elements without clear cost frameworks, as we see from St. pp. No 50 for 2002-2003 and St. pp. No 53 for current treatment 2002-2003? The frigate case is one example and has a clear link with NATO's new road map, which was clarified in Praha last year. The cost of Norway related to the PCC process is completely unclear to Stortinget. When will the Stortinget be informed of what kind of economic and political consequences NATO's new Prague Capabilities Commitment will mean for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e337	The size of each harvest of the annual budget proposals shall be briefed on the main investment projects in the Defence. In addition to this, an investment proposition is presented in the spring, which also provides information on the major projects, and which gives the Committee the full opportunity to ask all the questions they may have related to individual projects, and I will also answer them. To start with, as far as Prague Capabilities Commitment is concerned, last year we also had big rounds on this, just after the meeting in Prague, where we agreed on the price tag for this commitment for the Norwegian defence to be in the range of 700-800-900 million. kr. We also showed that by shifting the project we could cover this within the 118-frame. So it's explained. As the concrete projects crystallize, they will of course be presented to the Stortinget, but we haven't come that far. As far as the frigates are concerned, I have just mentioned the Link-16 project, which is part of a networked defence strategy, and which was not a topic when the project was adopted. Therefore, an additional procedural proposition has been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e346	Gunnar Halvorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e349	I think the Council of State is dealing with most of the cases in line with what the majority of the Stortinges think, but I would like to elaborate on a few things in terms of repurchase. The council said it looks like a repurchase with respect to the frigates is going well, and that we get what was the target of 100 pst. repurchase. I don't know if it's possible to elaborate on what industries it's going to be a pleasure for? In addition, I'm interested in how it goes about repurchase in terms of the development contract in relation to F-35, or Joint Strike Fighter, which it's called in new Norwegian, where we're in 100 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e358	I would like to start by saying that repurchase is an important way for Norwegian industry to ensure that it is supplied with products that are otherwise competitive, also to important defence products in other countries. In the case of frigates it is provided that 100 pst is applied. repurchase, i.e. the purchase of the same number of Norwegian products as the sum for which we buy frigates. It is also a prerequisite in the contract that half of these repurchase contracts should be in place in 2007, i.e. in good time before the last contract is delivered. Status is at 50 pst. of the repurchase contracts are already in place, early 2003, i.e. four years before the time limit set in the contract, so here the supplier is far ahead. In the case of Joint Striker, a separate meeting will be held between the Defence Committee and signed on the status of Norwegian contracts in that project, but it is not therefore repurchase contracts – it is important to clarify – for repurchases do not apply specifically in that project.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e367	After this round, the President will remember that matters that are being dealt with by the big business committees and are going up in the Grand Duchy in the near future may not need to take time in the oral questioning process. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e372	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. So far this year, 790 people are standing without a job because of bankruptcies and permits in the fishing industry only in Finnmark. Both SND and private banks are very reluctant to finance the start-up of new operations after bankruptcy in the situation in which parts of the fishing industry are involved. There are often corner stone companies in vulnerable communities that are affected, communities where alternative jobs are very poor. Moving is often the only option for those affected. My question to the Minister for Fisheries is whether he wants to do something to ensure that continued operations can be maintained in this type of vulnerable communities that we are talking about, and avoid, for example: SND helps to sell production equipment out of the country when local alternatives are in fact available, as we have seen examples of in Hasvik in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e381	It is probably a correct description to say that Norwegian fishing industry is now facing challenges that have long been, long since it has faced. There are several aspects that are consistent: one is the world market and the fact that Norwegian fish are now part of a global market trade on the raw material side as well. The second is that there has been a fall in prices that has caused dramatic effects on fishermen in recent months, by the fact that the price of cod has fallen by 30 pst. in the course of a few months. It has effects. There has also been a significant fall in prices in the pelagic sector, in addition to the problems encountered in the farming industry. Moreover, low quotas in relation to capacity both in fleets and in industry have the effect of making it difficult to achieve profitability because it is not possible to operate full-time in the fishing industry. In this respect, we have tried to implement a number of measures, and there are also proposals for action in the United Kingdom in relation to the structure of the coastal fleet. We are now out to consult a proposal for a strong tightening of the conditions of supply associated with trawls, so that those with such delivery obligations are to deliver to the processing industry in the regions and to the enterprises to which they have an obligation. In addition, we've had meetings with SND. In the first few days, we will have meetings with all the banks most involved in the Norwegian fishing industry, in order to clarify how the situation is real, both in terms of liquidity and profitability. But I remember that unilaterally improving liquidity does not repair anything compared to what is the basic problem in the industry, namely profitability. We must make certain structural changes. As far as SND and the banks involved are concerned, they are set to assist, as far as we have gained experience, the part of the industry that has a profitability and an opportunity to survive, so that they get through this downturn. The industry and financial institutions are well aware that the fishing industry has its ups and downs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e394	I thank you for your answer. The situation is that this is one of our most important industries, and one of the industries that have the highest potential for growth in the future. Then we must not allow short-sightedness and what we get faith is a temporary situation, decide what the structure of this industry will be like in the future, and in the worst case help to ensure that what should initially be viable communities is affected by closure due to the disappearance of corner stone farms. This is precisely why it is necessary to be offensive, in order to be able to take advantage of the advantage of the coastal fishing fleet and the proximity of fishing resources to these communities in Finnmark, inter alia. in the long term. Therefore, this is more than a matter of structure on fleets and delivery obligations. It's also a question of what kind of land-based industry we're going to have and where this industry is going to be located. It is therefore essential that initiatives be taken against SND to ensure that enterprises are financed and that an up-to-date industry is provided when resources are under control again.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e403	It is important that we deal with the short-term problems and the short-term solutions, but that they are at the same time part of a long-term change in the structure of the industry in order to make it more profitable and more robust in relation to the ups and downs that it is natural for an industry reaping a renewable resource to face. In this context, initiatives have already been taken in relation to the SND and the banks involved to clarify the situation, perhaps primarily for the fleet. But then it is so that constructive input has been made. Last week it was the so-called Nordnorsk Initiative in Båtsfjord that made concrete proposals. The County Council has made its eleven points. I had a meeting with Finnmark County Municipality yesterday, a very constructive meeting, with a view to seeing if there could be any more concrete solutions in connection with a meeting that the Finnish County has invited politicians, financial institutions and others to 11 June here in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e411	There will be three follow-up questions – first Bendiks H. Arnesen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e414	According to SpareBank 1 Nord-Norges cyclical survey survey survey for 2003, estimates have been made to show that the fillet industry in Norway must have a price of SEK 52 per year. kilos of cod in order to make money on sale to the EU. China today can deliver cod fillets to Europe for less than DKK 40. A significant part of Norwegian cod is produced in the world, and it is claimed that this is happening in the same way as in Norway many years ago. So it's not just the conditions that the Council of State points to, that play in, but also the production requirements. Then my question is, why are there not the same production requirements for processors in the other countries that produce this file, especially when it is produced from Norwegian raw material?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e421	It is true that the fillet industry and the processing industry face enormous market and market access challenges. Here EU membership is part of the industry’s debate, but it is WTO legislation that can provide a framework with a level playing field for a large fishing industry in the long term. Secondly, it is true that a number of countries can process Norwegian fish cheaper than Norway. But I'm a little surprised when a social democrat asks that Norway now have to have the same framework conditions for the industry as China and other countries, because the labour costs are a significant factor that helps us to get processed abroad. And this Council of State and this government is not willing to listen to the Council to help reduce labour costs. However, we have taken an initiative towards workers and industry on moderate wage-fixing, as it will help to facilitate further processing in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e426	Åsa Elvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e429	The query takes a serious problem. I'm from a municipality that now has 11 pst. the problem of unemployment due to the crisis in the fishing industry and, with it, among the three municipalities in the Nordic countries, there is such a high unemployment rate. Værøy and Øksnes are the other two. So we see the same thing in Finnmark, with Gamvik, who stands out for 13.3 pst. This has almost only been the cause of the crisis in the fishing industry. I must say that I disagree with the Council of State when he says that accidental bankruptcy should lead to a long-term structural change in the Norwegian fillet industry. That is, of course, a good right-wing policy, but it is a bad policy for the coastal communities. The industry, which was previously opposed in winter to the State being involved in the so-called restructuring process, has now said that one is calling for the state on the track to contribute, among other things. liquidity arrangements. The councils here were a little vague about what he thinks about these new signals from the industry. I could be involved in a long-term migration strategy to exploit fresh raw material, but what do we do today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e438	I would like to reserve myself against the description of the so-called crisis in the fishing industry, that accidental bankruptcies should guide the structure. It's not accidental bankruptcy. The main reason for the bankruptcies we've seen is primarily lack of conversion and lack of earnings. The introduction of new technologies and a transformation would have made it possible to compete on the world market. The other important assumption that is not present when a company goes bankrupt is the raw material, and we have to realize that fleet and industry capacity far exceeds the resource that we can harvest, and that makes a number of companies stand still for large parts of the year. And as far as I can remember, the questioner was eager to allow me to take more cod in Lofoten in winter. This would have meant that even more businesses around the country had been silent for longer periods. Secondly, the level of costs is a contributing factor for what is characterised as accidental bankruptcies, and which I do not think is accidental.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e445	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e448	I think the Council of State has to figure out that we're saying that these are random bankruptcies that the Government is making as a long-term structuring, and that's not it. Finnmark bluffs without any kind of control over the conversion taking place. And the communities are bleeding. One of the requirements of the Båtsfjord action has been to clarify the role of the SND in the past. It's good that one is in contact with the SND, but one here needs an active signal from the Government about what role SND is actually going to play. The problem for a part of the facilities today is that SND is more perceived as a greedy creditor than a co-player in trying to help get over the difficult knee. This applies, for example: in Hasvik, where there are local stakeholders, where the willingness to continue and to save jobs is large locally, but where SND is perceived as a counterpart. The question is what kind of signal the government will give to the SND so that SND will actively help one get over the difficult knee and get a more planned transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e455	There are a number of measures that need to be taken and followed up in relation to the problems facing the industry. I have tried to point out some of them. It was pointed out that Finnmark is blaring. Now it's said that the picture is probably somewhat more nuanced. There are companies that are doing well and that have production all year round. So it's a boat – and. Three of the things that the county council has presented in its programme to the ministry, as well as the 15 points that the North Norwegian Initiative in Båtsfjord stretched up, went on the delivery conditions related to the trawls and to ensure that the raw material that is remains in the region. Here I have taken action, both to ensure that the companies are maintained, and in cases where a company will not buy, that the fish can be sold within the region. And we've stretched out sanctions for the first time. So here we do things. I carried out a periodicisation that would ensure raw material for the Finnland industry in the spring and winter, but was strongly criticized for it from different levels. Now we're working with the SND, and I'm recording that the SND shows compliance where it's based.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e464	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e467	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. It could have our temptations to follow up with industry, but what I have to ask about certainly also has consequences for the Norwegian fishing industry. A global study has just been published in the Nature magazine, which shows that 90 pst. of the large species of fish in the world are downfished. And we are listening to the NRK today that Norwegian fish exporters fear that this could create a poor reputation in the market also for Norwegian cod, and that it will go beyond Norwegian exports of cod. We depend on market confidence, we depend on consumer confidence, and we are vulnerable to this kind of information. It doesn't help to make a correct impression that we also set the quota on the Norwegian-Russian side higher than what the researchers recommend. One does not have to go so far as to say that the cod is faithful, but at least it is a reality that one does not follow the quota councils behind closed doors in the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission. What is the strategy of state councils to counter a bad reputation for Norwegian-Arctic cod in the international market?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e479	We must recognise that technological developments have enabled us, on the tool side and on the ship side, and in the case of electronic monitoring, to do irreparable damage to fishing resources. I can show that the coastal fleet has been reduced by 24 pst over the past 12 years. in the number of vessels. Nevertheless, the capture capacity has increased by 30 pst. It says something about the need for regulation and responsible management of resources, which Norway can point to in the international context. At the end of the 1980s/beginning of the 1990s, we made strict regulation of cod fishing, and it has produced results. Therefore, what is now described in some media must meet with facts. And the fact is, a cod is not a cod. We have to separate, for example. between the Baran Sea cod, the North Sea cod and the Baltic cod. That's why it's too unsound to point out that the cod as such is threatened. When the Norwegian-Arctic cod quotas for that year were set in the harvest, the data were added at the time that the brood stock would be 429000 tonnes per year. With a quota of 395 000 tonnes agreed between Norway and Russia, it was provided that the spawning stock in 2004 would increase to 535000 tonnes. This means that the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, ICES, has so far established a high level of goods of 500 000 tonnes, i.e. that we expect it to be above that. By comparison, ICES, which is the foremost in this field of research, has set the critical level for the gypsum stock of Norwegian-Arctic cod at 112000 tonnes, i.e. one quarter of the level that the population is expected to have next year. It is only when the researchers say that there is reason to blink with the red lamp. Therefore, those who have now claimed that the cod in the Barents Sea is under threat are mistaken. It is not that for this cod one needs to turn on red light, and there is no reason to advise people not to use Norwegian cod.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e488	I am completely able to distinguish between a cod and a cod. That is why I am talking about Norwegian-Arctic cod in my question. But is not the Council of State concerned that the international investigations carried out can have an impact on the market of what is our most important export article in relation to captive wild fish, namely the Norwegian-Arctic cod? Because that's what's real here. When we send a signal, which is quite right, that we also saw the quota in Norwegian-Arctic cod higher than what the researchers recommend, and to the extent that, as far as I understand, the Economic Council of the Directorate of Fisheries was higher than the Council of State in last year's negotiations in relation to what would be the most economically viable withdrawal of Norwegian-Arctic cod, I wonder what the contagion effect would be. Is not the Council of State concerned, as Norwegian fish exporters are, that we will end up with a bad reputation, which could have consequences for the market?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e495	Of course, the Minister for Fisheries is concerned about any statement of this kind. But my point is that we must help both from the big business and from the government to get the facts out, and the actual conditions are not in line with what is being done. To the extent that we as politicians or industry contribute to bringing this forward and debate on the wrong basis, there is reason for even more concern. That is why I think it is important that we both at large and the government are engaged in bringing the actual information to the square, as I feel that the representative contributes through such a question. I think it is important that we have a debate on the real numbers, but it is also important that we do not raise doubts about the way we handle this information. There is every reason to take seriously such concerns and accusations. That's also what the Committee on Exports for Fish, which is our leading agency for marketing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e502	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e505	I would also like to ask the Minister for Fisheries a question, and I would like to focus on the situation of fishermen. It is true that fishermen and fishermen are in a difficult time, with small quotas and low prices, which have led to a decline in the profitability of coastal fishermen and have had major economic problems. Coastal fishermen have often pledged houses and homes to get a boat, and to create a job or more and create activity in their local environment. Now many fear that both the workplaces and the home are going, and I think it is the worst thing that can hit people. What will the Council of State do to help these coastal fishermen through this difficult situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e512	We were concerned about some of these issues in the first question that was asked me. There is no doubt that the price drop that has occurred on both pelagic fish and white fish has had very adverse effects. The cod price fell by approx. 30 p.m., and this has caused many to have financial problems that they have to deal with. Then it is important that we carry through this descent, among other things. in the short term. I explained that we have had the first meetings with the SND, we will have the first days meeting with the major banks involved in the fisheries, and I will meet with those who were behind the Båtsfjord initiative later today, precisely with a view to revealing the need, which is also described by the Norwegian Fisheries Team. So we're in an active process in such a context. At the same time, however, we must take into account that we need to do some action, and therefore I very much hope that the representative, Mr Arnesen, who sits on the business committee, will help to get the structural quota system, the conditioning system and the operating system under consideration in the Stortinget, which the coastal fishing teams have asked for and are asking that the Stortinget give its support, because it will help to improve profitability. It's the lack of profitability that's unfortunate. It's not a result of this year's fall in prices and economic problems, but we see that over a long period, over the last 14 years, the recruitment of the coastal fleet has failed dramatically. As I said before in Stortinget, 14 years ago, one in three fishermen were under 30 years old, today is one in five under 30 years old. It tells us that the lack of profitability and the lack of renewal in the fleet means that the youth chooses the fishing profession. When we then know that this is Norway's second largest export industry, it is a great threat. But it's increasing the profitability of the fleet that's the long-term and most important contribution, and that's what the Arnesen representative can contribute to in June.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e519	The President invited us not to prejudge the handling of matters, and neither should I. I was now talking about the acute situation of an entire industry and too many communities. I hear what the Council of State says, that there are meetings and discussions going on about these things, and I think that to a large extent is positive. It is true that when there have been significant shifts in other establishments, both private and public, conversion means have been used to remedy the situation, and there have also been fluctuations in fisheries before. My question was: what will the Council of State propose in these meetings as measures to remedy this dramatic situation? It's okay to have meetings, but it might be good to have some concrete suggestions to put on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e526	So now we've come to May, and we've completed significant parts of winter and spring fishing. Now we're starting to see the consequences. Therefore, there is a phase of the collection of information together with the Norwegian Fisheries Team and other actors. We've made it quite clear to SND in our meetings – we're going to have new meetings the first few days with all of the big banks involved, and SND – that being in and out of the storm is important through a grace period, so that we can help make the best happen again. But we don't get away from the fact that there has to be another change, and that's why I'm afraid that the representative Arnesen is getting too eager to put patches on the wound, so that we don't have to see it. Therefore, I fervently ask – and I will not prejudge the course of events, President – that this House contribute to the strongest instrument to increase profitability and solve the financial problems by dealing with the structural message as we have proposed, and as the fishermen ask, saying: It is the best thing to do, even in the short term.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e531	We're going to the last main question in today's oral Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e534	One might expect me to ask the Minister for Fisheries, but I have to ask the Minister for Agriculture. In the Question Time on 7 May, the Minister of Agriculture stood in this Chamber and confirmed that there was full control of fertiliser imports into this country. We've tried to investigate it, and that's not the case. Fjordane Agricultural Product sends out fertiliser offers, and they have cheaper fertilisers to deliver to the Norwegian market than what Norsk Hydro has. We need data sheets on everything today – even paints, we need data sheets on. We should have had data sheets on fertilizers, but it doesn't exist. In Fjordane Agricultural Product they do not have data sheets. They import fertilisers from Riga. What does the Minister of Agriculture do to prevent Norway from becoming a garbage dump with regard to cow disease and scrapie, as we do today? We don't have data sheets on fertilisers, and the Minister of Agriculture can't stand in this room and say he has full control.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e541	The President will assume that the assumption that the Minister for Fisheries was expecting to be the addressee was – it seemed as if the Minister for Fisheries had strengthened himself mentally.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e545	The question asked by Bastesen refers to a question in the ordinary questionnaire for a time ago about meat meal in fertilizers that was admitted to Norway. I said in my answer where what is right, namely that the Agricultural Inspectorate is not aware that there is any illegal interference with this in legally introduced and traded fertilizers in Norway. What we don't know is to what extent there must be any illegally traded manure in Norway that contains meat-and-bone meal. Then you have the problem that there might be some trade by bringing fertilizers – I think it's in quite limited quantities in that case – across the borders. Our professionals say, as I said in the answer, that the scope of this must be considered so small that it does not represent any danger or threat of the kind that the representative here asks about.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e550	Can you understand that there is no harry business with this type of goods?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e553	I thank you for the answer, but I find it extremely strange, because the Fjordane Agricultural Product must have been authorised by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Agricultural Control. They import fertilisers from Riga. What kind of insurance do we have so that Riga doesn't get fertilizer and bone meal from the United Kingdom? No one, according to my mind. I must add that there are no rules in the regulations of the Ministry of Agriculture that mean that you cannot have bone meal in animal feed, dog food and cat food. There are no rules. So the Minister of Agriculture cannot have full control. What is done to verify that the manure from Riga in Latvia does not contain bone meal?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e560	Norwegian legislation applies in Norway, and we have supervisory authorities that are trying to comply with the law as best they can. In this case, it is the Agricultural Inspectorate who does. I have every reason to believe that agricultural supervision follows the rules we have here in Norway. Agricultural supervision assures us that what is legally imported into Norway does not represent a danger. In addition to that, I do not know the details of what the representative here has promised, but I promise that I will pursue this more closely to see if there is anything in the representative of Bastesen here that has not been known to the Ministry of Agriculture and Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e565	The time for the oral questioning procedure is running out. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e571	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Berit Brørby to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has been removed. Question 2, by Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Minister for Finance, has been withdrawn. Question 4, from the representative of Vidar Bjørnstad to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Health, who has been away. The question will be raised by the representative Sverre Myrli. Question 5, from the representative of Mr Bjørlo Lysbakken to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Health, who has gone away. Question 6, from the representative of Rolf Terje Klungland to the Minister for Oil and Energy, lapses when the Council of State has left. Question 7, from the representative of Mr Gunn Olsen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, who has been away. Question 11, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister for Social Affairs, has been withdrawn. Question 12, from the representative Morten Lund to the Minister for Food and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Industry and Trade, who has been removed. Question 13, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has been away. Question 14, from Mr Korsberg's representative to the Minister for Defence, will be raised by Mr Per-Willy Amundsen. Question 15, from the representative Hans Seierstad to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Defence on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has been removed. Question 16 from the representative Heidi Sørensen of the Minister for the Environment has been withdrawn. Question 17, from the representative of Rolf Terje Klungland to the Minister for the Environment, lapses when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e608	This question, from the representative Berit Brørby to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e611	I will ask a question to the Council of State Ludvigsen, who will answer on behalf of the Council of State Foss: ‘The Nordic Council of Ministers has committed former Prime Minister Poul Schlüter to support efforts to remove obstacles between the Nordic countries. One of these obstacles is the large difference in bank charges for foreign and domestic bank transfers. Will the Council of State address this question at the Nordic Finance Minister’s meeting on 11 June 2003?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e620	It could be tempting to answer yes and then sit down, but I will not do so. Sweden has, as you know, the presidency of the Nordic government cooperation in the current year. The reduction of border barriers between the Nordic countries is a main theme of the Swedish Presidency and a good follow-up of the Norwegian Presidency from last year. Among other things, it is done by following up the Nordic report entitled ‘The Rights of the Nordics’, the so-called Norrback report. This independent report was ordered by the co-operation ministers, and it addresses many of the obstacles encountered by the Nordics, whether they move, study, travel, work or are treated ill in one of the other Nordic countries. The report proposes inter alia: that the Nordic Council of Ministers shall ensure that cross-border payments are made not only in euro but also in the other Nordic currencies at the same price as domestic payments at the same time. The Swedish Presidency has, as pointed out, appointed former Danish Prime Minister Poul Schlüter as a special representative to put pressure on the implementation of the recommendations in the Norrback report. A meeting is planned between Poul Schlüter and the Nordic Finance Ministers in connection with the Nordic Minister of Finance meeting in Gothenburg on 11 June 2003. The charges for cross-border payments are among the cases that will be dealt with there. It is also important that individuals as well as small and medium-sized enterprises can make transfers of payments quickly, safely and at the same cost domestically as abroad. It is therefore the Government’s wish to facilitate increased competition in the banking market. This must not, however, lead to a weaker competitive situation for Norwegian banks vis-à-vis foreign banks. The solutions to these questions therefore need to be returned by the Minister of Finance after the Minister of Finance meeting in Stockholm on 11 June. I guess I saw Gothenburg a little earlier, but it's Stockholm. Big cities abroad are not that good.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e631	Especially when the rest of the world is so far away.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e634	I don't remember mentioning any of the cities, but that might be my problem. I would like to follow up by saying that it is good that the matter is now being raised at the meeting of the finance ministers on 11 June. In fact, there is a need to address, among other things. this element in the case of cross-border barriers between Nordic countries, for the fees on transfers of funds, is perceived by everyone as being extremely unreasonable. For example, it costs 75 kroner to transfer 200 kroner from Norway to Finland, and a number of other examples with 80 pst may be cited. the charge for transfers of funds. In addition, money is spent from two to seven days on moving between countries. That in itself is a rarity in our technological world. When the Council of State says that the matter will be raised, there must be something more than a call to the banks that they look into the question. There has to be something more, and I'll challenge the Council of State: what does he think? What more could come than a general call?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e643	This with the cost of transfers was not least a topic between both the representatives of the Nordic Council and the Ministers of Cooperation last year, and a study was carried out by the co-operation ministers sending money to each other. There was little left when the exercise was done, because there was too much going on in fees. So we've been shown it quite clearly. It was also the background for the Nordic Council to adopt a decision and to give a recommendation, an order, to the Nordic Council of Ministers that the model set out in the so-called EU regulation on payment should be used. The EU member Finland, who is fully integrated into EMU, has implemented and implemented the provisions. Sweden has decided that it should not cost more than the EU Regulation has indicated without their integration. Denmark has not undertaken any such obligations. From the Norwegian and Icelandic sides, it is important that we thereby achieve a competitive situation that does not contribute to our banks being played out beyond the sideline competitively.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e650	It is reassuring that cooperation ministers can afford to carry out such costly experiments.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e653	There are several reasons why we should be members of the EU, including: And this too. But I just encourage the Council of States once again to ensure that the Nordic governments now have the goal of transferring funds between countries being the cheapest possible for customers. So there are three issues that this meeting on 11 June must address: that it should be cheaper for customers, that it should be better informed about how this is going on, and that time should be reduced. I hope that the Council of State will take along that call and challenge for this Council of Ministers meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e660	Of course, it has to be done. In its dealings with Norwegian banks, the Minister of Finance has been assured – it can be demonstrated – that key articles of the EU Regulation have already been implemented by Norwegian banks and that it has been agreed that a fee regime in Norway should not be practised to make us look worse than the other countries. As far as membership is concerned, I am not going to comment on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e677	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e683	I will ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘It has become known that violence alarms used by the police are not working. This provides false security for women and children exposed to violence and threatens them. What will the Council of State do to clean up this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e692	For the police, it is an important task to ensure that victims of violence and threats are provided with the necessary protection. An important offer in this context is mobile violence alarms, which, in conjunction with other measures, are intended to provide victims with increased security and freedom of movement, as well as to contribute to the prevention of violence and threats. The solution shall result in effective emergency communication between the vulnerable and the police in the event of an emergency. The Directorate of Police reports that the development of a nationwide mobile alarm service continues with a high priority. In its objective, the police focus on using a proven and non-operational concept for the operation, reception and treatment of violent alarms. This means that, in the future, the police will have a high-quality solution, which, in conjunction with other measures, will offer real security to victims. Today's technology places some restrictions on, for example: accurate positioning in any situation and stability of the GSM network. The Directorate of Police reports that as far as they are aware, today the best and most up-to-date available technology is being used in piloting the Oslo Police District and working on a national solution. New developments in this area can be expected in the future and the police will continue to assess new technological solutions. In pilot operations, cooperation with a dozen test users has been established. These have an important function in testing the solutions to functionality and operational safety so that defects and defects can be identified and rectified. Test of the system in Oslo is ongoing, and during the spring the district will report its experiences. Further functional tests of the system have been carried out in Rogaland and Trom's police districts. So far, there is no evidence that the solution put into use in pilot operations is not working as expected. Nor is there any indication that the solution that is intended to be implemented in all police districts will not work. It is planned to launch a nationwide range of mobile violence alerts by the end of 2003. Finally, it is important for me to stress that the outdoor alarm alone will not ensure full safety for those exposed to violence and threats. Other security measures, both under police and under threat, must therefore always be involved in an assessment where the threat is considered to be particularly serious. Furthermore, it is of great importance that the police carry out an ongoing assessment of the need for the escalation or reduction of protective measures in the context of the granting of a violence alarm.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e707	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. As the Council of State itself says, this is an emergency response together with other measures that need to be in place. Through media lookups, we have become aware that the trial project that Oslo Police Chamber today is testing in the field of violence alarms is actually not working. There are several women who are part of the project who can confirm it. Then the answer from the Council of State surprises me, because it was also the case that the Council of State said this should be in place during 2002. On a question from Anne Helen Rui a long time ago, the Council of State clearly pointed out that it would be effective during 2002 with a violent alarm and the possibility of changing personal numbers. I think the Council of State has a little too defensive approach to the strong stories that have emerged. We have to remember what this is. This is about women and the most extreme cases of female violence that we experience in our society. Then there is a security for these women to be able to be equipped with an alarm that works. So I want the Council of State to actually give a slightly more offensive answer to this important issue than what he was doing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e718	Yes, I have a very offensive relationship with this. It has, among other things, expressed in legislation dealing with fictional identity, which is working to get in place, witness protection, with which the Directorate of Police has been given the task of working, a restraining order, which has been adopted – with broad support in the Stortinget – and that we are actively using stationary alarms. It is also briefed that piloting in Oslo would take longer, because we have to be absolutely sure that we have an operational concept that works and that we have all the map data in place. When it comes to some of the papers, I don't know who they are, but I know, for example. that there is someone involved in the pilot project in Asker and Bærum. Asker and Bærum are not necessarily filed with map data in the Oslo Police District. In this case, the mobile phone is primarily a direct emergency communication that is used, and then it is assumed that the communication can be used. Of course, the information I have received has been obtained. Both I and my political leadership have an active relationship that this should be in place, because we are well aware of the stories. We also spend a lot of time just making sure that the context of these threatened lives is looked at, from a restraining order to a proper reception with the police, with the coordinator of family violence and victims of violence in general, and with the technology we are talking about here. So I don't recognize myself in the defensive term.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e727	The point is that we must have a secure system here, and I fully agree with the Council of State. But after what we're familiar with, there are other systems that actually worked. It is the political responsibility of the Council of State to ensure the quality assurance of the system currently under test before it is finally included in the ordinary system. It is not the responsibility of the Oslo police, but it is actually a political responsibility of the Council of State. If what's been in the media lately is not right, of course, it's also serious. But I interpret the Council of State's response to that, that what we've become acquainted with in the media does not lead to correctness, and that the trial project that the Oslo police have today in relation to violence alarms actually works and is what is to be undertaken.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e732	I have confirmed in my reply that two of the alarms have been assigned to pilot users such as: cooperates with Asker and Bærum police districts, and they have been informed of system constraints. This applies, inter alia, to: the installation of map data. So the information I have received, I have to stick to it and try to build on it. The representative and I are in complete agreement that it should be safe. As far as technology is concerned, the Directorate of Police has answered my question that as far as they know, today the best and most up-to-date available technology is being exploited. The reason for this is the police preliminary testing, communication with leading suppliers and experience from systems with violent alarms in Denmark and Sweden. In addition, the Directorate is in the process of completing a comprehensive tendering process for the choice of terminal and communication solutions. Then it's like Oslo Police District has got a responsibility within this. What I can assure the representative about is that I have spent quite a lot of time making sure that there is pressure on this, but I cannot have a pressure that leads to that we do not get proper solutions. We both agree on that. We also agree that it is a challenge to get this in place. I'm going to follow up on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e744	This question, from Vidar Bjørnstad to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Health. The question will be raised by the representative Sverre Myrli.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e747	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice, on behalf of the Minister of Health, the following questions: «In connection with the national meeting of the Christian People's Party, doubts were again raised about the construction project New Aarhus in Rome on 12 May. [[Akershus University Hospital]] Can the Council of State now promise that the construction of New Aarhus will soon take place?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e756	Sverre Myrli, on behalf of the representative Bjørnstad, refers to a newspaper essay and, on the basis of this claim, promotes doubts about the construction project Nye Ahus. Let me start by saying that there is no doubt that the population should be guaranteed a good and sound hospital service. But it is also true that previous plans for the expansion of New Aarhus have had an excessive and unrealistic cost level. The situation for New Aarhus is that a review of the plans for the new hospital is now being carried out. This work was initiated by the Government last autumn, among others. in view of the very high level of costs involved in the project. The size was briefed on this in the 2003 state budget proposal. The previous cost framework for development – before the project was started to be reviewed – was a total of DKK 9.7 billion. In the revised national budget, the Government has provided, as foreseen, information on the results of the project review. This shows that the review has made possible significant cost reductions in comparison with the appearance of the project last year. And constructive work is being done on measures that can help improve future operations and operating economies in the new hospital. This work is still ongoing, and the Health East Board, which is the hospital owner, will deal with the issue of New Aarhus’s revised pre-project in June of this year. There are also plans for significant investments in health businesses, including Health East. It is therefore absolutely necessary to carry out sufficient preparatory and realistic assessments before major projects such as New Aarhus are launched. Analysis and evaluation of this development are still needed. The implementation of the project must be assessed both in isolation and in the context of what will be feasible within the overall financial framework for the specialist health service in the coming years. At the same time, there is reason to stress that New Aarhus is a project on which there is a long-standing planning work, and where there is a clear need for building renewal. That's also why it works so well and so thoroughly with the continuation and processing of plans for this. The project is highly priority and, as provided in the past, the Minister of Health will come back to further assessments of these building plans in the draft government budget in the first harvest session.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e767	The review mentioned by the Council of State has now been completed. The costs are cut in line with the requirements of the department and are now down to NOK 7 billion. I'm asking the question, what's the problem? Everyone has said that a new hospital should be built, and everyone acknowledges the problems with the existing hospital. Dagfinn Højbräten said on 29 May last year in Stortinget that ‘appropriations for start-up will rise in the context of the 2003 budgetary procedure’. It didn't. In the revised national budget, the Government now states: before a decision can be taken on implementation. Is it so to understand that the Government believes that no new hospital should be built at all, that all solutions should now be kept open? Or can the Council of State say that it's just a matter of time before the spade is put into the ground, when all the formal things are settled?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e774	As the representative is probably very well known, the building mass at Akershus University Hospital is mainly from the 1960s. It is partially worn out and partly damaged by armament attacks to replace it. However, physical measures have been put in place in relation to buildings to ensure that these will continue to work well for a period to come. Then, on behalf of the Ministry of Health, the hospital owner, Health East, has started a review of the entire construction project to see what opportunities it is to cut costs and ensure that the results after completion are optimal in relation to the operating economy. The hospital owner, who is responsible for securing an offer in its region, bases his plans for the area on the construction of New Aarhus, so that this hospital will also have a central role in the region in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e781	I thank you for the Minister's reply. I hope he can help clean up any confusion about building a new hospital at all. I understand from the Government's response that the Government believes that a new hospital should be built – that's the government's view I am now looking for, that's what must be the theme in Stortinget. However, it is the wording – ‘before implementation can be taken into consideration’ – with which the Government is now operating, which concerns. So the question -- I repeat from instead -- is, what's the problem now? The costs are cut. In addition, developments in the last year have shown that there are now many vacant hands in the construction industry and the construction industry that should be gripping such large-scale construction projects. So once again, can the Council of State now promise that a new hospital will be built, and that it is just a matter of time before it happens? If not, what's the big problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e790	Let me, on behalf of the Health Minister, say that the hospital owner bases his plans on New Aarhus being built, so that the hospital will also have a central role in the region in the future. So — still with the Minister of Health’s words in my mouth — the revised national budget shows that a cost assessment has been carried out. But you have to be absolutely sure that this is also a relationship that you are well in for even after the project has been completed. So I concluded in the first answer I gave, that the project is given high priority. As provided in the past, the Minister of Health will come back to the further assessments of the construction plans in the draft government budget in the first harvest session. That's what underlies the government's work on this, and the recognition of the state of the current hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e799	This question, from the representative of Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e802	I would like to ask the following questions to the Council of State: ‘The board of Health Fonna has sent out a consultation proposal to redefine the maternity ward of Stord Hospital as ‘modified maternity ward’. It is claimed that the department is not a fully-fledged maternity ward, which the hospital staff disagree with. They fear the redefinition will mean that many birthers will be sent to Haugesund in the future. Does the Council of State consider that the offer of Stord hospital qualifies for the name of the maternity ward, and would this be a matter for consideration if such a decision were taken?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e811	Health West has launched a major effort to assess today’s organisation of the service provision. This has its background in the fact that, in order to support its ‘responsible’ responsibility, Health West has to assess which organisation of the service offer can best meet capacity, quality, availability and good use of resources. This is also in line with the Stortinget treatment of St.prp. No 59 for 2001-2002, requiring regional enterprises to implement conversion and efficiency measures in order to improve the impact of health resources. It is a specific challenge to assess the need for changes in the organisation of the supply of emergency food and food, based on a comprehensive assessment of quality requirements for the provision of services, availability and economy. Therefore, in December 2002, Health West presented an interim report proposing a possible future organisation of emergency services and food supply in the region. This report is part of the overall evaluation of the service provision in Health West. In line with this, the government of Health Fonna, as among others, has include the hospitals in Haugesund, Stord and Odda, evaluated the proposals for changes to the service provision, including the food supply at Stord hospital. Large hospitals have had problems recruiting a sufficient number of specialists to get the necessary preparedness if the feeding unit is to meet all the conditions for being a maternity ward, as the Stortinge expressed it in the treatment of our emergency message in 2001. Health West has informed me that no change is proposed in the actual food supply that is in Stord hospital. I would like to make it clear that, in the event of changes in the supply of food, regional health businesses have an obligation to set up their services within the professional requirements and guidelines set by the Stortinget. This includes, inter alia: that there is still to be a decentralised food supply and that the professional requirements for food establishments are to apply. Substantial changes in the service offer shall be submitted to the Ministry of Health, which is the regional business meeting. The Health Minister has assured me that any changes in the food supply will be relevant as a matter for the business meeting. Neither the board of Health Fonna nor the board of Health West has yet made a decision in relation to the organisation of the food supply at Stord hospital. With regard to the specific questions raised by the representative Bjørlo Lysbakken, the Minister of Health does not now wish to intervene in the ongoing process, but will come back to this in connection with the business meeting in Health West. I can assure the representative Bjørlo Lysbakken that the Minister for Health will continue to be particularly vigilant in relation to proposals that bring about significant changes in the service provision, or that appear to the population, so that these matters are dealt with at the business meeting, as follows from the Health Business Act Section 30. This includes provision of food.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e831	I choose to interpret what the Council of State now said, as a positive signal in the sense that there is a signal both to Health Fonna and Health West that this is a matter which is political in the sense that there are more than just corporate boards that have something to do with it, and that it can be the topic of the business meeting. I'm glad. At the same time, however, the Council of State does not answer the specific question of this with a modified maternity centre. It is an important question precisely because it has not been given that it is as the Council of State says in its answer, that no practical reorganisations have been proposed. It's a question of doubt, because there's a lot of uncertainty about what a modified maternity home really means in relation to a maternity ward. That part of the question I also think it is important to have it explained, and I would like to repeat my question in that field, whether or not the offer at Stord Hospital, in the opinion of the Council of State, qualifies for the name of the food department.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e836	The representative is, of course, familiar with the organisation of health services, with its own businesses and the role of the Council of State in such a context. In this context, I said in my reply on behalf of the Minister for Health: ‘Health West has informed me that no change is proposed in the actual food supply that is in Stord hospital.’ Furthermore, I would like to point out, as the representative is sure to know, that the emergency message defines food departments as follows: ‘At least 400-500 births per year, maternity and anaesthetic guards, midwife and operating room staff required and pediatricians associated with the maternity ward.’;» The size agreed to this in the treatment of the emergency message, St.meld. No 43 for 1999-2000, on emergency response, cf. Inner. S. No 300 for 2000-2001. Of course, this is the basis, and it is also the basis of what I quoted on behalf of the Minister for Health, that the Minister for Health will be aware of changes in the service provision that can be perceived as such for the population, and he will see it so that these matters are dealt with at the business meeting, as is the result of Section 30 of the Health Business Act. This includes provision of food.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e846	I thank you for your answer. I want to follow up a little bit of the same problem. In an interview with the newspaper Sunnhordland on 14 May, the Director of Health Fonna said the following about the debate that has arisen around the possible reorganisation of Stord Hospital, and that employees have made public statements on this process: ‘Everybody has their full right to participate in a social debate. On the other hand, I expect that they added to Health Fonna are loyal to the rental. By that I mean that there are rules for who will speak out and for what kind of forum a critic takes up." And on the other hand, ‘If you cannot stand by your company, it is best to change your workplace. I don't see this as a threat, but a general requirement for loyalty that prevails before business or otherwise." It's a funny statement for those of us who are used to seeing how professional trustees in the private business often express themselves about their companies. And I want to know if the Council of State agrees that employees of a state-owned company should not make public statements about this kind of process in companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e865	I do not know the statement, and I choose not to comment on statements that I have neither seen nor known. I also choose to be generally careful when it comes to a responsibility I do not have. So I'm content not to be a private-practice state council, but to be a state councillor on behalf of the state council, Højbräten, who in the answer I've received, determines that he will follow the food supply situation. He has underlined it and put it in my mouth, and I repeat it with great joy. I repeat that, so that it is certain that I can assure the representative Bjørlo Lysbakken that ‘the Minister of Health will continue to be particularly vigilant in relation to proposals that involve significant changes in the service provision, or that appear to the population, so that these matters are dealt with at the business meeting, as follows from the Health Business Act § 30. This includes also the provision of food”.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e883	This question lapses, as the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e890	This question, from the representative of Gunn Olsen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, who has been away. That means that the Minister of Justice in this Chamber appears to be a General Council of State. Gunn Olsen, please!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e897	Excuse me, President. I just had to digest the promise!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e902	I am pleased that it is precisely the Minister of Justice who will answer on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, because I think this is an area that the Minister of Justice knows very well. My question is the following: ‘In its New Year speech, the Prime Minister spoke warmly to secure the crisis centres in the country. The crisis centres have crossed the line, including: in Telemark, are concerned about its financial basis. The reason for this is that the municipalities, which are part of the economic base, withdraw from the crisis centres because of this. poor local economy. What will the Council of State do to secure crisis centres?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e913	I will then answer the question from the representative, Gunn Olsen, on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. Let me start by clarifying how the crisis response grant scheme works. The financial responsibility for the crisis centres is anchored in the municipalities. There are 50 crisis centres on a national basis receiving municipal grants. Local grants cover 50 pst. of the total budget of the crisis centres and the State makes corresponding contributions to the host municipality. In the context of the 2003 budget review, the Stortinget agreed that the grant should continue in the same way in 2003. The grant scheme for the crisis measures is an estimate. This means that if the municipalities grant more money to the crisis centres, it automatically follows more earmarked funds from the state. For this reason, the state allocation to crisis centres is often finalized only in the context of budgetary ageing. The Ministry has looked at the economy of each crisis centre for the last three years. For each year, as long as the Ministry has had the current grant scheme, the Ministry has seen the increase in both national and municipal appropriations and the gross increase in crisis centres was 6 pst. and 10 pst. in 2001 and 2002 respectively. The 2003 application procedure is currently not complete. Preliminary figures suggest a general increase in municipal subsidies also for 2003. The fact that the grant to crisis centres has increased in recent years means that municipalities take their responsibility for these centres very seriously. This does not mean that all crisis centres have a simple economic situation. On the contrary, I note that someone is struggling both with the economy and with giving a good enough offer. A study carried out on behalf of the Ministry of Children and the Family states that the appropriations allocated to the crisis centres need to be increased significantly if everyone is to offer a sufficiently high quality offer. The 2003 application procedure shows that the Telemark crisis centre received DKK 81 000 less in local grants in 2003 than in 2002. This results in a correspondingly lower level of State grants with the current financial instrument. The Ministry of Children and Family will look at the reasons for this and, if possible, through a dialogue with the local authority, to correct it. In the context of the examination of Document No: 8:118 for 2001–02, on the financing of crisis centres, the Minister for Children and Family Affairs said that women and children at risk of violence need to be provided with adequate assistance. This is still the case, and the Prime Minister also underlined this in his New Year's speech. Adequate support is required by a satisfactory financial instrument. There is a need to amend the current grant scheme, as the current designated grant scheme is not predictable for the crisis centres. And I would also like to remind you that in this context, the Stortinget joined the transition to the 2004 framework funding. In the recent family message, violence in close relationships has been mentioned in detail. Here, the Ministry will ensure that crisis centres are also focused in the next action plan against violence against women, as presented by the Government at the end of the current year. I too, as Minister of Justice, would like to sign this – on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs – because it is also part of my responsibility. Further work will also be undertaken by the government to assess how measures against women at risk of violence can be ensured, through law, regulation or other means.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e939	I thank the Minister of Justice for the answer. I think, as I said, that the Minister of Justice knows this area very well, and I think he really has a good attitude to what this is all about. However, I cannot be quite calm about the future of the crisis centres, based on the signals I have received from the crisis centres that I know well, where several municipalities have moved out, which the Council of State is obviously familiar with. It would be very nice if the Council of State could take an initiative towards the municipalities concerned. But if the money is now put into the framework, as I understand the Government intends to do, we know that the municipalities have quite a lot to spend on that money, and when this is not a legal task, I think there is a reason to be concerned. And I'm not so sure if this is a follow-up to what the Storting has said in relation to what has been included in the revised budget. That's where the government refers to what the Council of State has now referred to, that the economy in the crisis centres is not really as bad as you've got the impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e946	There are different things in this. With regard to the specific situation in Telemark, the Ministry – and the Minister for Children and Family through my mouth – has said that they want to address the specific issue. With regard to the principle of the situation of the crisis centres in the future, it was the government of Stoltenberg that in its time promoted the proposal for the inclusion of earmarked grants, and the majority of the Committee took note of this: ‘... the Ministry is working on changes to the current crisis centre financing scheme, inter alia: on the basis of the requirements of the Financial Regulation and the desire for a more predictable grant scheme, so that the earmarked grants are included in the revenue system of 2004 in accordance with previous decisions of the Stortinget.’;» But then it becomes an important point that you have to be responsible for what you do. That is why I said the following about the crisis centres and the action plan on violence in society: ‘The government will also assess in further work how measures against women at risk of violence can be ensured, through law, regulation or other means.’ That’s the signal I can now give on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e963	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. It would be nice if we could not have a crisis centre, but the Council of State knows that in the 20–25 years we have had crisis centres in Norway, violence and violence against, killing and mistreatment of women have not gone down, unfortunately. What we are seeing now is the presence of 2nd generation women applying for crisis centres, as well as some foreign women applying for crisis centres. That's why it's incredibly important that crisis centres have a good economy, so that we know that we have a crisis centre to address if we have problems. I can't see that these women have any other alternative than the crisis centres. I trust what the Council of State has now said, and I am very grateful that he will especially look at Telemark and the situation of the crisis centre there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e974	I will not repeat what I have said before, for the representative used the opportunity to reflect on a very serious challenge. I think that's good that you can do in the staging room. I share the description of the situation, and I share the view of the need for which she has made an assessment. I fully agree with realism that we need this good haven for people for many years to come. Then the government gets in the work it's going to do, doing exactly what I said, namely assessing how measures for violent women can be ensured by law, regulation or other means.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e984	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘The drudgery and extension of Ballstad port shall continue this year. The coastal works shall commence dredging and underwater detonation in the port. In this context, it is highly desirable that a larger area of the port be deepened to a minimum of 5 metres depth, which is estimated at approximately cost. Four million. kr. Postponing this work will increase costs and reduce the efficient use of the port area. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the remaining work is completed this year?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e993	The coastal works started to improve the Balstad port in 2002, in line with approved plans. The work of the Coastal Agency in 2003 planned to be carried out in Ballstad port is in line with the Coastal Agency's action programme and with the adopted plan for the action. This plan is also in line with the priorities of the municipality and with the priorities of the municipality of Nordland for investments in fishing ports at the time of the adoption of the plan. Within this year’s budget for fishing ports, the Coast Guard Agency has allocated funds to carry out work in the port of Ballstad in line with the agreed plan. In 2002, 4.5 million were used. SEK, and for the current year it is set at 11 million. kr to the plan. The municipality's wish to extend the measures in the port is well justified by opportunities and plans for new activities in the port area. These are the activities that have taken place since the decision to adopt the work of the Coastal Plant. The municipality's wish to extend the measure will amount to between 5 and 6 million, after the most recent calculations. kr, in addition to the frames already approved. The requests for extension of the site in Ballstad port are well justified by the changes in the local activity of the port area. But let me also stress that if we are to do such an expansion of the work in Ballstad port at that time, it will obviously have to lead to the postponement of other planned and priority actions in other ports. However, the coastal works have, as requested, among other things. from me a dialogue with the municipality of Vestvåg to clarify possible private, municipal and county contributions to the additional work. If this way it is possible to fund a minimum of 50 pst. of the requested additional work, the Coastal Plant will have a greater opportunity within the financial framework we have to expand its work in Ballstad port, although of course it will also have an impact on the progress of planned actions in other ports. But as the questioner says, it is about making maximum use of the capital and reducing the cost of the Coastal Works' presence in Ballstad port. Therefore, I am positive that we can find a solution in this matter before the Coast Guard works are completed in Ballstad port in December this year. However, I am dependent on a feedback from the municipality and the county. As soon as such feedback is available, I will see if it is possible to find a happy solution to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1010	I thank the Council of State for a positive response so far. We all see progress towards larger vessels, including within the coastal fishing fleet, and a certain concentration in fewer ports, leading to the need for more efficient ports that can take the new type of vessel, which has crystallized the new needs of Ballstad port. I think it is very positive that you can get completed projects that have been started, when the Coastal Works are present. This results in efficient use of both capital and labour. Is it in the Council's response that he will ensure a rapid procedure and decision so that this work can continue continuously until the completion of the port, as provided for by the Swedish Coast Guard Agency in its progress plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1021	I have a great deal of understanding for the representative Voie's impatience. There has been no lack of initiative on the part of the representative vis-à-vis the Council of State. This with a quick procedure and keeping a click on the case, I understood the need for this. Now we are dependent on getting feedback from the municipality and the county council. It has to be a good deal and an interaction if we're to solve this, because we don't have enough money in the budget. They're already disposed of. But I'm determined that we're going to get a solution. We have a limit, namely that the Coastal Plant will be completed in December 2003. The earlier we get a decision, the easier it is for the Coastal Plant to adapt its operations. So it's urgent to make a decision. But at the moment, the initiative lies in the municipality and county. As soon as I get that feedback, I'm not going to book it. I also do not expect the representative Voie to allow me to get involved with other activities. Ballstad port has high priority in my head.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1028	Now, there is probably limited influence on a single depositor over the time and activity of government councils. I thank you again for the goodwill and positive opinion of the Council of State. So I hope that the parties that the Council of State needs as contributors and cooperation actors will get on the road as soon as possible. I assume and look at a meeting after the positive opinion and the answer given by the Council of State, that a solution is found to ensure that the work is completed in 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1035	One should not underestimate the influence of the Storting and the Storing representatives on state councils. In addition, both the rapporteur and the Presidency have met with the port authorities in Ballstad, so that this is a broad wish, justified by an activity. Then I think it is important that the Coastal Agency should make maximum use of its resources. That is why I hope that we will get a split layer that will enable the port of Ballstad to be completed. But I stress that within the financial framework we have, and with the arrangements that have been made, it is not possible for us to take this promise alone. It will go out on other ports. However, I have invited the rapporteur to a split team, and I feel that the rapporteur and the Presidency – and the representative Voie – are very concerned about finding a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1044	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘It should be noted that for a long time there has been a strong wish from the northern states, the fisheries organisations and the other maritime industries to establish a separation zone for tankers that will go, in increasing numbers, to and from North Russia and through the Norwegian zone of the Barents Sea. How does the establishment of a separation zone go, and what will the Council of State do to make progress in this for fisheries so important?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1053	As we are all familiar with, there has been a significant increase in traffic by ships carrying so-called polluting cargo, especially along the coast of North Norway. In 2002, 3.3 million were transported. tonnes of oil with at the base of 200 ships. A significant increase in this traffic is expected in the coming years. Coastal safety and preparedness work is a priority in the Ministry of Fisheries. The establishment of required sailing managers is an action that needs to be seen in the context of other prevention measures. In this respect, I would like to mention and point out that the Government of the revised national budget this year has proposed the construction of a traffic centre for North Norway in Vardø. Furthermore, the Coast Guard Agency has now established a system for the automatic identification of ships, known as AIS. The development of reception stations will be completed through the budget allocation we made for the current year. These will operate from mid-2004 and will provide the Coastal Authority with ongoing information on ongoing oil transport. Overall, these measures will provide better control along the coast. The size now addresses the Government's proposals for extending the territorial border from 4 to 12 nautical miles. As a follow-up to this, it will be proposed to the Government to set up required masters in the territorial waters of maritime traffic presenting an environmental risk, initially on the Vardø-Nordkap route. This route is particularly vulnerable because it is in this waters that the ships sail closest to the country. The establishment will take place under a separate regulation under the second paragraph of Section 6 of the Port and Water Waters Act, cf. Article 22 of the Convention on the Law of the Sea. The regulation is now being consulted, with a deadline for consultation on 8 August 2003. The experience gained from the consultation round as well as the experience gained from the operation of the required sailing routes on the Vardø-Nordkapp route will be assessed before any proposed establishment of required sailing managers on other routes. Several areas are under assessment, and on the basis of the coastal traffic patterns, the routes Nordkapp–Røst and Stad–Fedje point out as being particularly relevant. Other measures will also be considered, such as required sailing managers outside 12 nautical miles. However, this requires the approval of the International Maritime Organisation (IMO). The required routes proposed on the Vardø-Nordkap route will consist of three traffic separation elements outside Mackaur, Nordkinn and Nordkap respectively. The required routes will be as close as practicable to the territorial limit of 12 nautical miles. It is assumed that ships bound for the required routes will navigate the shortest route/distance between the traffic separation elements. It will be indicated in charts as a recommended direction of navigation. So my answer to the question is positive, and we're keeping a pace that makes us have a consultation deadline in August, which will provide a basis for a further provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1072	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but it is possible that the question has been unexplained. What the fishing organisations and the counties are involved in is a separation zone outside the territorial boundary, i.e. 50 nautical miles from land. And that's what the question was to be about. How's it going with the work of getting a separation zone outside the territorial border and beyond the 50-mile limit, because we have to have a moment to figure out if we get machine damage? Is it so to understand that the Council of State can stand in this Chamber and confirm that he only has jurisdiction over what is going on within the territorial border, and that outside the territorial border there is another Council of State, the Minister of Defence, who has jurisdiction? How is it going with the government's work on getting a separation zone outside the territorial border?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1081	I think to be quite clear, I'm going to repeat what I said in my post regarding measures other than the heading of the territorial frontier of 12 nautical miles. There I said the following: ‘Other measures will also be considered, such as required navigation conductors outside 12 nautical miles. However, this requires the approval of the International Maritime Organisation (IMO).’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1089	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I have not received an answer to the question of how this work works. Is it so to understand that it is the Minister of Defence who has jurisdiction outside the 12-mile limit, outside the territorial waters, which we have dealt with in the Odel Sting, and which are approved? And I thank you for finally presenting this. It was at the initiative of the Coastal Party that there was an extended territorial border. But the Minister for Fisheries does not have jurisdiction outside the territorial border. It is the Minister of Defense who has – she is in the Chamber – and this is going on in the Government. There is a work going on, and I want to know how this work is going on. We do not lack towboat capacity, which is addressed in the next question, but we do not have decision-making capacity. We lack a decision from the Government on boats that go along the Norwegian coast – they expected the last 22 years, while it was over 200. What is being done by the Government for us to get the sailor and get the boats from land?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1096	The government has put in place a number of measures to ensure preparedness for this traffic, which we cannot prevent because it is a legitimate international traffic. It is also an international legislation. In the case of any zones outside the 12-mile zone, the Ministry of the Environment has taken an initiative in that context and we need an approval and an acceptance from the IMO. This is a work in progress and it is not possible to conclude until it is completed. Secondly, I think we've learned from the Prestige case that it's not necessarily the best solution to send every ship to sea and believe that it solves the problem. This is precisely what led to the problems that are now being faced in Spain and France. The government suggests that it is important to have a set of instruments, and that the solution is not one-sided to send these vessels far away, given that the eye does not see, is the best. We also want to have a responsible line in an international context. Therefore, IMO approval is a prerequisite for the establishment of zones for which it is requested.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1110	My question concerns something of the same thing that the previous representative raised in relation to coastal safety. I want to ask you the following questions: ‘Ship traffic to and from North-West Russia along the Norwegian coast is strongly increasing, in particular related to the transport of oil from Russia. There is uncertainty about the quality of the boats, and it appeared from NRK Focus 13 May that several potentially hazardous situations have been recorded. It is now important to put in place tug capacity in the northern regions as quickly as possible. What will the Government do with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1119	Oil transport outside of North Norway, as I also said in my previous reply, increased in 2002, and it was recorded at the base of 200 oil cargoes from North-West Russia past the Norwegian coast. The number will undoubtedly increase as expansionary plans for increased oil extraction in the northern regions increase. It is expected, inter alia, that a significant increase in oil extraction in North-West Russia. In St. Report. No 12 for 2001-2002, Clean and Rich Seas, the Government briefed that we would make a more detailed assessment of the towing boat capacity in North Norway. On behalf of the Ministry of Fisheries, the Directorate of the Coast has carried out a review of the matter, including a report sent to the Ministry of Fisheries on 29 April this year. That report proposes that a seagoing tugboat be rented to cover the eastern parts of Finnmark, that a vessel be leased to cover West Finland and North Troms until the Melkoya gas terminal with facilities is completed in 2006 and that an agreement be reached with the Coast Guard on the presence in the West Sea and Troms, and that emergency towing equipment be purchased. The report has been subject to a limited consultation in the spring of 2003, precisely because we are in a hurry, and the hearing bodies have mainly joined the assessments and proposals set out in the report. The Ministry of Fisheries is now working to further evaluate the report and will come back to the issue of towing capacity in the context of the 2004 State budget. The government prioritises the work related to maritime safety. The government has therefore put forward a proposal to set up a traffic centre in Vardø to monitor maritime traffic in North Norway, and we are about to establish and get up this automatic identification system AIS. Once the Storting has taken its final decisions regarding the extension of the territorial waters to 12 nautical miles, we will come back to the proposal to set up the required sailing officers, as I explained in the previous question. In sum, this means that the government has high pressure on these issues, and the towing boat capacity is part of it. It should also be added that today there is a certain towing boat capacity. You can't pretend there's no tug capacity in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1134	I would like to thank you for your answer. As far as I know, the Storting has decided to expand the territorial zone, so that's all right. I raised this question in the spontaneous Question Time last week – then to the Minister for the Environment. He pointed out that the Minister for Fisheries, who is standing here today, was the responsible Council of State, and that is why I am taking this up again today. The risk of accidents associated with an oil tanker, or in the future a nuclear-powered boat, is one of the greatest environmental threats facing people along the coast. There has been an explosive increase in this ship traffic in recent years, so this is a matter of urgency. When, in March of this year, the Storting treated the marine environment message to which the Council of State referred, it was a unanimous increase, including the government parties, who said that this was a matter that the Government had to come back to with both an assessment of and proposals for concrete measures in the revised national budget. So now the government parties go away from the promises you made in ours. My question is, why does the government go away from what they committed themselves to in March?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1147	I'm sorry if I'm wrong about Storting's consideration of the proposal on the territorial waters. I thought it was not finished in the Installation, just that it was finished in Odelstinget. But there's no big deal in this context. It is clear that these large vessels are a threat, and although we today from the Kirkenes, including Svalbard, and down to Ålesund have a tug capacity of 20 tugboats, and although the defense has more vessels, the capacity of these boats is not enough. The largest oil tanks are likely to require tugs capable of handling 100 – 150 tonnes, and it is probably only KV ‘Svalbard’, which is probably the largest of the marine vessels, whose capacity is approaching it. That is why we have felt the need to do a thorough job, and with the progress that it was possible to achieve, in order to properly assess both the needs and the capacity already in place. We have believed that it was not proper to present it to the Stortinget until the budget for the autumn. In this context, we also assess the largest fishing vessels, because a number of those vessels can have a towing capacity of 100 tonnes with conversion and adaptation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1154	The fact that we do not have tugboats that have the capacity to handle the largest vessels is one of the main challenges in this matter. There are large vessels along the Norwegian coast, and it will do so in summer and beyond the autumn. I understand that it is necessary to have investigations, assessments and processes, but it must be possible in the meantime to put in place some temporary measures. It is that while we are waiting for these investigations, this threat is already there. The question is: why has the government not proposed any temporary measures, at least to reduce this environmental threat?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1159	I explained both the progress and part of the measures being planned. It is then that there is actually a tugboat capacity. You can get the impression from the query that there is no tug capacity. I remember KV “Svalbard”, I remember that the North Cape class has three vessels, and that KV “Tromsø” and KV “Malene Østervold” are there. So there's a bunch of ropeboats in the area. Also the new research vessel «G.O. Sars’ has a significant tug capacity — when in the area. We will come back to the matter. But it is not going to come from the fact that both for previous governments and this is so that the increase in the number of vessels has come much faster and to a much greater extent than anyone had anticipated. That's why it's now necessary to do the grip, as the government does, and then we have to know that we're doing the right grips. It cannot be manufactured in such a way that the Government is passive to this, and the Coastal Directorate and my assessment are that we have a capacity that can be deployed in case an accident should occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1177	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1184	This question, from Morten Lund to the Minister for Food and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Food and Trade, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1187	The question is as follows: ‘Foreign acquisition of Hydro Seafood was dealt with and accepted by law of acquisition in 2000. Marine Harvest has shut down the corner stone company in Osen, and it is feared that 150 jobs may disappear in Fröya. Owners with local connections have not met to the same extent the set-aside and deflagration. What will the Council of State do to ensure that Nutreco's takeover promises, including: whether safer coastal workplaces are being fulfilled?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1196	Nutreco’s acquisition of Hydro Seafood was under assessment and treatment under the acquiree law in spring/summer 2000. Notification of the acquisition was sent to the Ministry of Industry and Trade on 18 April 2000, and the acquisition was authorised on 20 July 2000. The Ministry’s assessment showed that there was no basis for further testing. The evaluation focused on Nutreco’s plans to develop its national and global breeding activities based on the Hydro Seafood Organisation in Bergen. However, it was stated that with the conglomerate of companies under the Hydro Seafood umbrella, a certain rationalisation of the corporate structure had to be expected. As is known, the acquisition law was repealed on 1 July 2002. At the same time, the terms and conditions previously laid down by the Acquisition Act, the Industrial Concession Act and the Concession Act were repealed. The background to the acquisition law was that experience showed that the real need to control ownership changes is low, as there are rarely dramatic changes associated with ownership changes. Structural changes in business take place primarily as a result of changes in market conditions, etc., and independent of ownership and ownership changes. This is supported by the fact that in the period of operation of the acquisition law, from 1995 to the summer of 2002, it has been treated approximately. 2 200 acquisition notifications. No acquisition was refused and only 13 acquisitions were subject to further testing, of which eight were subject to approval. In addition, the total cost savings for industry were estimated at approx. Thirty million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1203	I thank you for your answer. I think it's nice that this is considered any industry or business. These are corner stone operations, and it's dramatic. It's the world's largest breeding company we're talking about, and the largest aquaculture processing company in Norway. It was not this that was promised by the company, who said it was safer with us as owners, with the Norwegian grouping. That's not what was said by the state council to calm us, and not by Hydro. But it was this as many feared. A large foreign owner thinks and trades differently, many said. Helge Gåsø, who is one of the big ones in aquaculture in this area, said this is just as stupid as if the oil resources had been sold in the 1970s. It looks like he's going to get it right. Scotland refused the full acquisition of Hydro Seafood properties, and Hydro had to bend. My question is: does the government have any contact with this important company, which has been allowed to dispose of so much of our coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1212	Now I am answering on behalf of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, but I can confirm that the Minister of Fisheries has very good contact with the farming industry in total. It is emphasised from the outset, regardless of whether it is ownership, that the industry is struggling with profitability, that even corner stone companies must have profitability to survive — and that it is the safest way to survive. We must take into account that aquaculture is one of our most international industries – it is young, it is dynamic, it is strongly exposed to global developments. At a time when this industry is characterised by great competition and low profitability and is struggling on the market, there is also a capacity imbalance. The government is committed to facilitating long-term profitability and value creation in business. In this there are, among other things: that one considers it natural that the industry itself should be responsible for structuring its own activities and that the most dangerous way is to secure it through profitable operations. It is not the case that the corner stone holdings in the towns and small towns are arranged differently from others. The government is concerned with profitability; it is the safest guarantee to maintain coastal workplaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1221	I hear what the council says. This is not just a corner stone business; it is a corner stone industry in Norway. Two years ago, we said that this will soon be as important to us as the oil – it will be more volume, it will be more processing, and it will be new species. It's not going to be like this by itself. And at least it won't be like that if a let crisis leads to a decline instead of a rise in what we want to create, because then we can't get up again. We're not getting to the bet and the growth that we'd thought, without the nation. And at least in a crisis situation it has to be expected. If you look at what's being done by the Government, there's less to research and development in this area. It's smaller for loans and grants. The Kronekure has been allowed to destroy. In this country, industry neutrality means that kiosk farming is to be equivalent to aquaculture. It's the government's policy. Is there now anything in the Government’s toolbox that can contribute to growth rather than to the deflagration of Marine Harvest and other parts of our aquaculture industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1232	I'm afraid there would have been few corner stone companies and corner stone industries along the coast if we had followed the representative's recommendation that politicians should ignore profitability as an important and essential factor in the survival of business. That's what's important. The description here, that there will be less investment in research and development, is not correct. I'm still holding on to the vision that this is a growth industry. But it must not prevent the industry from structuring and developing. It is not the case that any change in structure leads to lower manning in Norway. From the Government side, we lead, among other things, an economic policy that has reduced interest rates and reduced interest rates. It is a significant contribution to increasing the profitability of this industry. We are in the course of these days, hopefully, in the process of closing the minimum price. The lease has been terminated by the Government and the industry. There are significant contributions to increasing profitability and ensuring both industry and corner stone holdings. It is a better solution than the one recommended by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1244	This question, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1247	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘New Route 2 through, inter alia: Hedmark has been planned and discussed for over 10 years without it per year. there is a clear decision on the location of the line or on its financing date. Can the Council of States assist in making this extension a reality and not just an airlock?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1256	I think the Council of State should contribute to that, because the Council of State shares the opinion on the need for standard raising of Rv 2. This is also clearly stated in St.meld. No 46 for 1999-2000, National Transport Plan 2002-2011. However, planning such major projects usually takes longer than the propellants wish. It is not special for this plant, but in general. It is therefore also gratifying to say that it now seems to be loosening up for this important project. In April, the regulation plan for the first stage of development, Klöfta–Nybakk, was unanimously adopted in the municipality of Ullensaker, and next week the municipality of Nes decides on the line selection for the continuation. The case of line selection through the South Odal lies at the discretion of the Ministry of the Environment. Once the Ministry of the Environment has taken its decision, the formal planning of Kongswinger can also be completed, as the last part of the route Klöfta-Kongswinger. In order to increase the pace of implementation, there is local support for a partial toll financing scheme. This matter will be dealt with by Hedmark and Akershus county councils during the spring, and I expect the department to have the matter dealt with during the autumn. If the local treatment is planned, the State Council will continue to expect to be able to present the matter to the Storting within the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1265	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I interpret as a positive answer, both for Rv 2, for those who live along Rv 2, and not least for those who are also going to use Rv 2. But when you read the Glåmdalen newspaper of 14 May this year, you can see that it says, «Undecided about rv 2». In addition, it says: ‘With four votes in the north, four in the middle and three in the south of the municipality of Nes last night, the riksvej 2 in Nes is as open as before.’ It shows a little about what the individual local government and the chairmanship disagree on. And then there's this with money. In the same newspaper, Glamdalen, it says on 15 May: ‘Both Akershus and Hedmark counties are tired of waiting for new highway 2. As a result, during June, they provide guarantees totalling DKK 520 million.’» So I can refer to one newspaper article after another. I understand that the Council of State cannot answer any more detailed questions. I think the first answer was good. But does the Council of State not think that someone has to take the overall responsibility, so that one can soon cut through? I think this has been going on for 12-13 years, and we now need a good path, as the Council of State agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1288	One should not underestimate the understanding of the Minister for Fisheries of the road problem in Hedmark, especially since there is very good cooperation between the Right and the Left and also the Christian People's Party in this government. The communication is therefore good. It is said that one chooses to interpret the answer as positive. Yes, if you cannot interpret the answer as positive, I will question either my ability to communicate or the ability to receive the questioner. On the part of the Ministry of Transport and the Minister of Transport, you want to keep a pressure on this. When Environment Minister Børge Burnde decides on the way in South Odal during the summer, the entire weak corridor from Klöfta to Kongswinger is ready. But we must not overlook that local democracy has a certain influence on things like this, so I sincerely hope that here you will get to the process that I described in my first answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1295	I thank the Council of State for the answer again. We really get to hope that we get a unit here, and that new row 2 becomes a reality. I'm very excited about what the Minister for the Environment comes with. I would also like to make some comments about local democracy. Obviously, local democracy is very important, but sometimes things take too long. It is not just this road project that is waiting in Norway. There are many road projects waiting, and then it may be important to be quick to make your decisions so that you do not slow down in line. That's what I wanted to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1304	I take with me the views that came, and then I hope that this will get a happy solution, at a pace that satisfies all the parties. The Minister for Fisheries has already indicated his presence during the opening.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1315	This question, from the representative of Øyvind Korsberg to the Minister of Defence, will be raised by the representative of Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1318	I will ask the Minister for Defence the following questions: «In the treatment of St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001 on the conversion of defence in the period 2002-2005 it was decided that the payroll administration should be brought together and located to Harstad. Have the State Council considered moving the Defence Accounting Administration to Harstad to achieve, if possible, an operational co-location effect between the remuneration and accounting administration?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1327	Efficiency of accounting functions is an integral part of the Programme Golf delivery project 1. The unit of account is a central part of ensuring that the defence can meet the functional requirements of the country’s Financial Regulation. The unit of account must be established quickly in order for the defence to achieve this objective as early as possible. Following an internal defence process, with the participation of the employee organisations, the head of defence has therefore decided to co-operate the accounting work in one central unit added to Bergen. The background for the Bergen choice is access to vacant premises with sufficient information technology capacity in the Defence's own buildings at Sverresborg. In the context of delivery project 1, the Programme Golf assessed the possible effects of locating the accounting functions together with the payroll unit in Harstad. Sufficient gains were not found in such a solution, and therefore it was not recommended by the Defence. The decision on the location of the defence's accounting function is the responsibility of the defence chief, on the basis that he is responsible for carrying out the extensive conversion in the defence. The fact that a rapid unit of account is in place is a prerequisite for the conversion of defence and our accounting work. This decision has therefore not been taken in the department, but I have no objection to the decision taken by the head of defence. In order to achieve the objectives set by the Storting and to establish a more modern and flexible defence, it is essential that we be able to achieve significant rationalisation through conversion. In order to achieve this, activities shall be grouped in fewer locations and as far as possible within existing establishments. However, I would like to add that Harstad is an excellent place for many of the defense's localizations. That is why the Coastal Hunters' Command is there, so the Allied Training Centre is there, and therefore the payroll unit is there. Harstad is one of the locations in the country on which we place the greatest emphasis, and where we see potential for growth in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1342	I would like to thank the Minister for the answer and, of course, also share the views on Harstad's suitability for defence. When I ask this question to the Minister of Defence, it is because in this context Harstad also appears to be a very good alternative to the location of the Defence Accounting Administration, and it is not least because we, as the Minister of Defence, have absolutely free premises with proper facilities in Harstad. Similarly, we have the skills that are absolutely necessary here, and not least the synergy effect of co-location with the pay unit is also an important point. It is a fact that Harstad has lost a number of jobs in the Defense in recent years. Does the Minister of Defense not think, on the basis of these good arguments, that it should at least have been located in Harstad? As far as I understand, it has not been determined at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1351	In this context, a distinction must be made between the Ministry's investigations and those carried out in an underlying department by delegation. A part distinguishes the establishment of the Armed Forces pay administration from the new location of the accounting function. One is that the establishment of the Defence Accounting Unit in Bergen is done by creating a new unit, you don't put a unit down anywhere. Because this is very close to ‘linked’ to other projects in the Program Golf and to other projects for which the Defence Manager is responsible, the Defence Manager has been given authority to make the location selection for the new unit. It has been done in close consultation with the defence staff and with the organisations. In the case of Harstad and the establishment of the payroll administration, it was a decision that was made on the basis of the fact that existing payroll offices are laid down in Oslo, Hamar and Harstad. So a political choice was made to bring this together in Harstad. There are two different starting points for the way the decisions were taken, and therefore the Ministry of Defence has not wished to reach a different conclusion than the decision taken by the head of defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1358	I thank you again for the Minister of Defence's answer. It is a fact that the Defence Accounting Administration will provide a place between 60 and 70, perhaps up to 100, jobs. The payroll unit, which is currently located in Harstad, is much smaller, but this was treated politically in its time. Does the Minister of Defense not think, on this basis, that it is unusual for such a major localization issue, because it is actually when you look at the number of jobs that this is about, not to be tried at political level?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1365	My starting point is another one. My starting point is that when we stand up in the greatest transformation of time into Defence, it is very important to delegate decisions that naturally belong at a lower level. With regard to the new accounting function – and I repeat, it is new, because nothing has been done anywhere – it is important that the Defence Manager, who is responsible for both the Program Golf and part of the integrated conversion projects located there, also have the natural responsibility for a rapid location, where he and his employees find that they can realise the fastest and cheapest. That being said, there are very many other locations that are clearly the subject of political decision. When you leave 5,000 jobs, as the defense does, it will go against someone. There I would like to remind you that the units that have been put down in South Norway are far more than those that have been laid down in North Norway, precisely from the perspective that both North Norway and Harstad are important. That is why not only the payroll administration has been added to Harstad, but also the new Coast Guard Command and the increased effort on allied training.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1378	This question, from the representative Hans Seierstad to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Defence on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1381	‘It turns out that it is very difficult for the owner of the house to receive support for maintenance. Many owners have to cost all the seas. Upland counties have the most protective buildings in the country. Only in the Gudbrand valley there are between 400 and 500 peaceful houses. In the Republic of Cyprus, there were applications for 11 million. 2001 kr, while only 2.4 million were granted. kr. The bills for each owner of the house are going to be very large. What will the Council of State do to increase public participation in this important social responsibility?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1388	The government is committed to ensuring the best possible management and care of our saved buildings and structures. Today, private owners represent the daily management of the vast majority of cultural memories and environments. Private protection efforts have been and will continue to be the support pillar for the preservation of our cultural heritage. Therefore, in order to ensure the best possible management and care of our saved buildings and facilities, we depend on the private owners being guaranteed good framework conditions in order to take care of their properties. This is both to give the owners knowledge of the cultural history and the value of the buildings, and it is about maintenance methods and the materials to be chosen. But the economic framework conditions are also important. The government is concerned that the financial obligations associated with the responsibility of owning a peaceful house should not become an undue burden on private owners. The government was therefore set up in 2002 as a Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund. In addition, in 2002 and 2003, we increased the total amount of grants for the preservation of peaceful cultural memories and environments in the budget of the Riksantikvaren. On the part of the Government, this is an expression of a prioritisation of private owners and an understanding that the burden-sharing in some cases is considered unreasonable. The burden-sharing between the public and private sectors was also central to the mandate of the Public Cultural Memory Committee. The committee issued its investigation NOU 2002:1 «The future is shaping the past. Challenges in a new cultural memory policy", in December 2001. The government will present a major communication on cultural memory policy where the situation of the owner will also be an important topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1395	It's very good that the Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund is now in place, and as the Council of State says, the seed that is being established here is important to get private owners to deliver their share in relation to taking care of these national values. In St.meld. No 25, which says something about the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, says that there will be a big message about cultural memory policy. It will deal with cultural memories to be preserved and used to develop districts in relation to tourism, business and agriculture, which is precisely what the districts need in the transition period we are now in the middle of. My question is: Will there be any leads in this message that indicate that the Government will go further than giving greater returns to the Cultural Memory Fund? Is it possible to imagine that the Government will possibly look at tax changes, VAT exemptions, on that type of investment? And thirdly, what goes on in church buildings, which are also important cultural memories, and for which the municipality is responsible, will this be seen in conjunction with what is to be presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1404	I would like to begin by saying that I am pleased that the questioner also stresses the importance of these protected buildings in relation to both tourism and agriculture and other industries. Personally, I think that the Gudbrand valley and parts of Lom and Wågå and Bøverdalen are some of the most beautiful things we have, and all the glory to these people who have taken care of the buildings. I just underline it because as a former member of the Business Committee in the United Kingdom, I know how important these buildings are to the tourism industry and to tourism. There is also one reason why this area is receiving increased attention from the Government. I cannot, of course, promise what will be in the big message that comes, but I note that the questioner addresses a number of possibilities, both the yield of the Cultural Memory Fund, the amount of public support and other measures that can improve the situation of the owner. And that the situation of the owner will be an important topic in the message being presented, I can at least confirm that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1422	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1436	This question lapses, as the Council of State has left. That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-21.ana.ud790e1449	There is no record.
