ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e30	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e33	For a while, until the representative Bastesen got on the list of speakers, I had some fear that I was going to be the only male who dared to move me up on the platform in this debate. I think this is a debate we cannot allow women in the Chamber to monopolise. It hasn't exactly been a direct observational debate, except that we've seen that the Christian People's Party has for the first time embraced the consensual people – I guess I didn't think so – and that the Right has embraced this with a life course. I have registered that the Right Traditional is a party that has underlined the individual's freedom, but also responsibility for his own life and choice. I have also registered party speeches and electionals where a restriction on the growth and governance of the public sector has been called for. I wonder how this can be explained in relation to the fact that the Right now believes that the public should be in charge of a life course, where the State should teach us how to live together. What's next from a Christian People's Party-dominated Right, we can ask ourselves questions about. We've recorded that the Right has dropped most of its policy in the budgetary agreement we've been given, and here we get a new example of it. The chairman of the Committee, who is also the spokesperson of the Right in this matter, has his background from the health care system as a midwife. I guess after assisting thousands of childbirth, she has considerable knowledge in this area. I could imagine asking her as a professional assess how these life courses for newly-baked parents will work. I wonder how smart it is, and if you can really save some marriages by offering one-day courses to worn-out parents in breast-feeding. I am not so lucky that I have children myself, but I have experienced very many of my friends and regulars on a close team who have had children. My impression is that either they're super-happy, or they're worn out – or they're both. I guess most of them are both. The common thing for them is that there's not so much that needs to be done. It may be interesting to hear how to get a rich course in this field in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e42	The left is satisfied with the government's family message, which we believe is balanced and takes into account different forms of life and needs. In principle, there may be considerable differences between a Christian-democratic and a liberal party's view of family policy, but there is no major problem in this government. We have agreed and are united behind the family message. The family concept is broad and the focus on children is important and correct. We welcome the measures aimed at strengthening children’s position and rights, such as: the mediation mechanism for cohabiters with children. We are also satisfied with the gender perspective in the communication and the strong weight of the communication in the fight against family violence. I have therefore not given priority to making a long, comprehensive contribution to this debate, but we are joining the majority voting that exists, with the exception of one point. With regard to the Workers' Party and the proposal of the Centre for the Rights of Children in Partnership Relations, proposal No. 5, for which the Left wants to vote. Background Map: The left has always fought for the right of children to know their biological origin. We'll do that in the future as well. Children also have the right to have parents, and there is a child's right we think it is important to fence about. Therefore, it is not possible to punish children because adults have made choices that we in the majority do not always agree with. That is why we want to support the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e49	It's an extensive message, as I said earlier, that it's hard to cover in five minutes. That's why I want to point out a few more points. That applies to the birth grant scheme with emphasis on their fathers' rights. I am very happy that the message is discussing this. If a parent is to create a mandatory parent, this must be emphasised. I also think it is very important that both mother and father can be home with birth money to a much greater extent than now. I think that will strengthen society and not least a common sense of responsibility for the newborn child. Otherwise, there may be several measures aimed at young children’s parents that can contribute to more association, for example. reduced working time with partial pay compensation, entitlement to unpaid maternity leave until the child is three years old, extended leave or unpaid leave for young children’s parents, etc. Everyone has probably recorded the ongoing debate on divorce, and there has hardly been such a focus on family policy since we debated cash support. Although I disagree with the proposal put forward by the representative Eriksen, I agree that it is important to debate visions, objectives and actions that focus on good living. But I think the debate is more likely to focus on other things than the cost of a divorce. For example, a good local environment, the free schooling principle, where no one should stand outside the so-called good company, that all children are allowed to take part in leisure activities, a working life situation that ensures a relationship between children and adults, and last but not least, the fight against unemployment. The central party also believes that marriage is in a special position, but we cannot adopt a good and happy marriage. The big community's task is to facilitate all relationships, whether it's marriage, cohabitation or other ways of organizing their lives. In conclusion, a little bit on proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox I have a challenge for the Council of State, because I believe that the Central Party and the Christian People's Party have agreed that all children should have the right to know their mother and father. But if father is unknown and remains unknown, because assisted conception has occurred in countries with laws other than those of Norway, what then? What kind of legal security and rights does that child have? That challenge I will give the Council of State. So an explanation of vote. The party voting in favour of the vote, including II, although we are not co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e62	I think it's been a rich and great debate. But there was one post I noticed earlier today, and it was the representative of the Fallet's post. It's probably a clear illustration that the debate that I tried to pull up before the weekend, with a focus on the goal and the visions of what you want to contribute to, was quite hopeless in terms of making real arguments. The problem in a life conflict can often be a lack of communication, I have heard many times while working on this message. The parties put a lot more into what the other says, or one puts a lot less into what the other says, or one adds something quite different into it than what you're actually saying. I want to quote a little bit from the message, just to make it clear what the Government says in relation to the fact that people need to separate: ‘Adults have, and shall have, the freedom to choose a form of life.’ And on the other hand, ‘The government respects the fact that adults make different choices in life, and good growth does not have to stand and fall with family or parents’ choice of living.’ Further: ‘When couples choose to get divorced and couples together break up, the decision may in many cases be a good and correct one.’ All of this is derived from the family message, and it is the policy of the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Government. I wish we could have a debate where we meet where we actually are, instead of adding opinions to each other. And it brings me to the next party, which has also had some statements about the Christian People's Party and this with partners and marriage. There's someone who doesn't choose a form of life, and they're the kids. For the Christian People's Party and for the Government, there has been no threat to marriage to improve children's rights in cohabitation. I wish the Advance Party could also realize that, in terms of the child's right to have a mother and a father with common parental responsibility, and the child's ability to be part of a mediation arrangement, the Christian People's Party or the Government does not see it as a threat to marriage. That's why the statements that the Advance Party had in relation to the Christian People's Party become quite incredible. In addition, one representative from the Progress Party said that we are not saying that the course is not working, while the other representative talked about breast feeding, and that we did not think that we were getting any results again. I'm looking forward to the next debate we're going to have on this, once we've got these life courses going and we're starting to see the effect. Then it might be that I'm going to trick myself into saying, what did we say?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e95	First to the representative Woldseth, who before the pause attacked me for calling the Advance Party for naïve. But I didn't. What I did was actually to quote the representative Knudsen from the program ‘Position’ in the NRK Tuesday this week. And since he is the fractional leader of the Committee on the Advancement Party, of course, I take his statements seriously. He said it's incredibly naive to think that the life courses will work. What I said, on the other hand, was that I think the Progress Party is passive if they are not even willing to try to reverse the trend with more and more dissolved marriages. I don't believe, of course, that all life crimes can be prevented or prevented, but at least I'm willing to try. It's actually about dealing with real life. Just through my job as a midwife earlier in life, I have a long experience of such work. There are many good offers already, and the life courses are important. I think it's a good investment for better and lasting living. As a midwife, I arranged a prenatal course, maternity groups and my own groups for newly-baked parents in the health centre. These groups and this work were very valuable to the parents, and I'm sure it prevented a lot of problems right at this stage. I see the proposed life course as a supplement, yes, a valuable addition to the offers that already exist. There is, of course, no coercion – it should be an offer for those who think they need it. So offering a life course, unlike the representative Knudsen, I think is a very good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e108	First to the crisis centres, as the Council of State pointed out. It is true that the Municipal Committee sent the Government's proposals back in spring. That was precisely because the government made a very bad proposal. After the Government had been asked by the Stortinget to secure funding through better state grants, they put this into the framework grant to the municipalities, which means that it is entirely right for this government that the municipalities do not spend money on it. For the framework grant, they may be allowed to use for whatever they want, it shall not be decided by the Storting. I can guarantee the Council of State that there will be new proposals on this, because we have to deal with this. In fact, it says about life and death for women – and sometimes also for children. So the representative Bastesen, who had a visit to the biotechnology law that was directly wrong. It's just the Progress Party that has voted against the ultrasonic paragraphs. And it's not that pregnant women's ultrasonic capabilities are restricted, either in maternity care or in foetal diagnostics. But you've put a quality assurance in the last bit, just so it's clear. What really made me take the floor was this debate on the marriage or divorce accounts, which I a bit laughably registered came, and which is not there anymore. But I wonder if representatives of the Government really talk. In the municipal committee we now sit and discuss St.meld. (6) Cost key for social services in the income system of municipalities. There, the Government believes that signs and separations are less expensive and should now be weighted down, so that it should not mean so much for the income in the municipal sector. That's what I'm assuming maybe was some of the expenses that were now to be monitored, and that was so problematic for society. Then I will give the Christian People's Party and Dagrun Pedersen the honour that I believe that her view in this matter is significantly different from that of the Advancement Party and what they have demonstrated here today. But I think maybe the most important thing is how we treat each other, and what attitudes we have to each other when we talk about this. If you keep talking about something better than anything else, you send signals that are not good – not to those of us who have divorced us, and who stand for it, to say it like that, but perhaps to some of the kids you say you're concerned about. To the Progress Party, I guess I only have to say that I think that it seemed, in particular, of the contribution of the representative Woldseth today, that they were not concerned with children's rights at all, but only had a kind of moral approach to this, where everyone who does not exactly as the Progress Party would like, does not take care of their family, or does not live as one should. I think it's a strange position to have for a liberalist party, where it should be up to each and every one of you how you want to decorate your privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e121	I would make a careful suggestion that I believe that precisely in the case of child distribution matters, equality has been run right in the ditch. That's why I think it's really good that we have this discussion, because I think keeping this discussion alive about how we can achieve equality in terms of parents' ability to participate in the mission of their kids is very important. I think we've come a little way. That's like 12 pst. of the children who live with one of their parents, live with father today. And this has actually been no development. Over the past 15 years, there have been no more people living with their father. This means that we have not really succeeded in the policy we want. There is currently no overview of how many people live with shared care, although I know that the department is working to get it in place. One of the reasons for this is that when 90 pst. Women don't want to give father the main care of a divorce, it says something about society's view, that one likes to be a mother and being a woman. And it's actually one thing that neither women nor men – or children – have an interest in continuing to be like that. I want equality, and I want children to have two parents who take – and have – responsibility for the education of their children. Experience shows that the fathers who take the most responsibility for the kids after a divorce and who take the most responsibility for the kids during the mission are the fathers who have also been at home and have taken a good deal of maternity leave. That is encouraging, and it shows that politics is actually working. That's why I think the majority in this room are a little pudding and a little cowardly when they're not in our proposal to look at how they do it in Iceland. There they've put in place a system where one third of maternity leave goes to father, one third goes to mother, and one third is up to parents to choose what to do with. Then I am disappointed that the majority here in the Chamber have not realized that the economy actually plays a role for people, even when it comes to these difficult issues. I am particularly disappointed that the Progress Party does not agree with our proposal that transitional allowances should also be given to girls – young girls in particular – who are in a situation where it would be natural for them to choose shared care, but where it would be an economic disaster for them to give up the main care for the child, simply because they would lose the opportunity to get that money. I want to say that I'm very pleased with the part that goes on that the majority now ends up removing the concept of normal right of consensual access. I would like to challenge the Council of State at that very point and ask how she intends to follow up our joint comment on page 28.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e136	The President would point out that talking about big business representatives as pudding and cowardly is far from parliamentary practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e139	I want from SV's point of view to say a little more about the cash support. Cash support has led to a negative trend in equality between mothers and fathers of young children, the participation of young children’s parents in work and the use of kindergarten. Cash support has also led to more part-time for women, and after the introduction of cash support, kindergarten development has stopped. In the SV's view, this is not a desired development. We believe that the pediatric agreement, with a maximum price, which is now in Stortingen and which we are going to deal with in connection with this budget, gives parents greater freedom of choice. I also asked for the floor to reply to the representative, Mr Bastesen, but my colleague, Mr Andersen, has done so very well, so I am not going to come up with that. What I think the debate has been lacking are views on a course of life or not a course of life. To the representative of the Progress Party, I would like to say that I am also a midwife. I have received almost 2,000 children, and have seen an incredible number of breast-feeding women in maternity groups. Such groups are something that there is a great demand for. What we have not said quite clearly here today when it comes to life courses, everything we do in family policy, is that the starting point for a good life must be a safe economic framework. It's important for togetherness and parenting. That is what the Committee has said unanimously. It is estimated that there are quite a number of poor children in this country. And many of these experience social constraints as a result of the family economy. For these families, a strong economic boost is needed. The Committee also points out that unemployment leads to a poor economy for the families affected. This, in turn, can cause social problems, which affect children in particular. The Socialist Left Party will point out that consumption costs for beneficiaries are based on the standard budget of SIFO. These members will also point out that SIFO’s standard budget does not include expenditure on secondary education, specialised in leisure, holiday trips, school trips, etc. What must be the starting point for a good family policy in this country is, in fact, that we are such a rich country that it is unheard of that children live below the poverty line. We have a housing policy that needs to make it possible for families to live, and we need social budgets that enable those who need extra help to live, and we need a social security system that also ensures that children's needs are met. It's much, much more important than being a partner, married, or living in a partnership.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e157	It's always exciting when you throw yourself into a debate at the end, to see what reactions are aroused in the hall after you've had the word. It will be very exciting to look after the post I intend to keep now anyway. A small visit to SV: SV has also shown, through the setting here, how family friendly they are in all possible ways. According to what it says, they take care of lone dependants and all that package. I would like to ask a specific question: how does it relate to the claims and the points that have been made in the debate on the family communication here today, when you look at what the Socialist Left Party is doing in the Social Committee? Let's do an organization called AAN, which is now called Amathea. In fact, SV is in favour of removing all subsidies to that organisation – an incorporated organisation that has helped a lot in a phase of life where they really need help, just to meet the family situation that you will face later. It is a pleasure to see that Karin Andersen has already been up with his hand, so now the debate is well under way. I'm a grandpa. I have two small children at home, and in this connection I would like to make a few comments on the comments made by the majority of the committee who are taking a course in life. I must say I have great respect for the midwives in this room. They've done a great job. They've helped a lot of families. But are the midwives going to take on the job of holding a life course? I don't think so. It'll be interesting to hear the comment on that comment. It reads as follows: ‘The advantage of a life course is that it is a low-threshold offer and not a treatment offer.’ That's how far I get. But then it goes on to say: ‘It is for those who want to prevent and for those who want to invest in a sustainable and committed life.’ Honestly! Can I now make sure that I get a life course to signal that I want a commitment – a lasting commitment? I don't think so. In fact, I think I can do it without a life course. And when it comes to how we're going to receive the message that these life courses are going to mean, I'm very questionable about this proposal. I am not surprised that the left side of this room is in favour of it, because they want the state and the public to be in charge of us and help us from cradle to grave. Here you've even gone all the way down to becoming a birth assistant. But the right one amazes me. I do not think the representative Sonja Sjøli answered the question from the representative Knudsen of the Progress Party. What really is behind this proposal? Do you really think that you get the big effects of having a one - day life course with your newly-baked parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e178	I don't think the representative who now had the floor should be so afraid. It's not a coercion, this one right here. The progressing party was a little surprised that I talked so much about the breakup of my first post. But it should not amaze the Progress Party, because the Labour Party always has and will always talk about and for the weakest in society. In fact, unlike the Progress Party, not everyone can rely on being his own successful smith. Then someone else has to support that group. Therefore, my commitment to children who experience a broken life. The working party doesn't think it's a point to use speaking time to talk about those who work well, and that's all right. I think the Council of State has provided the family message that we've been dealing with, to actually improve the daily lives of more people. I think that has certainly been the intention of the Council of State. There is also a broad majority for most of the proposals. It surprises me that the Advancement Party, which in every context emphasizes man's free choice, is able to choose its way of living together, whether a chosen marriage or cohabitation, now it seems so strange that we are cohabiting marriage and cohabitation. This is to the seventh and last adult world. I think it should be with adults. The working party is most concerned with the rights of children to safety and love. Children do not choose their parents and of course do not ask for a marriage certificate. We can all agree with the Council of State that it is best for the children to know their biological father, but we who have lived for a while, we know that life is not always as simple as what we wish for. And we know that many children are born with unknown biological father. That is why the Central Party and the Labour Party have promoted the proposal that I referred to in my first post. So it's for the sake of the kids, it's the children's right that's the most important thing for us. Once again, I ask the Council of State to consider this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e193	A small clarification of the point of view of the Progress Party in this respect with the course activity: when you hear some posts, e.g. from the committee leader, one can get the impression that the Progress Party believes that the course of life is not working. This isn't right. What we're saying is that we don't believe in these policy-determined one-day public courses, which are to be given right after birth. It's these we're skeptical of, and it's in this area that I think it's naive to think that these will work. It's like there's a lot of churches, associations, etc. who is engaged in a comprehensive life course business, and I am absolutely sure that many of these courses are great and work perfectly well. But I think what's in common with them is that they're a little bit more extensive than a one-day nursing course. The chairperson of the Committee was also involved in this in her last post, where she says there are many offers already. This is a perfectly correct observation. Then I would actually have thought that a party that the right would say you don't have to do it so that the state should interfere with this, if there are many offers already. If something seems excellent, and there's an offer in the market, then why does the state have to interfere and tell us how this has to be done?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e202	I have to answer the representative Karin Andersen for the crisis centers, and repeat some of the story. In fact, the Stortinget – and perhaps, in particular, SV – did not contribute to predictability of the crisis centres, because in December 2002 Stortinget decided and confirmed that this Council of State would return with the inclusion of crisis centres in the municipal funding system of 2004. This Council of State followed up in relation to the municipal bill, where this proposal came from. At the same time, the government announced that it would consider a bill, a possible legalisation of this offer. Then it was decided in June in the municipal committee that this action should not be taken. If you had done that, or if I had been able to continue working on it, you would at least have had one case in the Stortinget per. the current date on which you could discuss whether you agreed or not. Instead, the majority confirmed, with SV’s votes, that today’s funding system should continue in 2004. Today, a new distribution key is proposed, still earmarked. We are facing a major challenge with regard to crisis centres. I had a meeting with a number of crisis centres two days ago, and it's perfectly clear that some people have major economic problems. But it is also true that many crisis centres do not have problems with the economy, they receive their grants and have their long-term agreements with the municipalities. It's not certain that a percentage between the state and the municipal level, whether it's 50-50 or 80-20, in itself will help those centers that actually need an increase. Because not everyone needs it either. So this should be pointed in a better way. Then I want to say that we do not stop – I do not stop – the work, because we need predictability. The Women's Violence Committee will take its place on December 4th this year. What we're looking at in particular is which management model to choose for the crisis centres. I think the time has come to look at the whole issue of violence in all the bodies we have where it is working on violence, against women, against children, and also look at the attacker and the treatment services we have. So this has to be followed up. And we're going to follow it up. But as I said, the Storting has not exactly contributed to predictability, when, in one year, three different proposals have been made. And what is a government council going to do? We're trying to follow up as best we can. But we're going to keep working. So to this with normal association, which the representative Heikki Holmås was concerned about. In that case, there has to be a change in the law. I'll follow this up in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e217	A Council of State that wants to ensure the activities of crisis centres and considers that the financial instrument as it stands today is not good enough can present a credible proposal to the Stortinget, which is such that it is certain that the State assumes greater co-responsibility and secures funding. SV did not agree with that proposal to include this in the framework grant for municipalities, and the reason for this is that the state will then be completely free of co-financing responsibility. Then it's the municipalities that have the whole responsibility alone, and we now know how the local economy is all around. They're sitting there looking for something they can put down. And when the government had not made it a prior law, but said that it was to be done afterwards, it is clear that the municipal committee could not take a chance on this in any way. The risk would then be that before the government had managed to get a bill through in Stortinget, several crisis centres had gone bankrupt and had been closed down. Long-term agreements with a municipality are just as long-term as the budgets are. If there is no money, even the emperor has lost his right. This is the case in the local economy, and it is also the responsibility of this government. So why SV has not supported Amathea, which is an advisory office with a life-vision paragraph. No, SV does not support it. SV believes that it is not the responsibility of the State to support such life-seeing offices. We want to support advisory offices that have a neutral view of life, because we believe that this is right. We believe that it is a mistake for the state to go in and support those who stand for a special way of life in this matter. It might be different, but we also know that there is a different view of the rights in the abortion law, who you ask for advice. We want to give support to those who are clear that this is a right that you have, and who are not trying, to say that, to put on people more problems than they already have. Several of the advisory institutions could have given such advice and are not receiving support. We believe that this kind of advice should be strengthened in many areas, but we are therefore quite clear that we do not want this through Amathea or other advisory bodies linked to special life views.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e228	I couldn't let some of these completely unheard-of claims get stuck in the air. Representative Andersen of SV talks about the total absence of the child in my post, the memory of moralism, and the only thing that was accepted was the vision of the Progress Party. First of all, I have to say that the representative Andersen in his last post is tending towards moralism to the greatest extent, by excluding advisory organisations that have a view of life. If it's not moralism to refuse them to provide advice, I don't know. I would advise the representative Andersen to read my post, if she did not at all hear what I said. Six times in the post, I talked about the best things for the child and the child's rights. Six times! Then it becomes quite obvious that the representative wants us to have completely left the children out. It is precisely for the sake of the children we have repeatedly, year after year, made proposals for automatic sharing of parental responsibility. We haven't been able to join any party once. Now we are on the right track with this joint proposal with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV that we should come back with a separate case of automatic shared parental responsibility. But we have not lost focus on the children, rather on the contrary. That's who we're focusing on. Then I also have to say something to the representative Fallet, who thinks it's so strange that the Progress Party won't be equalizing cohabitants and couples, when we claim that we put the children in focus. Now, what form of life each couple chooses, and their legal rights towards each other, have no meaning for the children. With regard to the legislative proposals under consideration, inter alia: to the tax law and the inheritance law, it is the spouse, possibly the cohabiter, who will benefit from them, and the fact that a cohabiter remains permanently resident does not have any consequences for the child as such. So it's not like we've forgotten the children, rather the opposite. That's why we're also trying to protect the child by claiming that marriage should still be chosen because it requires. Why do you have to be likened to cohabiters, when cohabitants have chosen to live a less committed life? Why should they have the same rights as anyone who makes a marriage?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e241	The representative, Andersen, is so concerned that the marriage should not be emphasized, that she calls me Pedersen, who was my name before I got married. I think we can at least recognize marriage so much that we can say that my name is Eriksen! It is important for me to stress that marriage is the most stable framework around the growth of children. We know that whether the parents are cohabitants or couples, experiencing a breakup is a heavy affair for children. Therefore, we dare to point out that something can occasionally be better than other things, especially in terms of stability and a frame around child's growth. In relation to this with a life course, I find it sad that some people have so little faith in this. The new scheme also includes voluntary organisations, communities, municipalities, health sisters, midwives, who will be allowed to participate in and develop how these courses should be. When it comes to breast feeding, I think it is quite serious that you say that a woman and/or a couple just after they have had a child is unable to receive knowledge, is unable to receive what would actually be what they are getting on such a course. One of the family protection offices in this town has told me that now the health sisters say that there is no longer weight and kilograms and such things you are concerned about at these meetings, but how we can get to live a good life. I have faith in this interest in getting a good life, and I have faith that even after they have a child, people are able to accept knowledge – breast feeding or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e252	Sonja Irene Sjøli has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e255	Yes, unlike the representative Knudsen, I know a lot about breast-feeding, I've been there a couple of times myself. It's not like we're going to get lazy -- like a try to make it here -- we're actually getting quite concentrated, concentrated on the most important thing, that's to take care of the newborn child. Nursing women are fully capable of coping with most, including accepting knowledge. It is reassuring to hear that the representative Nesvik does not need a life course. But it's actually a part of the real world that needs help and support in this period. As I said, it's not a coercion, it's an offer. I believe that a life course, together with several other offers, can help prevent. I've also answered that earlier. I think the health centre is a competence centre for family and children, and I think it's natural for the courses to be put there. There are many offers already. I think the life courses come as a supplement, where there are other disciplines than health sisters and midwives coming in, namely family counselors, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e264	With regard to the debate on crisis centres, I think it is an important debate, and I think it was sad that we did not have the opportunity to get predictable funding in place from 2004. I was prepared to make a proposal before the Women's Violence Committee gave its position, before the Municipal Committee decided to maintain today's funding in 2004. I'm stressing this a little bit, because I'm being blamed by the May Hansen representative for not following up the Storting decision. Funding today will be the same as in 2004. The funding is localised, the host municipality has to approve the budgets, the state receives it from the host municipality and gives it similar to that received locally by the crisis centres. With regard to the challenges facing crisis centres today in terms of standard and quality, I am not so sure that they are so easy to solve even if you have a different percentage distribution, namely 80-20. It is perhaps just an increase in the budget framework of those centres that really need it, which can ensure this kind of standard increase. This may require different approaches. My goal is to be able to get back to Stortinget as quickly as possible in 2004 with a comprehensive proposal related to the crisis centres, where we look both at a funding model and not least at a management model. This is important, and I hope that it will be possible to do this in a good way, without much more suggestions on how to do this. Perhaps we will have an overall debate as soon as possible in 2004. I also want to say a little about a life course. I think the Progress Party has a lot to do with these life courses. We have a life course today, that's right. We have different types. Some go over two days, some go in the evening, and some do it in slightly different ways. There are many organisations that are behind these courses, and there are also some public agencies that are doing it. There's a lot of demand for these courses. The courses are very good. I've been talking to people who run courses, and to parents who have gone there, and they say they're very useful. We're spending between 4 million today. and 5 million. kr on these rates of living by the State. It's a peculiarity attached to it. The demand is actually up to 16 million. We need a much more life course. When we ask the young people today -- we've done a survey that's referred to in the family message -- they say yes, we need help, maybe such a course will be useful to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e275	May Hansen has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e279	I know that I get a little warm when the Council of State says that it is SV's fault that we do not now have a predictable financing of the crisis centres. In fact, I believe that the crisis centres would not have been so much on the agenda for the last two years, if it had not been for all that SV has proposed, the questions SV has asked, and all the comments we have written in budgets. I also get a little worried when the Council of State says that some crisis centres have good financial conditions. Crisis centres are closed this year, they are bad buildings, they are not organized for children, and they are not organized for the disabled. There are poor pay terms for the employees, there are no decent pay terms, someone is about not paid to work there. Predictable funding has not been included in the framework grant without a legal obligation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e286	Karin Andersen has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e289	First, I apologize to the representative Eriksen for using the wrong name. So to the Advancement Party and the Children's Court: Yes, I feel that the Advancement Party says that the rights of children depend on the parents choosing the form of life that the Advancement Party likes. The point is not that children do not have the right to inherit their parents without this, but the point is that both parents should be financially secure, in order of business, if they are cohabitants and separate. It's the children this is about, and it's in the ratio it's children, that it's now regulated this way. I understand that people don't want to get married when they want to be cohabiters. I think we should respect that. It's grown-up people who can decide how to sail. But in the case of children, this is about securing these rights, and where the Progress Party fails. To put it this way, it's a political form of life. This must be a bit of a surprise at the Advance Party. So for advice for pregnant women: life-sight societies can make this seam. The return question must be: Does the Progress Party believe that Muslim advisory offices can do this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e300	Eirin Fallet has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e303	Just a brief clarification: Karin Andersen has just come to this with the children's right to inherit their parents. It cannot be left that children in cohabitation are less protected and have less rights than children in marriage. And then I have to say that now I've heard so much about breast feeding, that you would think we were in the Meteorological Institute. It's not like women get suckled when they have kids. It's actually a diagnosis.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e310	SV shall be in favour of putting crisis centres on the agenda many times in this room. I think I've been wise, and that's necessary. I think it's one of the most important measures we have in terms of women and children who have been subjected to violence. However, it is equally full that some crisis centres have new buildings, some crisis centres have long-term agreements with the communities, some crisis centres have wage conditions similar to those in the municipality in which they live, some crisis centres are organized for the disabled, some crisis centres have employed professionals, others operate more by voluntary action. It's very interesting to work with the crisis centres, talk to them, because they have a slightly different approach and would also like to be slightly different, among other things. with regard to the recruitment of professionals or to voluntary work. But many crisis centers are struggling, and many of them are struggling a lot. For some people predictability is bad, because the municipal administration of the municipality in which they live, or municipalities that have previously supported them, will stop the payment almost every year. However, it turns out that in the last few years overall, crisis centres have been growing quite well — this year, for example, 15pst. increase from last year. That doesn't mean that we don't have any crisis centers that have actually gotten it a little bit worse, and that work for that reason. I don't have an overview today, but we're going to agree when we're going to debate the crisis centres' new funding mechanism and a management model for the whole area of violence. My point is therefore: we need to have an overall debate as quickly as possible, in terms of both crisis centres and other measures related to violent women and children. I hope we'll get that soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e319	Karin S. Woldseth has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e322	Right to inheritance for cohabitants, increased social assistance, tax law, insurance contract law, occupational injury insurance law, change in criminal law, exemption from witness duty and indebtedness prosecution – none of these changes have anything to do with children’s best and children’s rights. No one! This is only an adaptation of cohabitants to married couples and to improve the rights of cohabitants. Something else that I must have been allowed to say: If the representative of the Socialist Left Party had taken the trouble to read the comments of the Committee, she would have seen that the members of the Committee from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left would ask the Government to ‘investigate and come back with proposals for amendment of the Children's Act so that parents who are married, cohabitants or parents who have not lived together are equal in child distribution matters’. If Andersen's representative then believes that we are not in favour of the child's right, regardless of the form of life, I do not understand what she means.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e331	Now I think we're approaching the end, so I just want a short summary. Today we get through that we get an offer of free cohabitation courses for everyone, we get increased availability of the existing life courses, we get strengthened family protection services, we get joint parental responsibility for cohabitants, we get mandatory mediation for cohabitants, we strengthen the mediation system itself, we strengthen parental guidance, we strengthen fathers' right to birth money, we follow up children growing up in families where violence occurs, we start research projects to find the reason why violence occurs in the family, we focus on the man who is overtaking, there are some changes in the relationship with the cohabitants, and we also have to look at a better adjustment of the cash support for the use of part-time kindergarten. In my view, we have now discussed a family policy with visions into the future. I'm happy to see the results of this. But we're going to follow closely if the visions we had are actually reached. If not, they must be adjusted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e345	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 753]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e361	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetition of the individual statements. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e370	: The two main elements of the Directive are the obligation to provide information before and/or in connection with the conclusion of distance contracts and the right of withdrawal. The amendments concern rules on requirements for information to be provided to the consumer before the contract is concluded, requirements for information and contractual terms to be provided to the consumer in writing, and the introduction of a right to withdraw from the contract. The background to the Directive is that developments in the financial field have been rapid and comprehensive in recent years. New products are still being developed, while people are increasingly making agreements on financial services per year. telephone or via the Internet. The term ‘financial services’ embraces and covers, inter alia: insurance and individual pension schemes, traditional banking services such as holding accounts, payment card and payment service contracts, as well as investment services, such as contracts relating to the purchase of fund parts and shares. The Government, in its proposal for the Storting, has underlined that the definition of financial services is not exhaustive, and is based on a dynamic understanding of the concept, so that it will capture new products that are being developed. The Committee has taken the view that the concept of financial services is an area which is constantly evolving and that, therefore, the Ministry should not draw up a legislative text delimiting the scope of new or existing services that should be governed by law, but leave it to practice. In the examination of the case, the Committee has also argued that the amendment should in no case weaken consumers’ rights in relation to current legislation. Furthermore, the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Right and Christian People's Party, considers that distance marketing of financial advice should be part of the legislative proposal. The majority refers to the Consumer Council note of 6 May 2003 to the Ministry of Children and Family, where it states that: «financial advice is an area where the need for protection and information from service providers is high»; [[...]] and that «The Consumer Council is of the opinion that this should fall within the scope of the Act». [[...]] Furthermore, the Committee has asked the Ministry, through the examination, to consider the new provisions introduced by the Law on the Right of Withdrawal, which, as a general rule, do not concern the distance selling of financial services. The Right of Withdrawal Act is complex and difficult to understand for consumers and traders. The Committee is therefore of the opinion that the Ministry of Implementation and Coordination should also consider different options, including a separate single law on distance selling, including financial services. Finally, I would like to point out that the members of the Committee of the Socialist Left and the Central Party point out that Norwegian law is directly applicable. currently does not comply with Article 8 of the Directive. We point out that the Financial Contracts Act provides for an excess of NOK 800 in cases where the consumer is not charged for short-term abuse, and we have therefore asked the Government to come back to the Grand Duchy with legislative proposals that take greater account of the interests of consumers, based on the content of the harmonisation of the Directive in this area. We also point to the fact that, by gross negligence, the requirement of the Financial Contracts Act for a proportion of NOK 8 000 can hardly be maintained by the implementation of this Directive. We are therefore asking the Government to come back to the Grand Duchy on this point, too, with legislative amendments that take greater account of the interests of consumers, based on the harmonisation of the directive in this area. I would like to address the proposals of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e402	The representative Magnar Lund Bergo has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5 [[Fotation, see page 754]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e417	We're going to vote on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e435	The President notes that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will also support II.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e452	The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e497	In the course of the debate, 11 proposals have been put forward: the proposals No 1-10, by Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposal No. 11, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up an indicative standard for the use of resources for each school. The norm must be based on a basic allocation and various variables such as school size, the number of pupils per school. age step, number of lessons, etc.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e521	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e528	Then the votes shall be 79 against and 14 for the proposal of the Socialist Left. The proposal is therefore not accepted. The proposals are then put to the vote. 1-10, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the introduction of a single-cost financing in primary and secondary education. The unit price shall be adjusted according to the size of the school and differentiated according to the individual needs of the pupils for adapted training and a basic amount per. the school shall also be assessed in such a manner.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to refer to the transfer of responsibility for school kissing for primary school students from the counties to the municipalities as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to make proposals for legislative and regulatory changes that will enable each school and individual school owner to organise the school's own operations and content within common national guidelines. A system of self-government in all schools shall be addressed.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case for increased parental influence in primary and secondary schools with necessary legislative proposals. The matter shall concern parental supervision in accordance with the Danish model adapted to other supervisory authorities as well as a system of parental representatives in the school’s operational boards.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals so that mandatory training in written lateral targets is deleted and verbal cross-target education is continued as an integral but minor part of Norwegian education.’; Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government requests notification of resource use and results for the use of resources for training in Sami and Finnish as well as training in mother tongues and bilingual education for students with a migrant background.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary changes to ensure that the national body for quality in education is responsible for the recognition and supervision of the entire education sector from primary to secondary education and to ensure that national guidelines for quality development work are drawn up in all educational institutions.’ [[NOCUTE]] Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The decision asks the Government in the announced announcement of a decision on the basis of the decision of the Quality Committee to deepen and clarify the terms of the Training Act in Section 8-2 «pedagogically and safely».» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a new notification of teacher training based on the extension to five years of compulsory education during the first three years of compulsory education as a qualification for 1-4th class education in primary school and where the system of pre-school education as a possible basis for 1-4th class education in primary school is terminated.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to facilitate a change in primary education from 10 to 9 years of age and to make the necessary proposals. The size assumes that current resources to primary school are maintained at transition from 10 to 9 years.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e599	Right, Christian People's Party and Left have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e630	During the debate, 19 proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by Eirin Fallet on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 2, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, on the proposals No. 3 and 4, by Eirin Fallet, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, 5 and 6, by Eirin Fallet, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 7, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left, on the proposals No. 8 and 9, by May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 10, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals No. 11-19, from May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposals Nos. 11-19, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with proposals to amend the marriage law in line with Swedish marriage law.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Grand Government for amendments to Chapter 2 of the Children’s Act, which provides for equal treatment between children born with cohabiting parents of different sexes and the same sex. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to make proposals for legislative changes that legally equate marriage and partnership.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the adoption aid is equivalent to the basic amount of 1G of the Social Security Fund.’; Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asked for a possible change in the rules of the Law on Migration for the Government to meet the needs of parents with shared care and return to the Storting in an appropriate form.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government requests the automatic provision of child protection to both parties in the event of a shared residence.’; Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the necessary rules so that tax class II applies to both parties with shared care.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government requests the extension of father’s maternity leave from 4 to 8 weeks.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the experience with the Icelandic model of maternity leave and to assess whether it is to be introduced into Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e717	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to bring an automatic joint custody case.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e732	The proposals are then put to the vote. 8 and 9, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to enable both parents to be assessed for housing support for families with poor finances.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate arrangements for parents who so wish to enter into consensual agreements prior to any breach and to have the agreement approved by the State.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e754	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and come back with proposals for a change to the Children’s Act so that non-resident, married or cohabited parents are treated equally in child distribution cases.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e769	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back with proposals for amendments to the Act on Children and Parents to ensure that children in whom biological father is unknown and who are born with dependants in partnership have the same legal rights as children who are born with dependants in marriage or cohabitation.’ Here, the Socialist Left Party and the Left have announced support.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e786	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to draw up a contingency plan aimed at increasing the adoption aid to 1G.’ Here the Socialist Left has warned that they support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e803	The proposals are then put to the vote. 3 and 4 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with a proposal to amend the marriage law so that when spouses agree to divorce and where none of the parties support children, no separation period shall apply.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to examine the possibilities for parents to make an agreement and to clarify their relationship with each other and with the child in relation to association and residence before the breakup is completed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e825	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to automatically adjust the price of children’s allowances annually in each budget proposal.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e840	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the government to follow the development of reported re-use of the cash support among weak groups’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e905	During the debate, Mr Lund Bergo has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left and the Central Party, and these proposals will be voted on first. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote legislative amendments concerning the provisions of the Financial Contracts Act relating to a proportion of NOK 800 in cases where the card user is not liable for card abuse. The legislative proposal must take greater account of the interests of consumers, based on the content of the harmonisation of the Directive in this field.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Stortinget with legislative amendments that are more in the interests of consumers, based on harmonisation of the Directive in this area, in respect of the requirement of the Financial Contracts Act for a proportion of NOK 8000 in case of gross negligence.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-2.ana.ud2061e945	There is no record of this being distributed to the representatives, but the President will deal with a matter under this point. It is a Roman number in setting S. No. 2 from the Rules of Procedure Committee on the distribution of the budget was sent to the wrong committee. [[2003-2004]] The decision was adopted at the Stortings meeting on 16 October 2003. The President will therefore propose a record case: St. prp. [[87]] No 1 Ministry of Justice and Police [[2003-2004]] VII. Disposal of civil protection facilities – redeployed and sent to the Defence Committee, Framework 8. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
