ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-08.ana.ud435e24	The representative Elsa Scarbøvik, who has been on leave, has once again taken up his seat. The called alternate of the Akershu County, Harald Espelund, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-08.ana.ud435e40	The representative of Morten Lund will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-08.ana.ud435e43	On behalf of Ola D. Glötvold, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and myself, I propose to introduce a tax deduction for single residents as part of an action plan to improve purchasing power and living conditions for this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-08.ana.ud435e48	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-08.ana.ud435e60	The Co-operation Board is presenting today its 2004 State Budget proposal. Our proposal is a budget for jobs, well-being and renewal. The budget shall contribute to the creation and safeguarding of jobs, including: through continuing low interest rates and a competitive price of crowns. The budget further develops key welfare mechanisms by strengthening the efforts of kindergartens, hospitals, psychiatry and community economies. The budget provides a basis for innovation and innovation, including: through increased commitment to education, research and innovation. In this way, we strengthen the basis for future value creation. When the Government presented the budget for the current year, the main objective was to improve competitiveness and further develop our welfare society. There was a need for a tight budget to help reduce the high level of Norwegian interest rates and weaken the krone price. Government parties agreed on a tight budget line last autumn, together with the Progress Party. The revision of the budget also took place within a framework which has contributed positively to economic policy. The government is therefore very pleased to have had an impact on its budgetary policy. It's also given results. Since the adoption of the State budget, interest rates have fallen from 7 p.m. up to 2.5 pst. The difference in interest rates between Norway and the countries around us is greatly reduced. Measured against the euro, the crown has weakened by 13 pst. since the peak in January of this year. It has helped to improve competitiveness. Of course, budgetary policy alone has not given rise to this positive development. The social partners shall have a substantial share of the credit for reducing wage growth through moderate wage settlement this year. In addition, economic trends in Norway and internationally, characterised by low growth, have also contributed to lower interest rates. The interaction of economic policies — between fiscal policy, monetary policy and income policy — has worked well. The competitiveness has improved. It is crucial for Norway that we maintain a competitive sector. Competitive enterprises are important. Had Norway not had an open economy and traded with other countries, we would be a poorer country. We need companies – employees, managers and owners – that live in international competition every day and that have to compete on price and quality. Such a competition is healthy, because it allows us to develop our competences further. That's what we're going to live on in the future, and that's what's the basis for our future well-being. Therefore, the Government is committed to strengthening the general framework conditions for the competitive economy. At the same time, we need to strengthen competition policy, so that competition between companies works for the benefit of customers. Budgetary policy must be geared towards giving us businesses and jobs that can have the right to life in an open, global knowledge-based economy. Therefore, the Government proposes a strong strengthening of research. In addition, the Government is working to increase the quality of the education system at all levels. At the same time, reducing taxes is an important objective of the Government. All these priorities take place within a global framework ensuring competitiveness. Financial policy and other economic policy for 2003 have provided a good basis for growth in the Norwegian economy. The reliefs in monetary policy have come faster and greater than we anticipated. The growth in product consumption has been high in the last few months. Strong wage growth and a continuing low level of interest rates indicate that private consumption will continue to increase. Oil investments will also grow. Together with better prospects for the export industry, these factors contribute to the growth of the Norwegian economy. We are now estimating the growth of the GDP of mainland Norway to 0.5 pst. this year and 2,5 pst. Next year. With this growth in Norway will be higher than in most countries around us. Also the international outlook now appears to be brighter. Positive signals, especially from the United States, give optimism, even though the picture is far from unique. In Asia, several countries now have relatively high growth rates. In the euro area, growth is still low, and the signals of a rapid envelope are unclear. The uncertainty is therefore still present. The labour market is weakened after a period of weak economic growth. The fall in employment began in the industries particularly exposed to international competition. Gradually, the decline also occurred in other parts of the economy and throughout the country. The availability increased significantly over the first six months. It is now about 4,5 pst. by the labour force when we correct for seasonal conditions. Compared to other countries, the Norwegian unemployment rate remains relatively low. In the Norwegian context, however, the labour market situation is worrying. The increase in the krone price over the last year came at the top of several years with extraordinary wage growth. The result was a sharp deterioration in the competitiveness of Norwegian companies and an increase in unemployment. Some have provided for simple and short-term measures to combat unemployment. A strong increase in public expenditure would make the situation much worse in the long term. Therefore, the government has mainly solved the underlying reasons for the unemployment. And the policy works: the interest rate has fallen, the crown has weakened, and the social partners have been conscious of their responsibilities. The labour force is our most important resource: we need everyone! That is why the fight against unemployment is the most important challenge we face. For the individual it hurts to lose the job. The social network is weakening, and labour income is disappearing. For society, high unemployment is the waste of human resources. However, the positive feature in the labour market is that there are still many job vacancies. Two out of three unemployed people find work in half a year. The government will continue its efforts to stimulate the unemployed for active job search in order to get them back to work as quickly as possible. Aetate shall focus on information, advice and closer follow-up. In the first instance, workers who are struggling to get a foothold in the labour market shall be offered short, job-oriented measures. Competitive offers will be offered to the long-term unemployed. Young people, immigrants and long-term recipients of social assistance will be priority groups here. Although we now see a growing optimism in business, it takes some time before the situation on the labour market also improves. We are therefore now assuming that unemployment will stabilize during the winter and then decrease slightly in 2004. The industry, in particular the enterprises exposed to international competition, has deteriorated in recent years. This is due to higher cost growth than competitors out there have, a high interest rate and a strong dollar. A strong deterioration in cost competitiveness, together with the international low economy, has led to a weak development in the export of traditional goods. Norwegian companies have lost market shares at home and abroad. Investment ambitions have decreased and helped to reduce overall demand growth. Thus, there was room and need for interest reductions and weaker crowns. The 2003 budget was designed to achieve this. This policy has produced results. The interest rate is reduced, the crown is weakened, and the prospects for the competitive part of business are significantly better than a year ago. However, the level of costs in Norway is high after Norwegian industry wages have increased significantly more than in our trading partners since 1998. A balanced development in the Norwegian economy, with a decline in unemployment, therefore requires that competitiveness considerations should guide the implementation of income statements in 2004 and beyond. Cooperation in income policy must continue. The government’s draft budget represents a structural oil-corrected deficit in 2004 of DKK 50.7 billion. It's $16.5 billion more than the expected real return of the Petroleum Fund. With the estimates we are now making this year, the additional consumption of oil money, in addition to 4 pst. rates of return are the same in 2003 and 2004. Greater use of oil money next year than in the Government's proposal would mean that we are going wrong in relation to the objective that the use of oil money over time should correspond to the expected real return of the fund. Moreover, a more expansive policy will lead to a risk of higher interest rates and stronger crowns. At the same time, the current economic situation indicates the need for an economic policy to stimulate production and employment in the mainland economy. In order to avoid reinvigorating the crown, the main incentives should continue to be provided through monetary policy. However, according to the Government’s assessment, it is not appropriate to adopt a fiscal policy that slows down the activity of the economy, so that the labour market situation becomes even more difficult. In line with this, the Government is presenting a draft budget that is approximately neutral to the economic activity in 2004. Government budget expenditure is growing by 2 pst. It is less than expected growth in GDP for mainland Norway. The scope for action in budgetary policy has been considerably lower than thought when the majority of the population joined the new guidelines for budgetary policy in spring 2001. The rule of action is often referred to as. The weak development of international financial markets and the strengthening of the exchange rate have helped to reduce the value of the Petroleum Fund. For this decade, we now assume that the real return on the Petroleum Fund will be 15 billion dollars less than estimated just over two years ago. At the same time, new information on, inter alia: lower tax receipts contributed to increasing the structural budget deficit. So the room for increasing the use of oil revenue in the future is reduced. This will have to have consequences for budgetary policy. For the next few years, there will be no room for new, cost-intensive efforts without the simultaneous implementation of measures that reduce government expenditure in other areas. Part of the explanation that the crown strengthened strongly last year may have been that many market players had exaggerated views about a major need for conversion in the Norwegian economy. This was based on a belief that significant phase-in of oil revenues would require strong growth in the public sector at the expense of competitive business. The government presented in the national budget last year estimates showing that this need for migration was far less than many thought. In addition, when we see that the room for increased use of oil money in the coming years has been reduced, there are no real economic reasons why competitiveness should be weakened by strengthening the price of oil. On the contrary, there will be a need to improve the competitiveness of business. As politicians today, we have a responsibility to the generations of tomorrow. In fiscal policy, this is reflected in the need to manage our common oil wealth so that there is something left for those who come after us. The rule of action is a clarification of responsibility between generations in the management of our common values. We're now approaching the top of what we're going to spend on oil money in the years to come. It is therefore even more important than before for the Norwegian economy to develop in a healthy way. Not all good objectives can be achieved when we are to have a comprehensive economic framework that at the same time respects Norway's competitiveness and the future pension challenges. There must be limits to public spending, because we want a viable private sector, and especially because we want competitive businesses. Also, increased taxes and taxes are not a dangerous path for a country that is already at the top of the international scene. Countries by country in Europe now need to cut public expenditure in order to have an economy that ensures value creation and well-being. The measures are tougher and harder than in Norway, but we cannot close our eyes to the need to renew and improve the welfare community in order to meet future challenges. The Norwegian political system, as we have today, gives us extra challenges. The illusion that the state bathed in money, as it is sometimes called, makes it a pressure to increase about every expense item. The Norwegian political debate is often marked by a competition to spend as much money as possible for good ends at all times. This competition creates the most illusions in people about what it is actually possible and desirable to do on the part of the state. We are in danger of creating a society where personal responsibility is confused and replaced by a demand that the state or someone else have to solve all problems. It's no great art to form the majority of popular spending increases. But more is required of those who want to take responsibility. For a government, it is extra challenging when the bulk of the population in a number of cases comes together to increase the government's expenditure without indicating where the money will be taken from. In such a situation, it cannot be expected that the Government will have room for all expenditure increases when good objectives are to be set against each other, as necessarily in a budget. A debate on these aspects of our democratic and parliamentary system is not only welcome but also necessary. The government prioritises several key policy areas in line with the Sem Declaration. I will briefly explain some of the most important. The kindergarten arrangement is followed up. Several kindergartens shall be established and the parental payment reduced. Private and municipal kindergartens shall be treated as equivalent in financial terms. There are 2.8 billion more allocated in this area. This also includes the tax exemption for the employer’s payment of babysitting facilities. The highest priority of the government is kindergarten space for all. Our goal is to establish new places for 12,000 children next year. The government’s proposal facilitates a total public funding of around 80 pst of the costs in the kindergarten sector. It provides the basis for reaching the maximum parental pay limit in line with the kindergarten agreement in Stortinget. The government strengthens the municipal economy significantly. It provides a good basis for the development of important welfare services locally. Our proposal represents a real growth in the total income of municipalities in 2004 of approximately NOK 3 3⁄4 billion. This is in line with the signals given by the Government in the municipal proposition before the summer. However, the distribution between earmarked and free revenues has shifted as a result of the decision of the Stortinge in our year. Earmarking is increasing as a result of the pediatric conciliation. The follow-up to the agreement results in a reduction of the free income by half a billion DKK and, instead, given as earmarked grants. In our government signaled that the free revenues would increase by NOK 2 1⁄4 billion. Now an increase of SEK 1.8 billion is being added, including the new resource-intensive user scheme. Health is a cornerstone of our welfare policy. There has been a strong increase in activity in hospitals in recent years, not least in the current year. In fact, the activity has never been higher. The waiting time has been significantly reduced. A real increase in hospital budget appropriations of DKK 1.2 billion is now being proposed compared to this year's ageing budget. The government suggests that hospital activity continues in 2004 at about the same high level as the current year estimate. Hospitals must continue to work on the conversion and efficiency of operations. We also propose specific investment grants for three major development projects: New Aarhus, Phase 2 of the new University Hospital in Trondheim and a new research building at the Radium Hospital. The government proposes a real increase in the appropriations for the implementation of the psychiatry escalation plan of 700 million. kr. This is the strongest increase since the plan was adopted in Stortinget. In order to ensure that the objectives are achieved, the Government proposes to extend the planning period by two years. Good competence and a high level of knowledge are essential if we are to compete internationally. Therefore, the Government is betting on a better school and on increased quality in higher education and research. The government proposes an increase in funding for the implementation of the Quality Reform of over DKK 0.5 billion. Thus, the size of the budget for the quality reform has been achieved and the reform has been fully financed. In 2004, public research funds are increasing by EUR 1.1 billion. This is in line with the annual growth need for public funds estimated in the research funding escalation plan, which was addressed in the spring of 2001. The government has also strengthened research by extending the TaxFUNN scheme. The scheme now provides business with an annual tax relief of SEK 1.5 billion. The government proposes to extend the loan scheme, which will allow municipalities to invest in school buildings, by NOK 2 billion. So we've come up with total investments of NOK 7 billion in total. Government rates on public transport. Priority will be given to the metropolitan areas. Increased appropriations and changes in the VAT system provide an overall strengthening of public transport of nearly DKK 1 billion next year. The Government proposes to facilitate the VAT system for passenger transport. By introducing 6 pst. VAT as from 1 March, the industry is also entitled to deduct VAT. Thus, the VAT burden on passenger transport is reduced by almost NOK 0.5 billion per person. year, primarily for train traffic and local routes by bus and rail. It provides the basis for lower fares and/or improved offers. The government continues to step up assistance by 630 million. kr. The appropriations for the assistance budget will be set at 0.94 p.m. until next year. of gross national income. The government will strengthen international efforts to combat poverty. Education and response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic are particularly priorities. In order to accommodate these and other bets, it has been necessary to reduce expenditure in some other areas. When the free card system was introduced in 1984, the idea was to cover those who had high health costs. 140000 people were given a free card at the time. Last year, nearly 900000 free cards were issued. This is an example of how a good welfare system that would help them with great needs has evolved to include more and more of us. There is reason to ask whether this is the right use of public funds, in a country where the vast majority of us can afford slightly higher proportions. Today, each of us receives a free card from the public interest when the excess of central health services reaches a ceiling of NOK 1350. This ceiling is now proposed by the Government to raise NOK 2 500. With such a limit, we assume that 600 000 people will still be allocated a free card. The social profile of government policy is more targeted at public welfare systems. That is why we have introduced this year a screening of large consumers of healthcare to limit their expenditure. This scheme is often referred to as a Roof 2 scheme. In addition, minimum pensioners are exempted from the abstinence of medicines on a blue prescription. The government's savings proposals in this area will make it possible to invest significantly in other important welfare areas, such as psychiatry and targeting measures in the fight against neo-poverty, which we unfortunately see developing in parts of our otherwise rich country. Central to the government's policy is to ensure the greatest possible work. Today, one out of five are in working age on social security. In order to provide more opportunities for participation in the labour market, the Government will continue the review of social security systems. The longer a person is out of work through sick leave, rehabilitation and rehabilitation, the less chance of a successful return to work. Today’s legislation means that many go for more than two years from the first notification to the beginning of reintroduction. The Government therefore proposes several changes to target the schemes and to contribute to a faster return to work for the individual through changes in the rehabilitation and rehabilitation system. Our proposal involves a reduction in expenditure of almost DKK 0.5 billion next year. The government is proposing changes to the permit scheme. Permits should be used mainly when the enterprises experience actual unexpected and temporary changes in the activity. Very few lay-off workers find new jobs during the period of leave. It is socio-economically unfortunate that parts of the labour force are locked in this way. In addition, there are a number of employees who experience repeated lay-offs, which means that over time the country finances significant parts of the employer's compensation of employees. The Government therefore proposes to extend the pay obligation period from three to thirty days. At the same time, the Government wants to make it easier for business to take on special time-limited tasks to facilitate the management of peaks and seasonal fluctuations. We are therefore proposing amendments to the rules on temporary employment. This means that there will be a general access to employing persons temporarily for up to 12 months in the same activity and that access will be granted to temporary employment for specific projects. The government will stress that this will also make it easier for jobseekers without job experience to get into the labour market. Let me also add, because of the attention that is generally around the matter, that the Government does not propose a reduction in the compensation rate in the sickness pay scheme. However, the growth of sick pay is worrying. The 2004 budget is based on an expected growth in sick leave during the social security period of 2.5 pst. for the current year and 1 pst. Next year. The aim of the IA is to reduce total sick leave by at least 20 pst. from 2nd quarter 2001 until the end of 2005. Instead of going down, we've gotten a growth of 11.5 pst. The agreement is now to be evaluated in the autumn. On the basis of the evaluation, the Government, in cooperation with the social partners, will discuss further work for an inclusive working life. So far, the government has reduced taxes and taxes by nearly 20 billion kroner. Facilitations have improved the business environment. It has provided a basis for economic growth. The 2004 budget proposal offers new reliefs of 500 million. kr. This must be seen in the context of the amendment to the NOCUS rules, which was adopted in the revised budget in spring. This implies that the level of taxation will be about the same in 2004 as it was in the 2003 budget. Work on reducing taxes and duties will continue. The government will follow up the configuration of the Skauge Committee, which has now been at the hearing, with its own monitoring message that will include proposals for improvements to the tax and tax system. The handling of the notification will provide a basis for the government’s work on the 2005 government budget. The government proposes a major and important change in the charging system when we now introduce a general VAT compensation for municipalities. The reform requires equal treatment of private and public service producers. Privates may henceforth more compete on a level playing field with municipalities in the event of municipal acquisitions. Cooperation between municipalities will also be stimulated in this way. This will provide a good basis for local elected representatives to make better use of the municipality’s money and thus ensure better welfare services for their citizens. The very biggest tax change in the budget is well known. Unfortunately, the differentiated employer’s fee must be converted from the new year onwards. The scheme is the most important and best district policy instrument we have. The system is simple and unbureaucratic, and the government has worked actively to keep it. However, ESA – the body of the EFTA countries to monitor the EEA Agreement – has clearly indicated that this mechanism cannot continue. Consequently, there is no legal basis for continuing the scheme from 1 January 2004. When we are now forced to make changes, the Government has focused on achieving the best possible solutions for business in the districts. We believe that we have come up with a good solution, which will largely affect the effects of the need to transform the present system. The Government proposes that the increased tax revenue be returned in full to the areas concerned. In order for the changes to take place gradually, and not overnight, the Government has applied to ESA for a transitional period of three years. In line with this, grants for industrial development in the areas concerned will increase over time. The ESA also considers the exemption from electricity taxation by industry to be State aid. This is a consequence of the fact that the previous government in the summer of 2001 accepted the new EU guidelines on environmental aid. The electricity charge must therefore be changed. Therefore, in order to reduce the risk of any demand from ESA for the recovery of aid, the Government proposes to abolish the levy for all industrial activities from 1 January 2004. At the same time, we propose that measures be put in place to mitigate the increase in electricity consumption and therefore, among other things, will be taken. strengthen the Energy Fund. The Government intends to introduce a new charging system that will charge part of the consumption of industrial activities from 1 July 2004. The aim of the new system will be to mitigate the increase in electricity consumption and to continue to stimulate the transition to alternative energy sources and waterborne heat. The government proposes to reduce the housing tax. As a step further in the direction of the Sem Declaration's objective to eliminate the tax advantage on owner-occupied dwellings, we propose to increase the deduction from 80 000 to 90 000 kroner for next year. The government's proposal implies that around 40,000 fewer owner-occupiers will have to pay this tax. The government has asked the government to change the alcohol tax, so that spirits-based intoxication can be increased. The government is following this up. The increased revenue from the conversion is used to reduce taxes on all other beverages. The government also proposes to increase the levy on smoking tobacco, so that the tax burden on cigarettes and smoking tobacco – often called rolling – is the same. The smoking stove currently has a fee of only 70 pst. the fee on cigarettes. We must recognise that there are no health reasons for this tax discrimination. If we look forward, perhaps the most important thing is government and big business is to deal with this ageing period, the setting by the Johnsen Commission – a pension reform. A number of countries have already implemented the necessary reforms in this area. Common to these is that they will stimulate individuals to stay longer in work and ensure a greater balance between payments and payments in the social security system. Reform in Norway should aim at the same. With current legislation, pension expenditure will increase from 8 pst. of GDP in 2000 to nearly 20 pst. GDP in 2050. Expenditure will increase much more in Norway than in most other Western countries. We therefore need to design a more individual-based and flexible pension system that rewards those who want to stay longer in work. Such a reform will obviously require tough roofing, difficult balances and political action. We politicians will be challenged to think in the long term and to come together on solutions that give the people the economic sustainability and the individual security of their own ages. As politicians today, we have an international responsibility and a commitment to future generations. This year’s national budget presents a National Agenda 21, a national sustainable development action plan. The government has a broad global perspective and addresses the key challenges of sustainable development. The plan focuses on selected areas nationally and internationally and on what governments, businesses and individuals can do. For budgetary policy, this means that we need to adjust current expenditure so that sufficient reserves are built up to meet future expenditure. We owe future generations that we keep order in our common house. The cooperative government's draft budget is a budget for jobs, well-being and renewal. On this basis, I invite Stortinget to cooperate on the 2004 State Budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-08.ana.ud435e203	After consulting the team leaders, the president will propose that a comment round be opened, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group, in accordance with Section 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure. The President will then propose to depart from Paragraph 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure, so that, after each intervention by the opposition parties, a comment is given by the Minister of Finance and then a final comment by the representative of the opposition party of up to 2 minutes each. Furthermore, it is proposed that a comment by the Minister of Finance should be opened up to 3 minutes at the end of the debate. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-08.ana.ud435e212	The Minister of Finance has today said to the media that he has slept well tonight. Those who must have woken up hoping for good news for the unemployed today have little to rejoice about. The submitted budget is a budget for increasing unemployment. The government is tracking an increase in AKU unemployment from 4,5 pst. to 4.7 pst. Next year. Every day we hear about municipalities that have to cut in school and care for the elderly. One of three municipalities, was said here a day, had to carry out such cuts. With the budget presented today, we will continue to experience that it needs to be cut in school and in the care of the elderly. The sitting government has set many records. There is a record of tax relief, but at the same time another record has been set: there is a total deficit in the municipal sector of a total of DKK 11.8 billion in 2002. 105 municipalities are supervised by the State because of poor finances. The current government has also made a record of cutting off the regional tools. The objectives of economic policy are full employment. The Minister of Finance has today, in his financial speech to Stortinget, stressed that fiscal policy is working, but with an unemployment rate of over 100 000 unemployed, I would say the opposite: economic policy has not worked out. In addition, the government continues a policy in which they cut heavily in welfare, where they implement ususial cuts. The strongest cut here comes in proportion, as the Minister of Finance has also explained in his speech. The Minister of Finance underlined that there will still be 600 000 who will be subject to the self-employment scheme, but he did not mention that there will be 300000 who will fall out due to the government's tightening up. The submitted budget does not contain, as the Labour Party sees it, a policy aimed at reducing unemployment. Here, there are few incentives for innovation, there is no increase in labour market measures, and it is also particularly provocative that the Government adds up to what I would characterise as a brutalization of working life. I believe that the Government's proposal for changes to the rules on leave and job protection is part of such a development. It is clear that this will help to increase the number of people in the labour market and to reduce unemployment. These are proposals that the Labour Party will be very much opposed to. Having listened to the Minister of Finance's legitimate concern about the sharp increase in social security expenditure, I would say that we should pursue a policy that contributes to the opposite, which includes people in the labour market and does not push them out of the labour market. The Labour Party will require a completely different political course this fall, where the fight against unemployment will be job no. 1st@item: inlistbox Ever since the fall of 2001, the Workers' Party has warned of the increase that everyone had to get off the job, all except the Government, who needed a long time before they saw it. At all intersections, we have also proposed increasing efforts to combat unemployment. But we are facing the fact that by the end of September there are about 110 000 people outside the ordinary labour market. We have a situation with very few response sites, in relation to the high unemployment rate. In the mid-1990s, where the unemployment rate was also high, much more was allocated. Then we had between 40,000 and 50,000 action sites. Now the government proposes about 12,000 to next year, that is, no increase. In the autumn, the working party will propose a sharp increase in the number of action sites. We can actually say this: for every billion that the current government gives in tax and tax terms, unemployment has increased by about 2,000 people. We're asked if it's evidence that tax relief solves problems or not. It is positive that the government follows up the nursery agreement from the Storting, it is joyous. But it's a fact that, despite the fact that the government in this budget spends a total of 67 billion crowns of oil, there's still a budget for increasing unemployment. We will continue to see that municipalities have to cut in schools and care for the elderly, and the government also implements several other social cuts. The Minister of Finance has asked for patience in the fight against unemployment. The Labour Party can promise a constructive but very impatient opposition policy in the fight against increasing unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-08.ana.ud435e233	I always listen with interest when the Workers' Party's fiscal spokesman speaks – excuse me, speaking woman – and therefore I want to start with a quotation from the Holden Committee, which was the parties' own selection to assess what was going on in the fight against unemployment. It says: «The problems encountered by the competitive sector now mainly relate to the formation of wages and the effect of monetary policy on the price of the crown. There's one here that has to look for the solutions. The selection will not recommend measures to support individual industries and businesses. With lower wage increases, monetary policy can be relaxed. Then the interest rate falls and the crown can be weakened.» So that's what they said, and this has happened. There is no doubt that this is how the policy works. When it comes to patience, I have to say that the Workers' Party should look at its own history. It takes time from economic growth to the decline of unemployment. This can be read in good experience from the early 1990s, and so will be the case now. We're not going to say that unemployment will continue to increase over the next year, but we're going to assume that with the financial arrangement we're now presenting, the unemployment rate will decrease every year. I also look forward with excitement to what the Workers' Party's alternative arrangement will mean, because I understand at Hill-Marta Solberg that tax relief according to her opinion – and I disagree with that – gives increased leave. This must mean that the Workers' Party is notifying significant tax increases. I also recorded in the election campaign that the Workers' Party presented a series of new spending proposals, which came to the top of those that the Stortinget has adopted, and which the Government is now proposing, in the order of billions of dollars. They will obviously also be financed through tax increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-08.ana.ud435e247	I just have to say that the budget that the Minister of Finance has presented today is very far from the policy that the Labour Party believes it is necessary to lead in the situation we have today, with such a high level of unemployment. We're very concerned that the time off is going to get stuck at a level over 100,000. That is why we also believe that it is not enough to do what the Minister of Finance and the Government do, the Minister of Finance is almost clinging to interest rates in the hope that they will solve the problems of unemployment. We also believe that targeted action is absolutely necessary, so we should avoid a high level of unemployment. The Workers' Party will propose in the economic policy of the autumn will also have such a device.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-08.ana.ud435e254	The Minister of Finance has announced brighter prospects for the Norwegian economy, with stronger economic growth and subsequent lower unemployment next year. That's good news. The growing optimism in business has not come about by itself. Strict budgets have contributed to lower interest rates and weaker crowns. Moderate wage settlement and significant tax relief have facilitated the situation of enterprises. Now it's important that we don't destroy what's achieved. A continuing low interest rate and a competitive krone rate require the budget to be adopted within a responsible framework. That means we have to say no to many good wishes and demands. If we can't keep up the growth of public expenditure, the result will be higher taxes, which will choke the value creation, or even more oil crowns into the economy, which will quickly result in higher interest rates and stronger dollars. It is gratifying that the Government announces new measures to renew the public sector and changes that can improve the growth capacity of the economy. It is important in a strategy to ensure that economic policy is sustainable, including from a generational point of view. Increased expenditure today will go at the expense of well-being tomorrow. It is important to remember that we also have a responsibility for tomorrow's pensioners and future taxpayers. We are facing difficult budgetary negotiations in Stortinget. The economic challenges require the ability to make tough priorities. The parliamentary situation requires the parties to show willingness to cooperate. The Government Parties invite to cooperate on an economic policy that helps to secure and create jobs. We invite cooperation on an economic policy that guarantees well-being and promotes innovation through research, development and necessary structural reforms. After the government has now submitted proposals to the government budget, the responsibility for finding solutions that can obtain majority voting lies in the Stortinget. The government parties have already announced that it would be natural to turn to the Progress Party. The Government Parties and the Advance Party have cooperated on several budgets. We've found good solutions, even though the distance has been great. Cooperation has provided a significant impact on the Progress Party. Government parties have stressed the accountability and predictability of economic policies, and the Progress Party has achieved a great deal in its priority areas. We have noticed that both the Advance Party and the Workers' Party in advance of the presentation of the budget have been more concerned with pointing a distance from the Government than with showing willingness to cooperate on the next year's government budget. It's a paradox that more parties seem to have more merit in reproducing the opposition role than in seeking influence through cooperation. The parties to the Government are concerned that the forthcoming negotiations on the budget should be conducted in a orderly manner and be marked by constructive cooperation. It's in everyone's interest that we avoid a lot of noise and games. We believe that the framework for the autumn budget negotiations will be clearer and more transparent if the central opposition parties present their alternative budgets before the start of negotiations. We have already heard that, among other things: The Labour Party will increase a number of public expenditure. It is important that all batches show how to cover the costs. The Government Parties therefore aim to wait with a concrete invitation to negotiations after the Progress Party and the Workers Party have submitted their alternative budgets. It will make the negotiation period shorter and hopefully cleaner. I would like to join the Minister of Finance's invitation to cooperate on the 2004 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-08.ana.ud435e271	The Minister of Finance stressed several times in his statement that this is a government budget for more jobs, for more well-being and for increased renewal. These are good thoughts and ambitions, but where in the world is this found in the budget? I have to say that one of the most important questions I asked myself when I read the budget, it was: What in the world is this government going to? Where in the world is this government going? We are now in a situation where the Government of the State budget manages to spend more money than ever before. It has been one of the key issues and issues of debate, particularly in the arguments of the government parties towards the Progress Party. Money usage, action rules, oil money. So the government is spending more money now than ever. But it's not because they want some way with this. They are squeezing thinly for a lot of good purposes, against which the Minister of Finance himself warned. He said it's important now to give priority. But here it was thinly spread, with no objectives and meaning: no clear, concrete, means of just finening increasing unemployment! The rule of action is dead following this presentation of the budget, because it is not possible to see a single factual reason why the Government actually maintains the rule of action, which was introduced by a majority in this Chamber a little over two years ago. And if you read the report that the government is giving of this, then the government is giving the Progress Party right in a lot of the criticism we've been practicing against the rule of action, precisely in that it's not possible to have a rule that's so mechanical and as static as the rule of action really is. So to some important main questions. The government estimates next year's growth in the economy to be 2.5 pst. But why on earth should we believe in that prognosis? After all, the budget does not add up to any intervention that would in itself stimulate growth in the economy. On the contrary, the rule of action lowers the tax revenue for next year, which is a signal that you do not believe in increasing growth in the economy. What you're saying right now is that this growth is going to come because consumers are going to keep spending money. So it should not come because we create more jobs, get more hands at work, get more economic incentives, no, it should get more money from consumers. And at the same time as this optimistic rate of growth, we see very little optimistic forecasts for the development of unemployment. I remind the government that when they presented the state budget last year, they bombed heavily on their unemployment assessment. The availability ended up significantly larger than what the government said when they released the state budget last year. And what reason should we have to believe that the forecasts presented by the Government this year are correct? Then there will be no improvement measures, no measures aimed at reducing unemployment. On the contrary, what you're doing is tightening the rules on permitting, which may be one of the most important tools in our business life to avoid going to more redundancies. It's dramatic at a time when we actually want to stop the unemployment going up. Let me take an example from business: if we had re-prioritized just $2 billion of the nearly 700 billion in circulation, for example. for the construction of installations which this size has been decided upon, only they had given 3000 new jobs alone. Just them alone! Think if the Government could have a vision and a direction for where it would with this! And then the government says it's important to modernise the public sector. Yes, what measures do we see in this budget for that? I found none, and although it is an important objective for the Government to do something on the tax side, this is a budget completely bare of important tax evasion that would actually have been a very important contribution to stimulating the economy. Finally, this is not an invitation to the Progress Party. I record it coming from Jan Tore Sanner, but the budget itself does not invite the Progress Party to cooperate. A budget without targets, without direction, without tax relief and without vision, yes, it is a budget far from the ambitions of the Progress Party for the development of the Norwegian economy in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-08.ana.ud435e288	I always listen when Siv Jensen talks, but I didn't get the visions. I also didn't get any alternative, and I got even less with myself any whole thing. But that it's possible to get so excited about getting right, I have even bigger problems to understand. Now I do not believe that the Progress Party is right in its attack on the rule of action. The party of progress has always been against it, and now believes it has been lifted. It's not exactly from the point of view that the forecasts should be taken with the greatest seriousness. Then you do it to disagree with the government's economic growth forecasts to a large point. You'd have to do that. You can, for example. believe in the forecasts of the Central Statistical Office, which are higher than those of the Government, or believe in the forecasts of the Bank of Norway, which are slightly lower than those of the Government, or believe in a midpoint between them. It's free choice. But I don't think you should make it a big political point. On the other hand, when it is said that the budget does not contain measures that are appropriate to combat unemployment, it is simply wrong. And you're so wrong that you also disagree with the parties' own analysis. In the Holden Committee, the parties describe how the fight against unemployment is to be conducted. The government has done that. It'll eventually give you results. It also shows the numbers that we've provided. But when you think that the rules of leave are one of the most important measures to reduce unemployment, you're on the wrong track, not to say that you might be on the stand. When you're on leave, you're free. When you're on leave, you're actually adorable for work – excuse me, because it's not comprehensive, but then Aetat can't fight to get that new job. The important thing, therefore, is that we have an active communication and that the entire budget is designed to address the basic problems of Norwegian competitive business rather than employing more people. By employing more people in the business world, you get more jobs, and then you get the time off. So simple, but so difficult, it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-08.ana.ud435e299	With regard to the visions of the Progress Party, the alternative of the Advance Party and the whole of the Progress Party, the Council of State will get it when we have had a little more than half an hour to go through the government's own budget. I understand that the Council of State is impatient, but a little longer we'll have to deal with it. Then it is not that the rules of leave are the most important in relation to the struggle for unemployment. But they're part of the whole thing. For the Progress Party, it is significantly more important to engage in a comprehensive approach to fiscal policy, as it helps to create a basis for businesses to employ more people, so that they dare to invest more, so that they dare to create more. Secondly, it is important for the Progress Party that we now start investing in our own country. This is e.g. a budget that is more or less limited to funds for new road investments. Yes, we have heard the Minister of Transport throughout the election campaign show that the time for road development is over. It is encouraging to hear in a country such as Norway, which is far from other countries in terms of road development and standard on roads. Something could also be done here because it would also have helped to reduce the costs of large parts of Norwegian business, which depend on good transport years to get their goods transported to the markets. When it is said, if you want to assess the unemployment rate, the development of the Norwegian economy, etc., you can draw a parallel to that when most of us are ill, we go to the doctor. We go to the doctor to get a diagnosis, and then, after the diagnosis is made, we get medicines to get healthy. But what is the Government doing with the patient? The government doesn't diagnose, the government doesn't print out any medicine where the goal is to make the Norwegian economy healthy, where the goal is to reduce unemployment. The government leaves the patient in the waiting room and hopes that the longer the patient stays in the waiting room, the more likely the problems will pass by themselves. There is no active, targeted policy where you have visions of where you're going. That's what worries me the most, and that's why I repeat what I said instead: there's nothing in this budget that invites the Progress Party to cooperate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-08.ana.ud435e308	The Minister of Finance concluded and concluded that this is a budget for work, well-being and renewal. It isn't. I have to say that I don't understand where the government has gone when it owes it to the preparation of the budget. To give an example: Kleben Florø AS resigned his last 350 last week, because they had a bad law of permacy – it was with the 42 weeks that the Minister of Labour and Administration was charged by the Stortinget in June to change the regulations. So the government is going the opposite way, one goes back to 26 weeks of lay-off, even though the whole industry has been yelling for better lay-off rules. It has just been the industrial solution that has increased since the summer. We saw a certain stabilisation this summer, now she has extra. And the answer with which the government is able to meet the yard industry is to go back to poorer schemes. 1 300 more action places have been allocated to the Government, to 20,000 more unemployed — a lower level of action places than one has had in previous periods of high unemployment. What we had to do now was carrots to the business community to get them to do more, create new jobs. And what one does is tell them that if you work someone, you're at risk when you have to leave, not just to pay for three days, but for 30 days. So it's a tax increase for business. It's carrots that this government has to contribute to the fight against unemployment. The unemployment problem was to be met with a broad front, said the Prime Minister in the debate on the throne. However, in this case, labour market measures, in industry, SND, must be implemented in the public sector and in research and education. The small increase in research and education is no more than what the Stortinget included in the revised budget. Then to the municipal sector. Are there multiple hands at work in the municipal sector? No, it won't. It's a much worse community economy than it was in the municipal economy proposition. The message to the municipalities is simply: find more speakers, find something to lay down, cut the quality of what we're doing. And it's after an election campaign where so much debate has gone on the contents of school, the quality of school, more teachers into school, and not least the quality of care for the elderly. Now we needed more hands, because now we had done enough to build up the care for the elderly. What is this message? Well, poorer school contents, fewer teachers, fewer opportunities to split up classes and do something exciting for students in the learning situation, it's getting worse care and more laid off. There are 1,500 vacant carers in Oslo and Akershus. None of them will be added next year with the government's municipal plan. What happens more in the municipal sector is privatisation. With a Right-Registration, of course, it's a priority. The changes in VAT imposed on the municipal sector now lead to the privatisation of municipal services on a large scale. We can see nothing but that here's the Right-Clone that still has a strong hold on public welfare, public care, in the municipal sector. So finally, who is going to pay the value that this government delivers the country? At the Christian People's Party, Bondevik said: ‘Yes, we have a poverty problem – also in Norway.’He went on to say, ‘I decided that if I were to lead a government again, I would address this problem.’ What are the poor, sick and old sheep in this budget? They get an increase in the tax on disease. One increases the credit card scheme in the population from $1,350 to $2,500. There are 300,000 sick people who today benefit from the free card scheme. One-third of the system disappears. One weakens the health care system, one weakens the disability pension rights, one cuts the rehabilitation money, one takes more money for help, and an increase in the self-payment both on the trip and on the x-ray. ‘Health is a cornerstone of our welfare policy’, said the Minister of Finance. Yes, it may be for those who can afford to be ill – it may seem. I just have to ask Foss, what's the government thinking? It's not the only contribution to the unemployed, and not the only contribution to those who are poor and need a handshake from the state and from the public in the situation we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-08.ana.ud435e333	I think we'll talk a little bit past each other if you characterize 900,000 Norwegians who benefit from the free card system, like the poor. Then we have a completely different analysis of where poverty problems are in society. The government is adding 240 million to this budget. kr in earmarked, targeted measures against the few, but important and unacceptable poverty pockets we have in our society. We are the first government to present an overall analysis of poverty problems, and action is also followed up in this budget. Permitting rules were the theme again. Let me say that it is the Storting that has adopted, on the basis of the Stoltenberg government's proposal in 2001, that the normal is 26 weeks. In Stortinget we were asked in spring to introduce a certain extension temporarily in the autumn. We have done so in a way that is also adapted to our EEA obligations, and the Stortinge did not change the permanent rules in this respect. I don't know if I remember faults – perhaps the representative would remind me if I were to do so – but I don't remember SV proposing a change in the law, which they are now calling for. The local economy is important. And as the Prime Minister has said, the increase in the overall framework of the municipalities, as this government is now proposing, has not been greater in several years. If you really think that 3 and a half billion kroner increase in the overall framework for municipalities should lead to dramatic, negative consequences, then I'm excited to see what SV's alternative proposal is, and how to combine billions of increases in all areas the representative has now been through, in a way that doesn't increase the taxes on business, which I understand is that SV will now stimulate through carrots. I look forward to supplying myself with that carrot bundle, and I look forward to a new look at SV's policy in that area as well. I'm actually enjoying myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-08.ana.ud435e344	It is good that the Minister of Finance is slipping. And now he's going to get the right. The free card scheme will hit the sick, she will hit the old, and she will hit the poor. And when the government starts with that targeting, what is it doing? Well, one gives more of that prescription that you're going to be tested, now you're going to be measured and weighed and looked at by both the one and the other before you can get an economic right, while one takes away the general arrangements that make people get help when they're having a difficult time. Permitting rules came under Stoltenberg, yes. But then we had a completely different unemployment statistics than the one we now have. The social partners wanted to have a less permissive, yes, but now the social partners want help to get over the downturn that we have, especially in the industry. They do not ask for permanent changes, nor has SV told us to propose. We suggest that one in regulation could have given the yard industry the drawing aid it is that a few permit rules for 52 weeks in 2004, so that one can contract new orders, which will then have to be designed before one can start reintroducing. It's not like people around all these industrial buildings and towns have so many alternative jobs to be offered. Then they have to go on leave and preferably on labour market measures and stay in the countryside, stay in town, pending the yard contracting new orders. If they have sent them to Oslo, to Bergen or to Ålesund, the skills we need to build the boats we are going to build are gone. So it must mean that the Minister of Finance wants to build up the yard industry. When it comes to the local economy, the government is going to have a completely different arrangement from the SV side, both to reduce employment and not least to preserve the well-being that we have in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-08.ana.ud435e355	The Christian People's Party is well pleased that the budget we online have been presented, so clearly emphasise the importance of securing and creating jobs, of passing on central welfare arrangements and of contributing to innovation and innovation. The government's economic policy has worked well in the year behind. It's coming, among other things. to be expressed through a number of signals that optimism is growing in business and in households. This policy is therefore being pursued in order to stimulate growth and employment. Having a job to go to is an invaluable good. The Christian People's Party is, therefore, very concerned about pursuing a policy that brings with it good living and development opportunities for the workplaces. Otherwise we are occupied with the close interaction between hand and spirit. This leads us to a significant increase in the fees for baptismal training, the continuation of the land use for private church buildings, and that the deduction scheme for voluntary teams and organisations is now extended to voluntary work within the Church of Norway. A core area of the Christian People's Party is family policy. We are, therefore, particularly pleased that the fulfilment of the nursery contract is a priority, with several kindergartens and lower parental pay. In practice, this means, among other things. to require 80 pst. public funding and a maximum price of NOK 2 750 from 1 May 2004 is secured. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party has always wanted to fill the care operation with practical content. Through several measures, this is clearly reflected in the present draft budget. The total revenue of the municipal sector is for example: a real growth of approximately DKK 3⁄4 billion. In addition, the effect of a lower interest rate level is present. I would also like to learn that hospitals and psychiatry are getting a strong boost. The budget contains the strongest increase in psychiatry since the psychiatry plan was signed. It is also committed to large investment projects in the hospital sector. Through the strengthened municipal economy, it is set up to improve the quality of care for the elderly, and it is provided for a good funding for specific resource-demanding users. Through this budget, the fight against poverty, both at home and outside, has been reinforced. Nearly a billion dollars will be spent on targeted measures to prevent poverty and help people out of poverty, and on the fight against drugs. The main strategy of the government is to enable more people to support themselves through their own work. Therefore, the measures in the budget are structured around this. Despite many demanding challenges in our own country, we must never forget the responsibility we have for the poorest of the poor. In the draft budget, Norwegian aid is increased to 0.94 pst. of GNI. Here the focus is on a wide range of development measures, but some main orientations are still emerging. Firstly, there is an undeniable fact that no investment is more effective in the fight against poverty than providing education to people. Furthermore, more is being given to countries on the way out of crisis and conflict, and efforts to treat HIV infection and AIDS are being strengthened. So a little bit back to the challenges in our own country. The investment in public transport of nearly one billion dollars will be marked. Incorporating passenger transport into the VAT system will have a very positive effect both on bus and on rail. Furthermore, the proposed reward scheme for metropolitan areas will mean a great deal for the environment, and the investment in rail networks and train radio systems will increase safety and regularity. I am sure that this budget will work positively for jobs and employment. A strong commitment to research and development, a range of activities in construction and construction and the establishment of a nation-wide seed fund to provide knowledge enterprises with high growth potential with a mix of patient equity and relevant competences are examples of constructive tools. One of the greatest challenges we have now is the fight for jobs and against unemployment. It requires us all to be willing to participate in sensible and practical solutions to win this battle. In the Christian People's Party, we will do what we can to make this possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-08.ana.ud435e378	The government has presented its third budget, and it is an irresponsible budget. It's a budget that gives increased unemployment, it gives poorer schooling and care for the elderly, and it makes it worse for those who have poor health. It is no longer in the pension fund that the government is letting billions of dollars out of the state fund to cover unemployment costs, or to compensate for the tax revenue that does not come from business, which is going badly right now. In order for us to be better able to afford pensions in the future, the workforce needs to be increased and it needs to be processed. Business needs help with that, and when things go bad, they need more help from the state. What is about stimulating activity in society needs to be increased in relation to what has been proposed. The fight against unemployment is getting heavier, and it is getting very expensive when so many businesses are shut down, have flagged out or have lost much of their equity. The government kept interest too high for too long. This led, among other things, to: for the loss of DKK 2.5 billion in one year in aquaculture and fisheries. That means that equity disappears. That's why we now have a bankruptcy rate. It is now proposed that the employer’s fee be increased by up to 10 pst. It'll break a lot of businesses, especially in the outboards. So it could get worse instead of better. The centre party will fight this change, and in that battle we had a majority with us in the election campaign. The central statistical agency has calculated that increased public purchasing power equivalent to DKK 10 billion per year would have prevented the growth of unemployment without putting pressure on the economy, and that tax relief for persons – in the same order of magnitude – would not have a positive impact on unemployment at all. The government has done the opposite of these professional advice. The unemployment curve is the fasit and shows the outcome of this policy – a broken bava for a government's broken economic policy. And this fragility is continuing now. The government's medicine is now that lay-offs should be cancelled and that more labour will be put into bulk. Is it so that the government wants to crack the shipyards when it says that the companies have to pay more when someone has to leave? We have not yet found any reinforcement of the SND in the papers that have been submitted, rather the opposite. The centre party will fight the changes in the law on perms, and will propose that we have to get back the old rule of 52 weeks of perms. Then go to the municipal sector. There won't be better school and care for the elderly without more money. Now there is a bill that is $ 1⁄2 billion less than what the government proposed in ours. And what the Prime Minister and others from the Government went around and said in the election campaign, that we're going to get the biggest growth in a long time, aren't many municipalities going to notice. The size decided in our 1 1⁄2 billion kroner in addition to what the Government proposed, and when the KS conducted its survey that showed that a third party of the municipalities had to reduce in school and care for the elderly, it was the majority’s appropriations in the Stortinget they built on. So now it's going to be $2 billion less than the majority set. So of the growth of $3⁄4 billion, $2 billion is earmarked. Only DKK 1.8 billion is free revenues, and it will include the new mechanism to compensate resource-intensive users. There will be little left for better schooling and care for the elderly. So the government says it has to be possible to get more out of the same sum by more tenders and reorganization. Trondheim Municipality has tried it out. Increased and costly sick leave is a result. 1000 out of 9,500 employees are away from work every day, and in the health care sector, the absence rate is over 14. Absence almost doubled in seven years. I'm afraid this might get worse. A greater proportion of the social shock is needed for those providing the local welfare services. That's what the Center Party is going to fight most for in this process. We see that the excess is going to be increased by 800 million. kr. It is they with poor health who have to pay. That's what the Center Party will fight against. In its work, the Centre Party will build on its own experience and on the gloomy facts behind the Government's unemployment curve in the year's budgetary procedure. We hope that the Workers' Party and SV will follow up their promises from the election campaign on fighting unemployment, a fairer distribution and a good enough community economy, and that they will do something as monks. We have a little hope that the Christian People's Party too will join such an agreement gradually. We hope for the grassroots in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-08.ana.ud435e410	I had almost waited for the representative Lund on behalf of the Central Party to enjoy a record increase in the free revenues, compared to what the Central Party proposed when they sat with the Municipal Minister. At that time it was not NOK 1.8 billion – that was 0.2, 0.2 and 0.2 in the three years they had budgetary responsibilities. The total income growth for municipalities was also lower in those years. But I understand that there are new notes in the Centre Party now, and you characterize the budget as 'unresponsible' in its entirety, by reference to professional advice, which the Centre Party follows in its approach. I haven't discovered that professional so far, but I'm still going to look for that professional, the economic expert, who says that the central party's way of operating economic policies will lead to better results, lower unemployment and more growth. I can correct one thing, and it is quite obvious that the budget does not include any increase in the employer's fee in the zones that have today differentiated the employer's fee of 10 pst. In that case, the representative has not come to the conclusion that we intend to follow up the ESA Decision, which was well noted by a Central Party Council in 1999, with a transitional period of three years, so that there will be no increase for anyone in the vicinity of the figure given by the representative. Otherwise, I just have to say that I don't believe the business community is asking for a decision to be taken on the basis of state measures. I register, among other things: business has asked for more flexible rules — not least the shipyards and the entire industry along the coast that live on orders that vary greatly, they have asked for more flexible rules for temporary employment. That's what the government is going to do. What is the view of the Center Party on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-08.ana.ud435e419	Today's messages from business include: that the shipyards say that they must now resign people. And we knew that from before. We've just been in a campaign and talked to business, and they say, we need a government that's on our side, we've missed it since this government came to. Jens Petter Ekorenes, a well-known person, a member of the Right Central Government, has said repeatedly: we need the old-fashioned policy that you stood for. Without it, Sunnmare didn't look like it does today. And he says it's going to be more profitable than those who flag out today, if we get help in technology development in Norway. It must be given over the State budget, as it is done in other countries. In Norway, we are about to save ourselves. The labour force has 14 times the value of the petroleum industry, said Jens Stoltenberg in the long-term programme of the Workers' Party. It's the workforce that's the most important asset we have. Then we can't add the debris. That's what this Government is about to do. We have to give help to all those who can put people to work. The municipal sector is important. If it also has to cancel teachers, assistant nurses and nurses because budgets require it, it won't get better. But the worst thing about it is that people say that's not what politicians said to us in the election campaign. In the election campaign, the government went out and said – it seemed this way – that the economy would be better than what the majority decided in ours, and then it presented something that is 2 billion dollars lower than what the Storting decided! So to independent experts who say that the central party's policy has been good. Those who assessed Norway's Bank's interest rate policy gave the character Ng+ to Norway's Bank. But that's the character of Per-Christian Foss, that! Because he is the one who should have tightened up with Norway's Bank when he saw things went wrong with Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-08.ana.ud435e428	The government's proposal for a government budget has a good Left profile. The budget has a clear commitment to creating and securing jobs, including: through a low interest rate and a competitive price. Furthermore, the government is busy helping those who have the least, and launches in the budget a solid package of measures for our most difficult times. Once again, we get a budget with a solid commitment to environmental action. The focus on public transport, climate and alternative renewable energy sources continues to rise to new heights. A year ago, the interest rate on Noregs Bank was 7 pst. In addition, the Norwegian krona was very strong. Strong krone made Norwegian product expensive abroad and weakened Norwegian competitiveness in the international market. Last year's main requirement was a tight budget to secure lower interest rates and weaker rates. The 2003 state budget was tight, and today, one year later, interest rates have fallen by 4.5 pst. In addition, the crown has weighed down. Despite the government continuing its budgetary discipline, the 2004 budget is neutral. It may be tempting to spend more money for various good purposes, but more money for everyone gives higher interest rates, stronger crowns, and it will therefore be a threat to employment, especially in the competitive sector. The best way to find a solution is to create new and lasting jobs. We need to ensure that thousands of new businesses and jobs are created that are capable of meeting international competition and that at the same time can contribute to the community, so that we can solve the welfare challenges we face. The draft budget contains a number of measures to support innovation and business. The research will be strengthened by $1.1 billion. The government adds 200 new grant settings, completes the quality reform before higher education, and increases the permissions for long-term basic research through the Norwegian Research Council. Research provides ground for value creation and new workplaces. Furthermore, the government in the budget has a holistic plan for increasing innovation. As a result, this budget becomes a force for small businesses, for employment and innovation. Bus, train, ferry and track are about freedom of movement for many. The left will have more frequent departures, lower prices and better security. The budget for 2003 was the largest contribution of the time to public transport, and in the 2004 draft budget we are making our own Norwegian record! The overall collective effort has escalated by SEK 1.1 billion since Bondevik II took over the fall of 2001. Such a collective lift provides a health and environmental alternative to increased car use. This year, student discounts are to be extended to cover longer journeys, and the upgrading and expansion of the railway and t-rail network is continuing. The government will provide public transport with a fee of nearly 500 million. kr. The left-hand side requires that the fees are paid to the users. Progress in the development of alternative, renewable energy sources continues – to use Øystein Djupedal's own words in the Evening Post on 11 September this year: ‘In fact, the government invites a green energy revolution in Norway.’ The government will make it profitable for private, business and institutions to switch from electricity as a source of heat to different forms of district heating and bioenergy. There's a lot of private wealth in Norway. This, combined with social security commitments that are emerging, means that one must dare to abandon the idea that welfare schemes should be applied equally to the entire population. Welfare schemes need to be more targeted for those who need it the most. In 1984, 140,000 people benefited from the self-employed in health services, and in 2003 this was estimated to be 900,000. This testifies to the fact that the system is too wide. This is why the Government is increasing the characteristics of the health sector. It's important to stress that as the ownership stick increases, we spare the most deferred groups. The left is particularly pleased that the government is proposing nearly $1 billion in targeted measures to prevent and combat poverty — an increase of 240 million. kr in the year’s budget. Increasing the quality of life and the dignity of our drug addicts is a heart issue for the Left, and we are very pleased that these are precisely the ones that are being prioritised. The path to psychiatry is also increasing. We must have a welfare policy that takes care of those who need the most help from the community – we must take a social responsibility to ensure all the dignity of all life stages. In the local election campaign this year, the left-wing strengthening of local democracy had as its main slogan. In the debate, the Left called for the municipalities to be overrun by the Stortinget. The left promised more money to the municipalities. In the government's budget proposal, there is an increase of $3⁄4 billion for municipalities. The government's budget proposal is good. The left is very pleased that the Government delivers on the left is especially concerned with, e.g. environment, small businesses and social responsibility. If a bunch of stuff means that job no. 1 is the fight against the increasing unemployment, the Left hopes that we will be able to get behind a 2004 budget that aims to create and secure jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-08.ana.ud435e463	The economic situation is such that economic policy must stimulate production and employment in the mainland economy. The government is adding up to a budget that is roughly neutral to the economy. Unemployment is expected to rise and growth to slow down in the economy. This should imply that a person should use more resources in 2004 than proposed by the Government. In the Ministry of Fisheries's budget there is far too little funding for tugboats. These boats are absolutely necessary to ensure oil protection in the north, where international oil traffic is increasing sharply. The Minister for Fisheries would like to refer to an agreement on the use of trawlers for this task. It may prove to be both expensive and not appropriate. The budget of the Ministry of Fisheries should be much stronger in fishing ports. It is wrong that loaded fishing boats should be grounded when delivering their catch. After all, they contribute everything to the big community. The government will have VAT on port services, while other transport services are exempted. The Coastal Party will have equal treatment for all transport services. More of the oil fund should be located in the hinterland. A good part of the public debt in the local government sector can be converted into debt in the oil fund. The government will cut off the property tax by only 100 million. kr. This constitutes less than 10 pst. of the proceeds of that tax. It rhymes poorly with the promised Government has given to liquidate the benefit tax in the current period. Is it really that the Government will commit itself to removing the remaining billion that this tax will amount to in 2005? If we had followed the policy of the Coastal Party, we would not have been in a situation where we had to remove the differentiated employer's fee. It is proposed to build new jobs in districts that will be affected by the removal of the employer’s fee. But how is this to be implemented in practice? The government's lack of investment in local volunteer offices and local equality students is a poor use of resources. This means cutting out the important expertise in these positions. The transfers to the municipalities do not increase as much as foreseen in the Community economicproposition for 2004. The coastal party wants a much stronger commitment to important municipal tasks such as health and education. Nearly double the free-card limit is completely unsustainable and will just hit them weak in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-08.ana.ud435e480	It is right, as Mr Bastesen says, that the financial policy itself, i.e. the budget, will have a neutral effect on economic activity. However, economic policy covers something much more than that, not least the significant relief in interest rates and the damped dollar rate. It is an active contribution to stimulating the economy. It is also in line with what the parties themselves have wanted, that monetary policy is now going to work, because it helps to strengthen our competitiveness. I am pleased that we get the Coastal Party's support to remove the benefit tax on housing during this period. It's Monser, too! The representative Bastesen said that the policy of the Coastal Party would not lead to an ESA obligation to change the differentiated employer’s fee. I have some problem seeing that. In that case, it must have meant a termination of the EEA Agreement, which would have had dramatic consequences for large parts of the coastal economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-08.ana.ud435e489	I thank the Minister of Finance for taking the floor. It's a little strange to hear the Minister of Finance say he's going to remove the benefit tax by living in owner-occupied dwellings. When he says that from this pulpit, I assume that it will be the case in 2004, but it is not shown in the budget, where it is said that only approx. 10 pst. must be removed. There is no doubt that if one had followed the policy of the Coastal Party, we would have avoided the removal of the differentiated employer's fee. The finance minister says that by following the policy of the Coastal Party, we had been in a completely different situation. We could have had a trade agreement with the European Union. We did not have to have an EEA agreement, which shows that we have a B membership in the EU instead of a full membership, as we now have. It's time to take up negotiations on just this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-08.ana.ud435e498	I will leave the temptation to take up a new EU membership debate with the representative of Bastesen. That's probably a possibility later. This has been an interesting debate to listen to. I just have a few comments on the social profile. Let me remind you that when I mentioned that the government in this budget is increasing the poverty rate by 240 million. So it comes to the top of the efforts made in previous budgets, so that the scale of these measures is now 800 to 900 million. kr. It is important, and it is important that we have received the support of the Storting, because it is actually the first government to address the poverty pocket problems with targeted measures, not just mentioned in general half or a quarter of the Norwegian population as poor. When the credit card cap increases, it means that fewer people are protected by the system. But I remind you that our proposal will therefore cover 600,000, and that is about the same proportion as when the Labour Party government left the power of the Bondevik I government in 1997. You might want to be a little bit careful about describing the disaster in that situation, because someone can meet themselves at the door there. This budget is not directed towards any political party on the basis of any tactical motives for cooperation in the Stortinget. It is an open invitation to all parties to cooperate, and it is an invitation to the social partners to also contribute in their field to moderate wage-fixing, which will be an important contribution to the fight against unemployment. The most important thing the government proposes is to pursue an economic policy that has so far given the positive result that fewer and fewer companies are talking about flagging out, fewer and fewer companies are making redundancies, and more and more companies are taking a positive view of future developments and of their own achievements. When I referred to a business survey in my post, there was no theoretical study of the Statistical Central Bureau. It's the managers' own assessments of positive prospects, and not in a year and a half has given so many positive signals that things are going better now. That's not all we do. The budget contains – and here something was said wrong in SV’s posts, among others. when it is said that no more is given to research and education in this budget — a significant increase both in research and education. It is part of the Government’s overall industrial strategy. Research and development is an important part of this. Public activity is also important as part of employment — and we are not just talking about laying rules or employment measures, or about Aetat, which is important enough. However, there are significant increases in this budget in the lending framework for school buildings, general construction in different areas, rail and road investment, and the local government sector, which together also has a significant employment impact. It's not the most important thing, but it's part of a whole picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-08.ana.ud435e514	The President will propose that the Minister of Finance report on the Government's proposals for the 2004 State and National Budget be presented for further consideration in a subsequent meeting. – This is deemed to be adopted.
