ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e71	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e76	I suggest Åsa Elvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e81	Ms. Åsa Elvik has been proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Åsa Elvik is unanimously elected president of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e95	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e106	The case of the conversion of Statskonsult into an AS and the Law on the Presidency and Remuneration of Employees has run parallel in two committees in Stortinget. There has been a lot of debate on matters, both because, in the context of the cases, important issues have been raised in principle, such as the launching of competition, the conversion tools in a well-functioning public sector, how to safeguard workers' rights and humane working life in the event of conversions, and because there have been considerable uncertainties about the legal status of employees. The questions in these cases are the different opinions about. The matter we are dealing with today is not a rematch on what was decided in Stortingen a few days ago. But first to the proceedings of the municipal committee. First of all, I would like to thank the Committee and, in particular, the chairman of the Committee for vigilance, and because we have managed to clarify the matter that was not initially there. It was necessary. In the debate on the budgetary position of the family, culture and the administrative committee last Thursday, the Council of State Norman stated that ‘it would have been a little easier for the employees of the Municipal Committee in the Grand Duchy to have not spent so long on getting the matter under way that they could not be dealt with in the Grand Duchy on the date originally planned’. I don't know exactly what date Norman had planned for Stortinget, but I just want to say on behalf of the Municipal Committee that I am happy that the employees do not share the opinion of the Council of State on summer meal from our side, but rather have expressed gratitude for the job that both the SV, the Municipal Committee and the Stortinget have done, and that we have chosen to go into the matter as closely as we did after the bill came to Stortinget. We have done this because we believe something about an inclusive working life, that it must prove in practice that we mean what we say in the celebrations of modernising the public sector. It has not been clear at any time that if the State Consultant were converted into an AS, the employees who came with would be assured, as the Government has proposed. Part of the situation of such transformations is that workers go from one law, the Civil Service Act, to another, the Labour Environment Act. Therefore, there has been a need for a transitional law, and it has not been disputed by those who move into the new company. The conflict has concerned those who have not wanted to join the new company. When the Government submitted Ot.prp. No 5 for 2003–04, which is best referred to as a button, in the context of the fact that ‘the need for redundancy may cover about half of the number of employees’, as stated in St.prp. No 1st@item: It's an insecure situation. Should a take the wording of the proposition literally, the legal status of those who did not want to join a new company would have been changed and not in line with the Civil Service Act. To this end, the Committee decided to hold a hearing in which the organisations of its staff were called. In addition, Professor Henning Jakhelln, an expert on labour law, was called to the Committee. At this hearing, it was found that the employees had a rather different view from the government of the process of conversion they had undergone. They described the process as a raw drive. In addition, it was established during the hearing when the legal status of those who did not want to join the new company was that they had the right to reserve, which was not included in this proposition in such a way that it was possible to understand that it was what the Government had intended to implement. In this case, then, there have been so many uncertainties – it has been established that the new company must be substantially less than the number of employees they currently have, that the tasks are rather unclear, and that it is a very tough competitive market to enter this new company – that it is clear that employees must have the right to continue to rely on the State as their employer and thus trigger the rights to wait pay under the Civil Service Act if they do not want to join. The wording of the odelstingsproposition should have mentioned this fact, so that there was no misunderstanding. The sentence describing the rights of the officials in the proposal was as follows: «The right of waiting pay will be lost as the employee in this situation has not accepted the offer of other appropriate work.» Yes, it is possible that the Council of State sees it as appropriate work if you go to a company where everything points to the fact that there is no need for half of the employees. That's one thing. The second is that the Civil Service Act states that this right is there and that it is neither the Stortinget nor the Ministry to assess whether you may be entitled to a waiting wage. It's Aetat's. Despite the very extensive and partly conflicting correspondence between the Stortinget and the Government in the matter, the correct understanding of the law was not clarified by the Council of State Norman until the last Monday of the hearing, where it was established that in this case, Aetat is deciding on the question of waiting pay on an individual application. This is described in more detail in the setting. It is fundamental to me, as a representative of big business, that we take decisions that do not conflict with other laws governing employment, and that there is clarity in the legal situation that applies to the employees. As rapporteur, I would like to stress that in this case we do not see it as such that we have given the employees rights they would not otherwise have had, as it has been produced. We grant the employees the rights that it has been common to grant to civil servants who, in the event of conversions, become members of the limited liability companies, as well as to seek the care of those who wish to make a reservation under the Civil Service Act. However, the majority will provide employees with a slightly longer period of reflection than the Government will. After the information I have received today, they will be given a deadline in the middle of the Rome Christmas to decide whether they will join the new company or not. I want to draw the attention again to the fact that the Directorate Statskonsult has 140 employees today, where the average age is 50 years, and many are over 60 years old. Unfortunately, it is a fact that high unemployment makes it difficult to get a new job when you are at such an age. It is also a fact that the employees of the Statskonsult have a high level of competence, but the problem is there, and the uncertainty is great. It also makes this case different from other situations for which we have had similar transitional laws. Conditions differ significantly from other interim laws in transformation cases, where employees have had a much clearer defined and continuing business to do. In addition, in this case, there has been a much shorter period of time for the process both before and after the decision than has been made in other cases. We note that on the part of the Government, it has been shown that, when converted from management companies to companies, temporary laws have also been promoted under other governments in the same way. To that I would like to say briefly that we have looked at that, and we have assessed similarities and inequalities between this situation and other situations. We have not only looked at the wording of the temporary legislative proposal submitted, but also at the issues such as these. Any transitional law must be understood in the light of the situation. In other situations of redundancy as part of the transformation, co-organisations have been set up to deal with the conversion of surplus staff. In BaneTele, to which reference is made, there were 27 people who were working for the new company. In Mesta, the Arbeitsforskningsinstitutet and Avinor, the tasks have been the same in the new company, and the employees have been able to follow with a completely different predictability over that work. In all the situations referred to, the process has been extended for a longer period of time, in several stages. Through their organisations, employees have been involved to a very different extent than in this case, among other things. as a result of a declaration of intent on conversion into the main agreement. The Committee has also noted that the Council of State has stated quite summarically that those who will not join the new company will be terminated. It has therefore been absolutely necessary to clarify that the rules of the Civil Service Act apply. I have expectations that this kind of matter will be presented in the future in a clearer way than what this matter has been. It is sad that the Progress Party does not agree to ensure that the employees get a slightly longer response time than they had in the job. In addition, we would like to point out that the equity situation in the company is such that we believe it is wrong to push a calculated surplus to the company. We believe that the state should bear the waiting wage.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e143	Today, the County Council of Norman has to face strong criticism from the majority of the population when it comes to the process against the 140 members of the State Consultant. In addition, there has been a vague signal from the Council of State when it comes to interpreting and understanding the content of Ot.prp. No 5, which we have to deal with today. This has been so unclear that the Labour Party finds reason to claim that here the Stortinget has received information from the Council of State for which there is every reason to be critical. The understanding of the law was clearly and completely clarified by the Council of State only when the question came up. This thing hasn't been good. There is no doubt that she has been ill-delivered and has had a lack of clarifications and a lack of clarifications related to labour law. The question of the right to retain the country as an employer, the waiting wage system and the budgetary implications has been difficult to obtain. It should not have been necessary for them to join the State Consultant to engage Professor Henning Jakhelln of the University of Oslo in order to obtain legal clarification in this matter. Despite extensive correspondence, through which the case-speaker also went through, there was no final clarification of where the Council of State was concerned, until the hearing of the Committee on 8 December. The Labour Party wanted primarily to keep State Consult as an own management body. When it is now decided that State Consultant will become a limited liability company from 1 January 2004, it is important to take care of them in addition to their rights. The country as an employer must act cleanly here. The additions to the new company must be guaranteed both the right of access to a different position in the country and the right to a waiting salary if they are terminated for reasons mentioned in section 13 of the Staff Act. 1 letters a, b and c. In this area, we're dealing with some of the things that have been suggested in the proposition. For those who do not want to join the new company, there is no doubt that there has been a ambiguity that has been very unfortunate for the case. The formulations of the proposition and the Ministry's answers to questions from among others. The municipal committee is the basis for this ambiguity. Here, the Labour Party believes that it is the government's task uninvited to provide the Storting with all the information necessary for a matter to be properly dealt with. The clarification of the facts, as mentioned earlier, did not come before in the hearing with both the Council of State Norman, with the Council of State of the Ministry of Justice as constitutionally responsible for the law department and with Professor Henning Jakhelln on 8 December. The case would have been much easier for all the parties involved if the clarification had been done at a much earlier time. In this context, it is appropriate to refer to Professor Henning Jakhelln’s distribution to the Service Managers’ Organisations of the State Consultant of 12 November 2003. It says the following: ‘... there are significant uncertainties of the new limited liability company and substantial changes in the employment of employees must be taken into account that the employees must be entitled to choose to rely on the State as their employer.’ This conclusion was fully supported by the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice, which, in a letter dated 3 December 2003, states: ‘The division of laws agrees with this conclusion.’ It is therefore surprising to me that the Council of State Norman, in a letter to the Committee on the same day, states: ‘The managing body Statskonsult will cease from the date of conversion and the employees will have no State activity to reserve in relation to.’;» So, later on, Norman has changed this perception. Therefore, there should no longer be any doubt that they have the right to relate to the State in general and not just to the State at Statskonsult. In the case of questions relating to waiting wages, the proposition states: «The right of waiting pay will be lost as the employee in this situation has not accepted the offer of other appropriate work.» Also at this point, we have now got a clarification, also through the hearing on 8 December. Now the Council of State says that officials in the State who are laid off because of the loss of their work will have external rights in the state and waiting-time rights in accordance with the service law’s destinations. This means that they can be added to the waiting salary after an individual assessment, which is then done by Aetat – that is, no special treatment. When the Council of State Norman now claims that this is how the proposition should have been understood, yes, we are many who have gone astray in words and formulations. There are many people who have misunderstood this at least. I have registered that the draft law has not been on ordinary hearing either. Of course, it is relevant to discuss whether a hearing would have been necessary at all, but I would never have accepted that the fact that the case has been debated in the media, as it stands in the proposition, can be equated with an ordinary hearing round. According to service staff organisations, there have also been no discussions between the department and local trustees in this matter. Against this background, questions have been asked whether the distribution instructions have also been broken. I will not comment on this further, only note that the Ministry has not sought to provide the Stortinget with information on how or whether the case has been dealt with in accordance with the distribution instructions. So one can of course discuss further if this doesn't testify to the total lack of willingness to openness and transparency, but I'll leave it hanging in this round. Finally, I would just like to stress that it is also important that they be added to Statskonsult to continue their pension relationship with the State Pension Fund or with another pension corporation that has the corresponding conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e189	Ot. pp. No 5 for 2002-2003 is about the priority and waiting pay of employees in Statskonsult AS. Statskonsult was adopted to a limited liability company in Stortinget last Thursday. It may be an important point to bring before today's debate, which is actually about giving workers extended rights in this process. It is not the impression that has stuck after the last weeks' debate on this matter. So today's debate in Odelstinget is not about the formation of companies, but about what happens to it. Such conversion to a limited liability company means that employees go from the scope of the Civil Service Act to that of the Environmental Protection Act. In this case, a proposal is made for employees to retain the right of priority to a State position and to a waiting salary in accordance with Section 13 paragraph of the Civil Service Act. 2 to No 6 for a period of three years from the date of conversion. It is clarified in the proposal that this is a transitional arrangement, limited to employees accompanying the activities of the transformation process. From the right, I find it important to stress the fact that Ot.prp. No 5 follows the same model with the wordings that the Magnitude for the longest time has accepted in the treatment of similar propositions. Ot. pp. No So 5 is about the rights of those who choose to maintain their employment with Statskonsult AS. It is not about the rights of those who choose to exercise the right to reservation or to vote. The now mentioned sentence on the waiting pay rights of those who choose to make a reservation can only be understood as an indication of what is expected to result for those who do not choose to maintain their employment. That the details of the procedure for the treatment of their rights are elaborated may be called ‘new information’ for those representatives of the Stortinge who did not know these rules in advance, but for the Stortinge as a body, this is not new or other information in relation to what was previously provided, since these procedures have been adopted by the Storinge. Thus, the claim of ‘misleading’ of the Storting is completely groundless. Nor has any understanding of the rights of employees in this case been taken into account other than in previous similar cases. As the Government has shown in a letter to the Committee on this matter, previous governments have also provided the following understanding of the rules for the separation of State activities: Conversion with the associated special law on the right to earnings and preferential rights is not, of course, contrary to the Basic Law § 97. The employees have the right to vote because of the uncertainty faced by the new business, but the content of this right to vote is only a right to be terminated with the rights of the State employee, i.e. waiting and priority. The offer of a job in the separated enterprise must be expected to be considered as an offer of ‘appropriate work’ in relation to the waiting wage rules. The only thing that, in my opinion, is new in this matter seems to be that the representatives of the Workers' Party have become aware of these things. Nor has the government taken as a pre-requisite in the transformation that half of the employees will be laid off, as has been claimed. The government has assumed that depopulation is probable, but the extent is uncertain. Just for the sake of the employees affected by this, the Government has promoted Ot.prp. No 5 on the right to a waiting wage and a right of priority. It is worth noting the temperature that has been in this matter. In particular, there have been unusually strong allegations in the press, including: that this has been ‘unlawful’ and ‘in breach of the Constitution’. This has been both groundless and false claims, and contributes only to weakening the company's reputation among the audience and current and future customers. In other words, some have been very active in talking the company down, creating as much anxiety as possible, and in this way only helped to give State Consultant AS a bad start. At the same time, unrealistic expectations have been created as to what might happen to workers who may choose not to join the new company. Here it is crucial to stress that the state does not act in such a way that exclusion from the labour market increases. I would like to show here that the employees of the State Consultant are currently covered by the Main Agreement on Tariffs in the State, which regulates, among other things, the possibilities to withdraw the AFP. After conversion to AS, the employees will no longer be covered by the Main Tariff Agreement in the country. In order to ensure that employees continue to be entitled to the AFP after the conversion, State Consultant AS must conclude a collective agreement to that effect with the employees’ organisations in the company. It provides for continued membership of the State Pension Fund, among others. to the proposal for an additional subsidy of 7,5 million. kr. These are issues that have to be addressed by the board of directors of the company, but there is no indication that Statskonsult AS would like to have a pension agreement with another company, or that one does not want to have an AFP scheme. The last point I want to stay a little bit at is the risk of extinction. I would say, as mentioned earlier, that there have been good contributions from both some employees, the legal advisers and some politicians to shut down the company. It can make the start of the market tougher than it should be. Furthermore, in the view of the Right, there is an unacceptable risk of social exclusion when a company is granted an economic self-interest. That is the reason why the company should be subject to the obligation to reimburse maintenance costs, as proposed by the Government. This is the only way the company can benefit financially from the continued involvement of employees in the labour market. It will stimulate active instruments, such as: continuing training for the benefit of individual employees. Updating the skills and clean-up of the areas in which State consultants are really good will provide the new company with good opportunities in a diverse consulting market. The experience of transformations, including: in the Post, reports a large-scale exclusion from the labour market due to the widespread use of waiting wages. The waiting wage costs were covered here by the State and not by the enterprise, and it gave a very unfortunate incentive to use a passive system as a waiting wage, instead of the employer seeking to keep and empower employees for continuing work in the labour market. The Government proposes that the costs of waiting wages be borne by the new limited liability company, and this proposal is also promoted in this case on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. This will ensure that the company has a clear economic interest in maintaining employees in the company or, where appropriate, in the working life, in order not to be burdened with waiting wages. I allow myself, on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, to promote the two proposals which appear in the Committee's position as minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e225	The representative Hans Kristian Hogsnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e228	This case has received an unusually high noise level. In fact, I think that we only now see the reasons why the noise level has been so high. I record that the representative Oppebøen Hansen in his contribution was probably also speaking on behalf of the Progress Party when it came to criticism of the Council of State. I'll take a distance from that. The criticism that the Progress Party has raised in this matter has been formulated. I do not characterise our criticism as massive or strong. That's what the representative Upbeøen Hansen will do for himself. I also record that Uppebøen Hansen quite nicely covered the fact that the Workers' Party did not long ago vote to convert this company into AS, but blamed it on other parties. It's probably also this subsidiary reality that the Workers' Party is trying to distance itself from, which is giving rise there. As I said, I myself have at least gradually received a more clear picture of what this matter has been about. I also think that the proposal of the majority of the committee that is being discussed here today tells a little about it. The reason for the debate has been that there has been a lack of pre-work and a lack of focus on employee rights, that there has been a new turn in relation to previous transformations, that the Government has in a way put forward new practices, and that there has been uncertainty and uncertainty for employees. There have been allegations of violation of the Constitution and other laws. If one looks at the proposals promoted by the majority of the Committee, one might wonder what the consequences of these proposals are. If those proposals do not create uncertainty, lack of pre-work, etc., I do not know. At least they break with all previous temporary laws on pre-emption and waiting pay. It will create enormous uncertainty and confusion about a number of conditions. Who will be considered as the legal employer during such a period of reservation as is proposed? Who becomes responsible for wages and salaries and other employer obligations during this period, etc.? A number of uncertainties emerge after these proposals. The proposal for a new Section 2 must clearly be seen to be contrary to the applicable law in relation to Section 13 paragraph of the Civil Service Act. 6 and previous special laws on pre-emption and waiting pay. I believe that the picture you have of this matter can be hung on the wall as an example of terror and warning for everyone who has participated in the debate. Of course, this has created uncertainty for employees, by means of the Ministry, the Council of State, the trade unions and trade unions, but not least the political majority of the Committee, which consists of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV. It also comes out quite strongly, I think, when the case-rapporteur actually puts his index finger on something that I think might be the cause of the noise level. Employees in the State Consultant must expect enormous competition from transformation, said the case-rapporteur. Of course! But why should government employees be exempted from being exposed to competition? Is it not true that government employees already have advantages far beyond what ordinary workers have? Now take the wait pay as an example of that. Who's getting the waiter's pay? I will first be allowed to say that at the end of 2002 2 600 people were paid waiting wages. During the first six months of this year, 42 people who were on the waiting pay shifts to permanent employment. It should have been a matter for Stortinget. Waiting pay is paid to the person who has been laid off for the following reasons: the position has been withdrawn or the work has been lost; it is permanently unsuitable to perform the service properly because of illness; or you no longer have the qualifications necessary for the position. How long can you go to wait? Before age 50, it's three years old. From 50 to 54, you can walk for four years. From the age of 55 you can go for 12 years on a waiting salary. Full waiting pay is equal to 66 pst. of gross wages and salaries on retirement. So during the waiting period, one can earn up to 82.5 pst. of previous wages and salaries before the end of the waiting period. In addition, waiting wages are paid regardless of whether one receives a fixed 100 pst. position. These are the moments that I'm trying to figure out. I find it strange that there is so much noise created about a working group that, to those degrees, has job protection and benefits in relation to other workers in this community. The waiting pay system is basically grossly unfair. While ordinary employees, if I'm allowed to say that, get daily unemployment benefits for a maximum of two years, one can, as I say, have a waiting salary of up to twelve years. The waiting pay is higher, is provided longer and has fewer limitations than the daily allowance. With regard to the daily allowance, the payments are cut if one works more than 50 pst, while with respect to the waiting wage, it is only a constraint that one does not earn more than 82 pst. of previous wages and salaries. There is no upper limit on how much you can get in the waiting wage, as there is for people on unemployment benefit. This is initially just right. A head of private business who gets unemployed, if he gets even close to unemployment benefits, has to deal with beyond NOK 200,000 a maximum, while a head of a department can raise far above this. My question is, is it that in the country it is heavier to work than in the private sector? Is it the case that the competence in state activities is not valued, and that is why they must have these supplementary schemes – that they do not have opportunities in the ordinary working life? I don't think so. I actually think it's the opposite. I actually think that people who are employed in the state have a competence that makes them possibly in demand if we allow them to be asked instead of passivating them with waiting pay from three to twelve years. Without it having anything to do with the matter, I sincerely believe that the waiting pay system should be removed, and that the quitters in the state should also be referred to the same rules that apply to the outlawed and retired in the private and municipal sectors. Where appropriate, one may use, to a greater extent, final packages for rationalisation. It is a little strange that the 2004 government, with the support of the Workers' Party, has granted 450 million. kr for people to sit passive.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e258	This case has caused a lot of disturbance. But rarely has the expression "storm in water glasses" been more in place. What we are dealing with today is certainly a positive change in the law to the benefit of those who had to move from the State Consulting Board to Statskonsult AS. They get three years of all dishes under the Service Managers Act, including the right to a different State position and a waiting salary, i.e. free choice on the top shelf. And then we experience a shadow boxing with claims that the government is inviting illegal decisions, even to unconstitutional ones. So serious were the claims that it felt almost safe when the law department finally, in the public hearing, found – for the sake of security, I suppose – to clarify that the proposal is not contrary to human rights. The way in which the Department has dealt with this matter is identical to the way in which all previous governments have dealt with similar matters. Then, what we do not know has raised criticism of the way in which we process and the content, and the noise has not been approximated at the same level. What is the starting point? The government wants to transform State Consultant into State AS. There's quite a stir in the Storting. Yes, I want to make it clear that the Labour Party has also voted for it. The government will not act in such a way that the government as an employer helps to increase social exclusion. Statskonsult is getting new opportunities and new markets. One assumes, however, that there may be a need for some staffing. If it's real, the need would be the same whatever, change or not. Those who may lose the job have a waiting salary and a three-year entitlement to another job. Those who refuse to follow their job to the new company, are dismissed, have the right to a different state position and will be assessed by Aetat if they have the right to a waiting salary. So the whole thing, the troubles and the media, is about a no to follow with his job in a new corporate form is to understand as "no" to work properly. All governments that have assessed similar matters have suspected that it is. Aetate's assessment might give us a test. In any case, it is correct and necessary that the Government, to the best of its ability, has made an assessment. That's what I thought we should do in this thing too, to give advice to those who should choose. The government has made a realistic assessment, in my view. The government has arranged for the situation of workers to be taken care of. The new company has to bear the cost of redundancy, and thus has every reason to try to get the ignition and keep the jobs instead. With a high level of competence and the public sector as a whole, it must be possible. At the same time, however, service workers' rights and pension obligations, under this AFP, have been taken care of if the new company so wishes. They have even received money to take care of this. Finally, a small conch relative to those to which this transformation is given. In fact, there is nothing they can achieve by reserving that they are not guaranteed by going to the new AS. At that time, the torment of the election would not be so problematic and would require such a long time. Everyone can actually choose on the top shelf - they are invited to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e277	The Statskonsult case contains at least three relationships. First, the question of directorate or AS after 1 January 2004. Secondly, in case AS, what tasks should the new State Consultant have? And thirdly, the process in relation to them added and they correct them in such a case. The centre party still believes the state should still have an independent trade union body for efficiency and organisation, leadership, IT, etc. State Consultant has played that role in a good way, and the Ministry of Labour and Administration makes its own budget proposal an additional report on the expertise of State Consultant until now. I refer to both comments from the Centre Party and our position in the Budget-Inst. S. No 2 and to the debate on this matter. I'm going to go to Ot.prp. No 5th@item: Spokesperson for Saka, Karin Andersen, has done some good for the committee. She has done a clean and thorough job, and the Centre Party shares its assessments in this matter. Work with Ot.prp. No 5 has given experience that can be characterized as both a teaching and a fear-taking – a teaching because the committee has gained insight ‘back curtain’ when it comes to conversion into a state enterprise, and alarming because that department has failed and displayed an unacceptable attitude towards them as more than anything, and has also brought forward a far too easily-wieldy case for the Storting. Open listening and subsequent exchange of letters should be unnecessary in order to obtain the necessary clarification when it concerns the rights of those added to the reservation and not to switch to the new company. One should especially expect better from the government council that has signed its own conversion agreement. It has been said both from the government council and from the government party now that the same formula for waiting wages has been used in Ot.prp. No 5 as in other transformation cases. A look back at Mesta, Avinor and AFI shows that decisions were taken in the budgetary context of all three companies. The implementation took place a good year later for Mesta and Avinor, and a good half a year later for AFI. This means that one had a completely different opportunity to clarify the tasks over time, clarify the possibilities for them to be added to the new company, and also clarify the current options for those who chose not to follow the above. It also means that all the tasks were transferred in these companies. The centre party has no desire to have the most possible waiting pay, but this case has shown that tidy processes are very important to ensure that the most possible of them add both an economic foundation and, of course, a job in the new company or tasks of what had to be left in the department or in other state activities. Very important, I would like to say it is at a time when we know that unemployment is high, and we are talking here about an activity with many so-called older workers. There have been allegations today that someone weakened the company with their statements, that someone was talking about the company's values "down". Then let me say that in that case it must be the department and the government party that has been in charge of it. The tasks of the new company have not been clarified in the budget proposal. Nor is it clear how much crew they need, in addition to the fact that the crew in the new company can be half of what the State Consultant has today. There is a big difference between the processes in this case and in other cases, and there are two different committees that have dealt with these two matters that concern State Consultant. I actually think it has been both useful and important, especially when we're dealing with a government that doesn't see any limits in relation to the competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e305	I record that the representative Apelthun Seele calls this case a storm in a glass of water. No, it's not. It is very rare for the Storting to have to organise open hearings to clarify the legal status of a case for treatment and to obtain correct information. The discussion in this case has not essentially concerned the rights of those who change to the new company. The discussion has focused on the rights of those who will not be included in the new company. And then it is alarming that the Department of Proposition has stated the following: «The right to a waiting wage will fall away.» It is hard to understand that the remaining employees would not be entitled to a waiting wage. This is wrong. That's why Stortinget has responded to this statement. Therefore, there was also an important clarification during the open hearing, where the Council of State stressed that the wording was to be understood so that it was absolutely not such that the right to a waiting wage would be lost, but that the right to a waiting wage was retained, so that it could be sought and resolved individually. In addition, statements from the Ministry had to be understood in such a way that employees could rely only on State consultants such as the employer and not the general government — even in that case, they would have been misrepresented. Otherwise, when referring to other transformations, it is important to remember that the consequences of this transformation go beyond too many transformations — not to say all the other transformations. This is why, among other things: Professor Jakhelln stressed that the right to submit to the State, and not just to State Consultant, is so clear here. So the representative Apelthun Selle said that the employees can choose on the top shelf. No, they can't. The employees of the new company do not know what pension rights they have. They don't know if they want AFP rights. They don't know what will be the situation after three years. These are, of course, moments that they have in their assessment. Then we get to hope and assume that the new company clears up the question of pension, the question of AFP rights, etc. But it's per. today not clarified. The setting Odelstinget today has for discussion, contains strong criticism. One thing is that a majority of the committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, states that it is perceived that the Stortinget has been ‘viled’. I stress: it is not a claim that the Council of State has deliberately misled, but a claim that the Storting had to understand the wording differently from the content of the Council of State now gives the wording. At least as essential – not to say stronger – is that a majority, including the Advance Party, speak out very critically, and I quote: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, are very critical of the approach of the Ministry of Labour and Administration towards the 140 employees of the State Consultant. The majority believe that the Ministry must take much of the main responsibility for the noise arising from the treatment of the transformation and the rights of the employees.’ I assume that the representative Sandberg knows the wording, because I guess he has formulated it himself. However, I register that, among other things, Mr Sandberg asked questions about the wording of Section 2 of the Act. I can't see that there's any eye-catching in Section 2 of the Law. With the exception of the time limit set, this is a legislative formula which confirms what emerged at the open hearing, namely that those who are officials of the administrative organ may reserve the right to transfer their employment relations to Statskonsult AS – it was clearly established at the open hearing – and furthermore that this right of reservation also implies that there is a right of pre-emption for other appropriate positions in the state, and one has the right to be assessed in relation to waiting wages, as stated in section 13 of the Staff Act. 6th@item: inlistbox After all, when a majority of the committee has found it necessary to incorporate it into the law itself, it is due to the vagueness that has existed and to clarify the understanding that the majority of the committee has used here. However, it is strictly subject to existing legislation, as confirmed by the Council of State in the open hearing. Finally, I would strongly urge the Council of State to give employees a little longer time, a little more reasonable time, on how to deal with the transformation process than the very short time they now have at their disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e327	Let me first say, even though it's really not very relevant, that I take the criticism from the Workers' Party particularly personally, since it comes from a party that I have always considered responsible, and that has followed the exact same procedure myself. But you learn along the way in your career. But that's not what I wanted to address, that's the question of what this case is about now. It is now about the employees of the State Consultant and their future. The size has supported the conversion of State Consultant from 1 January next year, which means that the limited liability company will be established with effect from 1 January, and that the governing body Statskonsult disappears with effect from 1 January next year. Then the matter that we have advanced to Stortinget, the rights of those who join State Consultant AS. That means – and I'll admit it – that the statement in the proposition may have been short and may have been buttony and may have been too buttony about the rights of those who don't go over. But they are not the ones we have proposed. We have calculated that perhaps the knowledge of the Civil Service Act was reasonably general in the bodies that have adopted the Civil Service Act. Then the question is what position the employees are in if the Storting now decides it seems that the Storting will adopt, the preference and the waiting salary for those who go over to the public limited liability company Statskonsult. They are faced with a choice: they can make a reservation, or they can accept a job in the new limited liability company. There is agreement in Stortinget that if they make a reservation, they have to expect to be cancelled. They will be paid for the period of notice, they will have the right to take priority over job vacancies in the State, and they will be able to apply for waiting pay and be individually assessed. But it's our assessment, and there's not many in the room who have expressed anything else, that the probability that they're going to get a waiting salary is small. That's the one choice. The second option is to join State Consultant AS and accept the offer. Then they get a job – the first thing they won't get by making a reservation. This job is said to be insecure. But there's an economical height in the Statskonsult, in the opening balance sheet, so there's going to be room for a downboard of up to half. That doesn't mean it's a prognosis that half of the jobs are gone. But it's taken economically into account that it might be a downtime of as much as half. If they do, they will be terminated in the course of the three-year period. In that case, they will be paid for the period of notice, the right to take advantage of other jobs in the state, they will be able to apply for a waiting wage, and the probability that they will then receive it is very high. As far as I can see, that means that those who choose to join, get all the rights they would get if they reserved, and they would lose a lot of offers that they would keep if they joined. That choice cannot be very difficult. It's a kind of choice that most of us would be able to make in a 14-day period. They get a job offer in Statskonsult AS with subsequent rights. Most people who receive a job offer in society get nothing more than a week or 14 days to say yes or no to that job offer. That's what this case is about. Then I hope that the noise around the case has not led to the employees of the State Consultant having a different picture of what the option involves, than what I now summarised, and which I have the impression of is in accordance with what everyone in this Chamber actually means.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e349	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e352	The added members have a very short time to decide on the question: Should I join the new company, or should I quit? Therefore, there is an expressed wish, at least from the Workers' Party, that any reservation may be made over a longer period than that to which it is posted. It's a fairly heavy and difficult decision to take within the time limit set by the ministry, but I'm going to register what the Council of State said in its article. So to the question of who is going to pay the rent. We believe that it should be opened so that the state can cover the maintenance costs also in this conversion, as was done in the case. the transformation of the manufacturing activity into the State Road Administration and as was done in the conversion of the Aviation Administration. Why is it not possible for the Government to add to the same situation during this transformation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e359	The answer to that question is very simple. It is in order to prevent exploding employees from being an easy way for the new State Consultant to manage structural adjustment. We believe that if it is possible for Statskonsult to disembark and send the bill to the state, there is a much greater risk that there will be large and rapid redundancies, and thus the expulsion of workers, than if the State Consultant himself has to bear the costs associated with the expulsion of employees. So our goal is to get as much opportunity as possible to expand in Statskonsult, and if there is a need for a deboarding, we want Statskonsult to have incentives to try to help them out in other jobs, rather than simply flipping them over to wait pay. Therefore, there is a principle that the Government wants to follow in all matters of this kind.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e364	Based on the contributions of the representative Schjött-Pedersen, what is contained in the proposal of the majority of the Committee on Section 2, so I would like to challenge the Council of State on the following: What does the Council of State think will be the situation if that proposal for Section 2 is adopted? Who is then legally considered to be an employer during the reservation period? Will it be the Ministry of Trade, or will it become the Company of Shareholders? Who then becomes the head of staff, or responsible for wages and employers' duties during this period? I see that the bill contains no instructions on the situation we are facing. Is the consequence that he can deal with the State as his employer, or does the bill mean that the State as such can provide the appropriate official with work in other State activities? What is the Council of State's assessment of the §2 proposal behind it by the majority of the Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e369	Now the council is not a lawyer, so he does not want to express his personal assessment of the proposal. But I have asked the lawyers in my own department to look at it, and they say that it is, to put it mildly, very unclear what follows from the proposal for Section 2, especially because it does not seem that the proposers have taken what I said in my post, namely that per. On 1 January next year, the Administrative Board of State Consulting, which is their business, will have ceased. These include: a very unclear question about the proposal in that case means that they have internal pre-emption of all positions in the country. Or does that mean that they want normal external preference? It is very unclear who will actually be their specific employer, and all the other questions such as: The representative Sandberg mentioned, and a lot of things, is undecided. That means that if the majority proposal is adopted today, it will at least, to put it mildly, have created much greater legal uncertainty about the situation than it was before this case started.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e374	The uncertainty about the legal status of this case is unfortunately created by the Government, and it is not that Storting's lack of knowledge of the Civil Service Act is the problem. The problem was that the government on direct questions about this, among other things. on the basis of Jakhelln's investigation in the longest disputed the fact that the Civil Service Act was actually in force. It seemed that the Civil Service Act was suspended for those who did not want to go into an AS. That was the problem. Then the Council of State has made a sort of prognosis, as he calls it sea, for how the outcome is of any legal proceedings that might be raised in the wake of this matter, and the rights that are being triggered, or on which the Council of State chooses not to agree. Yes, it may be that some of the conditions in the evaluations — whether it is an employer to deal with or not — are unclear. Can the Council of State say anything more about the theme that makes us feel more confident that his assessment is the right one?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e379	So I cannot clarify the ambiguity that lies in the proposals of the majority committee. But what I can establish, just to repeat it, is that the governing body Statskonsult stops per. 1 January next year. If anyone could make a reservation, exercise that right of reservation – after 1 January next year, they will therefore be employees of the governing body Statskonsult, and that is where you are employed, even though you can relate to the State more generally as an employer, everyone, including Professor Jakhelln, has accepted that you are employed by the administrative body Statskonsult – who is to exercise the right to reserve? Yes, you have to do it to the governing body Statskonsult, but it doesn't exist. Therefore, the confusion arises: who is the employer, who is responsible for the employer’s function, and not least – and that is much more important – what kind of preference do you have for a second job? Is there any internal preference for all positions in the State? So it's very unclear.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e384	For the last time, it may be appropriate to ask the Council of State to consult lawyers outside its own department, as the Committee now has to do in its work. Then I will take note of the comment quoted by the Council of State in the 2001 throne debate, and what he is basing on when the debt is anchored by them in modernisation work. What causes this process to be so badly anchored compared to the ones added? And how has he intended to follow up the plural comment on a clearer and clearer practice of state information policy towards their advocacy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e391	For the first comment, I just want to say that I have full confidence in my ministry. I have glittering lawyers in my department and I'm terribly happy that I have it. So when it comes to the question, or rather the claim, that this process has been so badly anchored, it hasn't been. There have been extensive processes at Statskonsult, where the organisation in Statskonsult has been involved in dialogue with the management of Statskonsult, as is to be done. In addition, we have had a comprehensive process with the main association in the state, which is the one I'm going to deal with, on the exact same matter. Everyone's on the table. Everyone has been given the expression of their views. Some of those points of view have been taken into account in our final proposal. On some points, we came to a different conclusion from what the organisations did. It's part of a good, open democratic process that you get an outcome that means that someone gets an impact on their views, and someone doesn't get an impact on their views. And then the matter is brought before the House, which is a good, democratic body, and which is to decide it. I think it's a good process.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e398	In the open hearing, the Council of State stated that it was of course the case that those who did not opt to join were able to refer to the State as an employer, as Professor Jakhelln and the law department unequivocally stated. Yes, the Council of State even considered that there was an indirect appearance of the proposition. Therefore, he also stated that they could apply for a waiting wage with individual assessment. There are just statements of that kind of government council today and now have come, which have created ambiguity, ambiguity if he acknowledges that they can rely on the state or only on the State Consultant. The reservation may relate to the State, not only to the State Consultant. Therefore, Section 2 is in line with the clarification made at the open hearing. If the Council of State considers this to be unclear, it should read the opinion of the Legal Service once more. And when it comes to the issue of preferential rights, the Council of State can actually read in its own proposition where it says that those who do not go into the new business have a right of priority in the state. It is confirmed by the law. It does not imply any change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e405	Let me do the last one first. Yes, it's right that they have a right of preference. The question is, would they have an internal priority or an external priority? It's a distinction that the law department draws up very clearly in its letter to the committee. Internal preference implies that the employer is obliged to try to provide them with other work. External preference means that they are only entitled to apply for a post and to take the lead if they are qualified. There's a significant difference. So the question of dealing with the state as an employer. There is no doubt that they have the right to deal with the country as an employer. But as the law department clarified very strongly in the hearing, the question is, What rights are there that result from this? The rights that result from being able to deal with the State as an employer in general are far more restricted than the rights that are attached to the activities of the State in which you are employed. As soon as the State Consulting Board is gone, it will normally be that you have far weaker rights compared to the State as an employer than you do as long as your business is in existence.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e413	President! To a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e420	The President is somewhat in doubt, but Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen has the floor to clarify a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e423	I have to be allowed to refer to the proposition's page 1, where it says that there is some confusion for those who do not want to follow, but they want to have a right of priority in the state. It's fixed in the council's own proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e428	The President must also let the Council of State get to the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e431	The point here is that in extending the law department's letter, everyone should be aware that there is a great difference between external and internal preference.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e436	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e439	It is quite right, as the Council of State says, that there is a difference between the internal and the external preferential right, and the repositioning obligation is an assessment that must be made on the basis of Section 13 paragraph of the Civil Service Act. 1 letter a-c is met. The question then is whether it is an employer to deal with, and there has been some of the debate around this. There is a need for some of the tasks of the State Consultant to be carried out, something still to be done by the State Consultant for the State. There has been some debate about whether the new entity called critical analysis, which the State will establish but which will not be in operation until the end of next year, would in that case be something that could trigger such an internal preference. So there's a difference of opinion about that. In the investigation carried out by Professor Jakhelln for the staff, reference is made to a note of 16 July 2003 to the Council of State in the AAD ‘Transmission of Report, Cost Estimate and Progress Plan’, which reads: ‘It may be appropriate to wait with the establishment of the new body until 01.07.04, because one then will avoid issues related to the rights of employees if this new body is set up at the same time as Statskonsult AS.’ We have to say from our point of view that it is then very clear that the state, through its action in this matter, how to take things in order, tries to circumvent employees' rights. It will be able to count on any case concerning the understanding of Section 13 paragraph. the points (a) to (c), whether or not they have been complied with. Then there has been a discussion about whether it is right that the company or the state should be responsible for the waiting pay arrangements for those who join the company. The council argues that it would be right that the company has this, because then it will have a self-interest in people getting a job. Yeah, but then we wonder why the government doesn't have that interest. This is a company that the state owns and that we all need to have an interest in being able to do. If the state stays on the waiting wage, it must also, at the Council of State, have exactly the same interest in the fact that those who go on the waiting wage system get into another job. So it is absolutely impossible for us to understand why we believe that this should be heavier on this company, which should also be established in a rather tough competition market, than on the Council of State. There remains to be a reasonable explanation as to why this should be so.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e460	Some of the problem in this case is that various internal work notes from the department seem to circulate anywhere other than in the department. I do not know what the reason for this is, but I would like to inform the representative Karin Andersen that the relevant note was presented to political management, who rejected the issue and said that no, we do not use the timing of this establishment as a means of trying to deprive employees of the rights and opportunities of State Consultant. That wouldn't make any sense. So the political treatment of that document was that the whole issue was rejected. With regard to the new critical analysis unit, when and if it had to be set up, I have no doubt that there are people in the State Consultant who will stand strongly in the competition for positions there. There is nothing to prevent them from searching either. And if they're well qualified, they'll get them. Let me also say that if it were to happen with Statskonsult AS, as the critics claim, that this company will encounter an unfading fate rather quickly, the employees of the Statskonsult will quickly lose their job and thus have the right to take advantage of the jobs in the new critical analysis unit. If, on the other hand, what the Government believes is going to work, and as I believe the majority in Stortinget believes, State Consultant AS is going to do well in competition based on the unique competence they have in the public sector, I'm not so sure that there are so many employees in State Consultant AS who would like to work in this possible new unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e467	In actual fact, whether the Ministry has rejected the choice of waiting for the creation of the new unit on a political basis. She can do that. I just want to say that the reason why this comes up is that it's in the investigation done by Professor Jakhelln. That's where this says. Yes, it may well be that the Council of State rejects that this is the case. But how it will be interpreted when you look at the government's behaviour here to make sure that there is no employer to deal with, that's another case. Some of the other assessments to be made are related to whether or not you will receive a waiting wage. There, the Council of State has also gone out with a pretty clear prognosis, which I think it might be an opportunity to dispute. It is true that what is contained in the preparatory work of a law will help to determine how it should be interpreted. It is probably not necessary to submit any hopes, but I think it would have been better to deal with this matter if you had acted on the part of the Government so that you had set up the new unit at the same time as separating this AS. It would then have been avoided to throw the suspicion that you want to deal with matters in an order that will now be argued by the Government that there is no employer to deal with, because these tasks are not ready yet. I agree with the Council of State that probably several of the employees of the State Consultant will be able to apply for these tasks when this unit arrives, and several of them will probably be well qualified to do so. Then there is a big question why the Council of State did not consider it appropriate to do this in parallel, so that so many people had been prevented from being insecure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e480	If you believed in a conspiracy theory where we were going to trick the employees of the State Consultant, I don't think we had at least notified the establishment of the new critical documentation and analysis unit in the state budget. Then I think we'd probably have kept this as a deep-kept secret in the government. On the other hand, what is unclear and unclear is exactly what this unit should work with, the delimitation and the anchoring. We must do so, among other things. see in connection with the experience gained with the establishment of the new Financial Management Centre under the Ministry of Finance, which means that the case is not yet ready for implementation. Otherwise, I just want to say one thing at a time. It is that I have at least relied on being able to sleep well at night on the advice and information I give on the consequences for each employee in the State Consultant of the different choices they make. And I hope that everyone else in the Storing can also sleep well with the advice and guidance they give.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e490	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[Footing, see page 275]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e506	At the request of the Family, Culture and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given to the members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It'll be taken as a receipt.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e515	The size has previously decided that the revenues of political parties shall be published. This shall be done to prevent lots from secretly receiving gifts from businesses and individuals which may give rise to allegations that financial contributions have an impact on the outcome of individual cases. Odelstinget has previously endorsed its intentions. At the same time, it was decided that the matter should be further investigated by the Government. This investigation shall include, inter alia: address issues relating to the financing of democracy and proposals for amendments to the law on the publication of the revenues of political parties. The investigation has been delayed and, therefore, proposals are now being made that the scope of the law should also include contributions to county and municipal parties and the parties' co-organisations, such as: youth organisations and women’s organisations, at national, county and local level from 1 January 2004. Income means public lot aid, quota, grants from individuals, lotteries, collection actions, etc., interest, grants from institutions, organisations, associations and associations, as well as from foundations and funds. If, during the financial year, a lot receives one or more grants from the same named scheme which together exceed NOK 20 000, the amount and the name of the grant provider shall be entered in the accounts. In the light of the opinions of the various parties in this year's election campaign, I find it surprising that the proposal submitted that this should apply from 1 January 2004 brings together general excitement. I am also amazed at the reasons put forward by the majority, which are made up of the government parties and the Progress Party, which reject the proposal. I expect them to explain their position later. As I consider it, there is no contradiction between introducing this now and simultaneously seeing it in a larger context when the explanation from the government's reduced sample is available. Furthermore, the majority refers to an opinion of the Ministry of Justice that public disclosure of contributions from individuals to political parties may involve interference with rights protected by the European Commission on Human Rights. In view of this, they therefore propose to reject the proposal. After contacting the Ministry of Justice where we addressed this issue, the feedback is quite clear: ‘As we see it,’ they say, ‘it is only if the legislative proposal is adopted retrospectively that questions can be raised as to whether the legislative proposal is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights’. There is no proposal for this to be retroactive. I am therefore wondering whether this is still part of the background of those parties that reject the proposal. I am promoting the proposal of the minority from the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e537	The representative Magnar Lund Bergo has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e540	This is an important principle issue that touches on the core points of our democracy. In Norway, we do not have rules limiting the financial gifts to the parties, as other countries do. It requires the more of us in terms of transparency about the financial grants that the parties receive. It is free for both businesses, individuals and organisations to give gifts of money to the lots. Then it's important that the voters know who's paying. We know that the political authorities at both local and central level are making decisions that are important for different economic interests. In a municipality it may be about the sale of municipal property. These may include regulatory issues, tendering, etc. Then it's important that we know about those inside these rounds, who have also been contributors to the political parties. A few years ago, we had a change in the law that ordered the parties to publish the gifts above a certain limit that they receive at a central level. That law proved to have limited effect because it left a large gaping hole, namely that it is free to grant as large a grant as you want only to the local and county joints of the parties. The hole should be closed so that we avoid the suspicion and questions that can be asked at the local parties. We have heard – especially in Oslo – discussions about the sale of property of municipal properties and questions about whether people have been contributors to the ruling party in Oslo. That kind of question would have been removed if you had been public. And when the parties themselves do not have the propriety to ensure transparency, we must from here provide for a law that obliges the parties to publish their revenues. What amazes me is the reverse operation that the government parties have had in this matter. When Stortinget dealt with the corresponding case the previous time, a unanimous decision was in favour of publication. The Labour Party, SV and the Center Party then wanted to adopt a change in the law so that we got transparency. In that case, it would have made sure that, during the election this year, we had that openness. We didn't get a majority for that. On the other hand, it was decided that the Council of State would come back with a bill for publication at the local level of the parties. Since we've heard a little bit from the Council of State in that way. Instead, a sample has been reduced by the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Centre Party at that time. It's all right, but there's no excuse not to promote a bill and to pass a law on transparency. The broad mandate of the selection to look at the funding of democracy goes far beyond the issue of publication. And the issue of publication does not depend on the setting the sample should promote. We can now adopt this proposal, so that we can remove the doubts of the various parties' gifts of money. The law we have today – or rather the lack of law we have – opens up corruption-like conditions. It allows for suspicion as to the impact of the batches, particularly in relation to the decisions taken. We got this discussion especially in the last election campaign. I find it interesting to see what the committee's chairman from the Right, Sonja Irene Sjøli, said to the Newspaper on August 7th this year. She comments on Oslo Right's lack of transparency about her gifts, and says, "I think in principle that Oslo Right should be open about this. It's the most tidy thing. When questioning the practice, transparency should be demonstrated.’» In Trondheim Right they also kept the gifts secret. The election campaign director of Trondheim Right, Erling Paulsen, said to the Address Paper on 6 August this year: ‘We support proposals for publication and will deal with it when the law is introduced. But as long as we don't have such an agreement with our contributors, we won't publish them." So what the right is saying is that on the day a law comes, they will arrange for publication, but until then they will continue the practice of secrecy. I think it is alarming when the Right in the election campaign said in the media that they are in favour of publication, that they support rules on it, but will not publish anything until such rules are in place, that in this setting they go against it, turn down what they have previously intended, and thus vote against such a change in law. I find that extremely regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e572	Let me start by saying that there must be no doubt that I still believe that there should be transparency about the funding of and gifts to the political parties. It is now a year since we discussed a similar proposal from the head of the Workers' Party and Vice-Chairman, Stoltenberg and Solberg respectively. This time, the representative, Giske alone, is behind a proposal that is slightly different from the previous one. The proposal by Giske is also different from the proposal for which the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Left received a majority in the Stortinge last year. It was the Workers' Party that was most concerned that a sample had to be set up to look at the revenue of the parties. Of course, we respected the majority, and we're willing to wait for the poll. I note with interest that the amount limit in the proposal by the representative Giske has now increased to NOK 20 000. This is in line with today's law, which proposer Giske has criticised in broad terms in the press. I have also noticed a variant of the majority position of the Right, Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Left last year, that support in the form of cash and non-cash contributions has been included, but the special rule on disclosing the total contributions of the social partners has been omitted, as well as the rule that, together with the accounts, there is a declaration that the party does not have agreements on redundancy. I just mention it. I'll refer you to Innst. O. No 28 for 2002-2003. In the vote, a majority from the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Left have a proposal for a number of amendments that the law should contain, which will ensure that the public and the press are fully aware of who is contributing to the parties. And the principle is simple: all contributions from all contributors to all stages of the games are to be placed on the table. It can't be any simpler. The Joint Finance Committee was set up before the representative, Giske, promoted his proposal and is already working. The suspension shall be held in October of next year. A unanimous financial committee enters into the financial position of the 2004 budget in order to await all issues related to batch support and batch financing. The representatives of the Labour Party on the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs consider that they cannot wait for the committee, which they themselves have set up, to come to an end. In the Financial Committee, therefore, the representatives of the Workers' Party believe that they should wait for the selection. It is obvious that the representatives of the Workers' Party have difficulties in coordinating their opinions on their own proposal. We also think that the proposal is a little under-thought in at least two areas. Firstly, the proposal ignores the obligation of the investigative document to investigate the legislative proposal and to pass it on to the community. Both the Workers' Party and the SV use arguments about more democracy and publicity, while at the same time adopting a legislative proposal just above the table, without investigation and without having to express their opinion to the social partners concerned. The second point that shows that the proposal is not well thought out is that the Workers' Party will give the law a real retrospective effect. I am pleased that there is a majority in the Committee to reject the proposal of the representative Giske and a majority to await the vote of the Committee on Budgets, where a broad review will be carried out. I believe that this is the only sensible and sensible thing to do in this context. Adoption of laws is about creating predictability, and it is about having proper processes where those affected are given the opportunity to be heard. Let's make it clear that the Right wants full openness. The representative Giske's repeated terping on the opposite falls on his own unfairness. I'll show you in that context to Innst. O. No 28, which I mentioned instead. The terping won't be more true even if it repeats over and over again.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e593	I have a lot of the same points of view as the committee's chairman, so I'm not going to repeat them, I'm going to add someone. I see this case as a populist election game, a split in the campaign, from Trond Giske who has ended up in the Storting, where it shouldn't have been. I do not understand the entire content of Document No. The 8th proposal, and the position of the Workers' Party, the Central Party and the SV's politicians in the Committee on the examination of the case. What you're proposing is an unnecessary urgent decision on a matter that is actually under work, and where the majority has shown a clear willingness to support the intentions of openness when you get a seriously elaborated bill to the Stortinget. It is also the case that, in my view, the minority's view in this case is very deficient and will create some problems, because there are some very important things about the individual local layers around that have not been clarified. The practical challenges, such as: for the Progress Party and perhaps also for some other parties, a major change of accounting and annual meeting procedures would have to be made to keep a separate income statement certified by the auditor for the calendar year. We, and I think some other parties, have our local team annual meetings in the autumn and thus have another different financial year for the local teams, and that is not taken into account in the proposal from the minority. I don't think it's just the Progress Party that would have had problems with this. In the case of the term ‘auditor’, the requirements imposed on him and the penalties imposed if they are not complied with are also deficient in the view of the minority. Will local laws still be able to have a trusted auditor, or are you required to purchase such a service? We know that in Building Norway, there are party teams consisting of maybe four or five members, who have a budget of NOK 3000 – 4000. If Giske and the representative Lund Bergo are going to order them to purchase state-authorised accountancy services for NOK 5000 per year, that might be interesting. This is not clear. You have not clarified what you mean by a side organisation, nor where the limit goes for non-cash contributions. Nothing has been said about what happens if an independent organisation engages in electoral campaigns with the support of a political party, if it is affected by this. You might be a little bit confused in this area, we're e.g. known that some trade unions have held election campaigns for the Workers' Party. My conclusion is that this proposal is too thin, too little reworked, and that we should wait for the sample work, which is otherwise much more worked through, and not pre-shoot it. There is a broad consensus in the Storting that there should be transparency in this area, and then we have to respect that we take another ten months. After all, it is not an election year before 2005, and then these things will be in place. There is no need to stress this now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e608	This is a debate on openness, but it is also a debate on trust and respect for us politicians. I thought mildly it was alarming that the majority rejected the proposal by the representative Giske. The media debate through the autumn election campaign with special focus on Oslo Right was intended to ensure that all parties went high on the track and signaled full openness and promised full transparency of the party's revenue. The fact that the majority have been appointed by the Ministry of Justice that the publication of contributions ‘may constitute interference with rights protected by the European Convention on Human Rights’, and will therefore propose that this proposal be rejected may be perceived as contrary to what has previously been decided by the Storting. The case spokesperson has done some good for the nominees from the law department on retroactive force. Then I am also very surprised that the Progress Party here follows the government party, especially after the party president has had a very great commitment when it comes to examining both the bread list to the government council Norman and what airlines the council uses. All, and not least the political environments, would have been lit with a more open hold than the huge majority of people now express. It is also the conclusion of the Ministry of Justice, in which they quite clearly claim that, in total, the best solution is that the proposal is adopted this year. I would like the Stortinget to connect to the vision that comes out here. However, I'm a little calmer after hearing the article from the leader of the committee, because she has a part of her article that's totally absent from the setting. It's strange that nothing that goes on openness comes out in the form of a comment from the plural. The representative Knudsen also talks about openness, but there is nothing in the option of openness from the Progress Party or the other parties that make up the plural. So a little bit about local layers, as the representative Knudsen made a big point of. I assume that all local teams have their statutes. We have clarified in the form of a remark that ‘with the «auditor», it may... be ‘elected auditor’.’. Everyone has to provide an account. He must be approved according to the party's statutes. To make a big point out of this I think is strange. My challenge is that the plural is now going for this. It is – as I said in the introduction – a matter that has confidence and respect for politicians and people around us to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e625	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e628	The committee leader says there must be no doubt that the Right wants transparency about gifts to the parties. But the whole thing has its origin in the fact that the Right does not want transparency about gifts to the parties! Oslo Right refuses to publish what gifts they receive. Trondheim Right refuses to publish what gifts they receive – despite the fact that the committee leader here says that the Right wants full transparency about the gifts. Had the Right had provided transparency, this bill would not have been necessary at all. If the parties themselves had taken the initiative to give the voters the transparency of the revenue that the law they once passed had actually meant, we would have released the whole debate. That's not happening. On the contrary, the election campaign leader in Trondheim Right says that when the rules are introduced, you have to respect them – and then you have to publish them. That is why we have to adopt the law. So the chairperson of the Committee refers to the Financial Committee, where it is believed that everything will be done until this committee has finished its work. Yes, it's about the financing of the parties, but that's not what we're discussing right now – we're discussing the publication of the revenue of the parties. This is not mentioned at all in the financial position. I'm standing here with the whole setting, and it's going to be interesting to know if the committee leader can show where in the financial position there's a single word about the publication of the parties' revenues. The requirement for publication is completely separate from where the lots get their money. We actually decided several years ago that the batches are centrally required to publish their revenues. What we have to do now is close the hard hole that means that local parties and county parties can receive several hundred thousand dollars without having to say a single word about it to anyone. Then you go into the details of the bill, which you think is unclear, critical or not good enough – or ‘thin’, as the representative Knudsen said – without affecting it at all in the vote. One has simply not been willing to discuss the law at all in the setting. The only thing you can come with is something about the Human Rights Convention, which no one can explain what it means. We have adjusted the bill so that it will not be retroactive, so if that is what you think, the whole setting is completely irrelevant. Then we talk about something that no one in the committee is proposing anymore. It's possible that's what you're saying, that you're going back in time. The representative Knudsen obviously has not even read the cancellation, because he says that it is unclear whether the statutory auditor has been selected, appointed, appointed or authorised by the State. It is black in white in the comments of the proposers that ‘with auditor’ is also referred to as ‘elected auditor’. Nowhere does it appear that a financial year must apply from 1 January to 1 January. It says «Annual accounts». Nor has the representative been fully involved. This is whether or not you want publicity, whether or not you want to oblige the counties and the local laws to publish the revenue. There are three parties here in the Chamber who want it, and then there are some parties in government – with the support of the Advance Party – who don't want it. I also wonder: Where has the Left become in this matter? They do not even take part in the debate on a matter that has been important to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e653	As rapporteur of the case, I have chosen to deal with the comments made by the various parties in the vote. The majority – the government parties and the Progress Party – have split their reasons into two. One is to wait for the investigation to come from the department. That's in itself okay, but Giske has previously explained that there's an investigation that involves much more than what's suggested here. The other one I asked in my introduction instead, namely, whether the publication of contributions from private individuals to political parties might involve interference with rights protected by the European Convention on Human Rights. This is half the reason for rejecting this proposal. Both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Culture clearly say that this paragraph has no effect at all, as it is not intended to give retroactive effect. I asked, do the majority parties view this as valid, regardless of its retroactive effect or not, or is this an argument that no longer applies?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e663	Our starting point is that this is not how we treat laws in Stortinget. So we were to adopt laws in the middle of December that would have started to apply from 1 January. We consider that to be an irresponsible procedure, which I had in mind in my article. The representative of the Central Party is asking what is in our remarks. There we refer to the setting that we adopted in Odelstinget last year. If you don't remember, I'll refer to what it says about what the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Left mean: ‘The amendment should include the following:(a) covering all organisational stages of political parties,(b) including the requirement to account for all forms of contributions above NOK 20 000, whether in cash or other forms of non-cash contributions, including labour inputs and all other inputs that can be converted into a value of NOK 20 000 or more,(c) defining contributors as individuals or legal persons,(d) requiring contributions from contributors who are, or are organisationally linked to, one of the main social organisations to be prepared and presented together, as a contribution from a contributor to one party,(e) requiring that, together with the parties’ annual accounts, no oral or written agreements between contributors and political parties or their elected representatives be made available at any level, and that there is no consensus that can be recognised as a response or expectation of benefits.’; If this is not to want transparency in relation to publishing contributions to the political parties, then I don't know! But we want to have a thorough and good treatment of this. We're not going to make promises right over the table. It's possible the opposition likes to have such a practice, but we don't want to be in it. Now this sample has been set up, the setting from last autumn and the debate on this matter will follow, and then we will get back from the Government a proposal that will follow up the proposals, among others. a majority proposal from last year's deliberations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e693	All good things are three. I ask for the third time: as part of the grounds for rejecting the proposal, the majority of the parties say that public disclosure of contributions from private individuals to political parties might involve interference with rights protected by the European Convention on Human Rights. Do the majority parties still believe this to be valid for the present proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e698	To the representative of Lund Bergo, I have to say that from our side, we do not place the greatest emphasis on what he is asking for in this context, but much more emphasis on the fact that we believe that this is a poorly-worked proposal, that it is actually a sample work on it, that this is anticipating the conclusions that come in this area, and that it is an unnecessary urgent work. The representative of the Central Party began by saying that this was a debate that was about openness. Obviously, the minority would like it to be about openness. From my point of view, there is no disagreement about the transparency of this hall. It's just a question of when we're going to adopt it, whether we're going to have a thorough treatment, or whether we're going to have a little thorough treatment. From my point of view, this is a matter that is not about transparency, but about legal work, and here I think we have done a bad legal work. With regard to the audit problem, which Trond Giske had in mind, he said that I had not read the setting. I have actually also read Document No. The 8 proposal, where Trond Giske does not address this with the audit obligation. I have also read the comments, where you correctly take it up, but where you do not follow it up further in the form of changing the setting regarding the legal text. And that's the text of the law that will always be the most central, even though it's possible to turn to the preliminary work of a law to find a definition of "the auditor". Otherwise, we can probably stand and discuss what annual accounts are, whether there are annual accounts from 1 January to 31 December – it might be interesting to ask the Council of State at a later stage, which has taught this, how he assesses that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e709	Trond Giske has spoken the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e712	It should be a matter of course for 165 people in this room that a law consists not only of the law decision, but also of the preparatory work, in the form of comments, and this debate is also part of it. It's not all the details of a law that you type into the law, and that “the auditor” also means “the chosen auditor” is not something that a person normally enters into such a law. So it doesn't help how many times the representative Sjøli goes to the pulpit and says that the right is for the publication of income. What we need is a decision in Odelstinget that obliges the parties to publish. Nor does it help that the representative, Sjøli, is hiding behind a sample that was actually opposed to the creation of. This is not a matter of intervention – if it is allowed to say so! But now it's interesting that the Minister of Finance, Per-Kristian Foss, has entered the hall. He is the head of the Oslo Right and is fully entitled to speak in the debate here in the Chamber, even though this is not under his department. It would have been interesting to hear if the head of Oslo Right can go to the pulpit and say that yes, I fully agree with the representative Sjøli, now we are also going to arrange for publication. But until that happens, I just don't believe in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e724	This has been a bit of a strange debate, I thought. Here you talk as if you agree to have full openness, but you say to yourself in some way that the time to work out a legal text that's defensive is not here yet, it'll take some time. If we in this room are some about openness – if Right believes that openness is important – they say yes, and we make a decision. We who have been here for a number of years, and those who have not been here for so many years, know that it is good to ask for legal aid from the ministry. Then one gets all of the things in place that one wants to have in place – if that's the problem. Here there must be something else behind it, that the time is not ripe for some – what do I know – but now show that one will, show that here is openness! That's what this is about. And if there's some kind of legal text that's a little bit out of tune, let's make it come back to it and say that here's something you have to fix. This is about openness, it's about making a decision that tells the world around that no party has anything to hide, of gifts they get, of other things they get, and that this is what we are here to clean up, so that no other people outside this hall can say that they have enough to hide, since they don't go in for openness. It is very good to make a decision this evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e733	I thank the head of the committee for quoting the whole decision that the Storting has made. It's a good school for all of us. So I have noticed that the representative Lund Bergo has challenged the plurality once and has not received an answer. He says that all good things are three, so he tries for the third time. Then I too, as the representative of Lund Bergo, try to get an answer as to whether that is what is on page 2, second column, which is the cause of document No. 8:6 is rejected. So a little bit back to the post from the representative, Sjøli. She said that the Right and Grand Prix did not pass laws in the middle of December that will apply from 1 January 2004. It struck her with strength, and then it is alarming what this room is going to do later: what has consequences for the State Consultant is to be agreed here tonight, and it will apply from 1 January 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e744	Sonja Irene Sjøli has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e747	The representative Geske said that we were initially opposed to cutting this sample, but we respected that time was needed to go through this. It now goes against the Workers' Party. They will adopt a bill right above the table. But at least I can reassure the representative Guess that the head of the Oslo Right, the Per-Christian Foss, has stated, in fact, to the press in the fall that there should be transparency. We're too open. There he and I and the representative Giske are in complete agreement, and when the financial year 2003 is over, it will be published who has given gifts to the party. So I don't understand why the representative Giske is so impatient. In a few weeks now he'll get it on the table, so, as I said, it's full openness.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e752	I think there are limits to attempts at suspicion on the part of the Workers' Party. I am referring to the fact that a sample has been reduced to go through this whole problem, and we are also behind it, as the representative Sonja Sjøli has explained. My question to Trond Giske is: Why does the Workers' Party not want to publish what is going on at work, such as, among other things. is made by LO, who benefits the Workers' Party, and also what goes on advertising? There are a number of questions that the Right and the other bourgeois parties, including the Advance Party, raised in the proposal, on which the Labour Party has not gone. We have made it quite clear from the Right that we are publishing these gifts, but we have seen from the Labour Party that there has been no corresponding openness. I think it's a sensible approach that we let the sample do its job, and then we take that debate when it presents its position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e761	The representative Geske is very good at answering for himself, but because of the rules he is not allowed to ask for the word, and that's why he doesn't say anything. When you apply to LO and the funds they give to the Workers' Party and to SV, there is one of the most open things there is. There is a democratic process where one is recording and saying what one is going to give. Everything's open about it. I can't understand that there's any problem, at least there's no problem for the Labour Party to say what we've got. When it comes to work, as Jan Tore Sanner pointed out, I don't know where the representative has it from that we've said we shouldn't evaluate it. Here you have to look at everything. It's openness that's important. If there's anything the representative thinks the Labour Party isn't open, it's just taking it up. We're going to be willing to discuss everything, because it's important to have openness about these things that we've been asked about. It's the Right that has made this a question, because they wouldn't have openness around these gifts they get, and because those who give gifts to the Right, won't stand up. That's what's a problem. Now Sonja Sjøli said that everything was going to be published after 2003, and it's great, of course, that they'll do it. But it is important now to have these decisions taken to ensure that there is openness about this. Later this evening, we will adopt other laws that we jam has rushed through here in the house – it is important to say what we think about it. But we don't have to make it a problem that one couldn't make this law decision today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e773	I ask the government parties for the fourth time: half of the reason for rejecting the proposal is the comment referring to the Human Rights Convention. Is it still part of the rationale, or isn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e778	I think maybe the representative Lund Bergo has put himself on a little siding in this debate, because that's not what's at the heart of the matter. The whole point is that the Workers' Party wanted us to put down this sample. The Labour Party wanted to have a sample that was supposed to do this on a broad front, and so suddenly during a campaign one finds out that now one should make a populist point of this. That is perhaps the closest thing we have been to opportunism in this debate. On the right-hand side, we've said that we want transparency. I now register that the Workers' Party says they want the same thing. Then I also expect that the issues that we have put our finger on in the past, namely the indirect support that, among other things. goes from LO to the Workers' Party, and the value of the services will also be transparent in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e785	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has spoken twice before and is given the word for a short comment limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e788	Just a short, little clarification. As regards the claim made by the representative that individual local teams will be able to choose the accounting period to which they will relate, the minority proposal states that: «The income statement shall be drawn up for the period from 1 January to 31 December.» So that's not exactly what the representative told us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e798	Eli Sollied Superior has spoken the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e801	The debate is taking place – I do not know if I should say to the comical or tragic. On page two, the second column is the main foundation of the multiple. That's what the Justice Department's law department has said. The plural says, "The plural refers to" - and refers to the quote from the law department. Then the representative says that the person who refers to what is on page 2, second column, is inside a siding. Then I'll be laughable. To the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen: we have had this to deal with in the committee. If there was something here that could be done better, just post comments. Then we could adjust it, if that's what it said. My impression after this debate is that there are two visions here. It's a vision that will have full openness, and it's a vision that tries to find reasons for avoiding openness.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e812	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 275]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e828	I would first like to say that this matter is both extensive and complicated, and that it has been dealt with in the Committee under a certain time pressure, because for several reasons it was important to have it dealt with the current year. Ot. pp. No 11 concerns amendments to Law No 10 June 1988. 39 on insurance activities. The proposal includes proposals for new legal provisions on municipal occupational pensions and proposals for rules on the transfer of insurance contracts. The proposals have been aimed at creating a level playing field in the market for municipal pension schemes which to date have not been subject to specific legal regulation. The proposal contains rules for municipal pension products and is intended to help all life insurance companies to offer pension products to the municipal sector on equal terms. The need for regulatory regulation has its background in the fact that today only the Municipal National Pension Fund is offering a product that is considered to meet the requirements of the main municipal sector contract for funding systems for municipal pension products. KLP offers products where premium costs are offset over the participants in a common scheme. Such a premium calculation system is in principle contrary to the Insurance Activities Act. KLP can do this because they have a derogation from some of the rules of the insurance business law. The legislative proposal is based on the proposal in the Commission's unanimous investigation. The Banking Law Commission has adopted an approach whereby all suppliers of insurance products should be able to offer municipal pension products complying with the requirements of the main contract. The proposal also contains rules on the right to transfer accumulated funds relating to collective or individual life or pension insurance. The competitive situation was put on the agenda when eleven municipalities that moved their pension schemes from KLP to private life insurance companies in 1999 were sued by the Municipality Association. The judgment of the Labour Court was delivered on 8 October 2002 and the eleven municipalities were given a deadline of 1 July 2003 to ensure that their pension schemes were in line with the main agreement. Some hearing bodies have asked questions by imposing the main tariff agreement as a premise for legislation and not vice versa. To this end, the Banking Law Commission was not bound by its mandate and was free to assess different instruments for achieving competition in the municipal pension market, but chose a solution based on the Main Tariff Agreement. This is a complex case, which contains a wide range of technical assessments, but the solutions proposed by the Ministry, which is broadly in line with the recommendations of the Banking Commission, have been supported on most points by an overall committee. On some points, the Committee has been divided into a majority and a minority. With regard to the requirement to align contributions in wage and G regulation, a majority of the government parties and the Progress Party propose that this requirement be waived and that it be voluntary, so that pension providers who wish to practise a level playing field are free to do so. The Committee has also been concerned that a revision of the transfer agreement with the State Pension Fund will be carried out as soon as possible, preferably before the start of the tariff negotiations. The Committee is pleased that the Ministry will ask the Banking Law Commission to examine the issue of the establishment of inter-municipal pension funds and to ask for such an investigation to be given priority. The Committee considers that it can be a good solution that even state-owned companies may have public occupational pensions with gender and age-neutral contributions in private companies and that the Government should examine the proposal further. The majority of the Committee welcomes the fact that the legislative proposal will facilitate the transfer of life insurance and pension contracts to another pension provider and considers that mobility is an important contribution to good and effective competition in insurance markets. I'm assuming that those who make up the different minorities will explain their positions. In addition, I would like to draw attention to two errors in the printed setting: the whole of the note on page 29, under point 2.11.2.2, which begins with the «Committee» and continues with the «majority», shall be at the Committee’s expense. Furthermore, under the Committee's recommendation for amendments to Section 8b-1 of the Insurance Business Act, the first word in the second sentence shall be inserted, so that the second sentence appears as the second paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e866	The President has noted the corrections made by the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e869	The case spokesperson has done well for the law, so I'm just going to take a few points that I think are worth noting. The starting point for this proposition is Document No. 8:76 for 2001–2002, where the Lander’s representatives Per Sandberg, Siv Jensen and Gjermund Hagesetter asked the Government to implement measures to ensure free competition in the market for municipal service pension schemes. In the document mentioned, the proposers wrote the following about the measures that could be implemented to increase competition in the local service pension market: ‘A nearby way to do this would be to legislate against the provision of pensions in collective agreements or individual employment contracts being designed in such a way that they effectively prevent pension schemes from being moved from one insurance company to another’. I am glad that this was not the solution, because it would have meant that rules for competing had been used to counter the workers' ability to secure their pay and working conditions through collective bargaining agreements. The right to enter into collective bargaining agreements is based on the understanding that there is a fundamental difference between the labour market and the markets for goods, services and capital. In most industrialised countries, labour law rules give trade unions the competence to enter into collective agreements with employers or employers’ organisations. Such agreements will necessarily restrict competition in the labour market and tariff agreements in most countries are therefore protected by the competition rules. The exemption from competition regulation is not entirely unlimited. It is worth noting, however, that the EFTA Court considers that age- and gender-neutral premiums are capable of improving the pay and working conditions of those who add and thereby fall outside the EU competition rules. In the setting for Document No. 8:76. The Labour Party argued that if competition in the municipal service pension market was to increase, it should be possible for more companies to offer average premiums than to reduce the conditions for KLP. This is the solution that will be implemented. The Banking Law Commission has based its work on the main tariff agreement and the interpretation of this agreement by labour law. The government has followed up the Banking Law Commission at most points. When legislation is based on the core tariff agreement rules on gender and age-neutral contributions, there is a good basis for opening up competition between companies for community service pensions. But at one point, the Labour Party believes that this law is not good enough. That applies to the calculation of the regulatory premium. The regulatory premium is an essential part of the annual total contribution for municipal service pensions, and that is because of the importance of the key chosen, the contribution reserve or the pension base. The government has proposed that the premium reserve be the allocation key. The Labour Party believes that the law should not prevent the use of the pension base as a distribution key. The working party, together with SV, has proposed that the law should be opened to use both the premium reserve and the pension base as the key for the regulatory premium. In this case, the parties to the tariff negotiations can choose the key to be used to best ensure the objective of age and gender-neutral premiums. We didn't get any more of this, unfortunately. I don't quite understand why the government couldn't agree to this, because they're afraid to go into that the social partners can participate and decide this themselves, that one does not create a law that prevents this, as we do now. But that's the way it is. That's life. We don't get multiples, and that's very sad, I thought. The Banking Act Commission delivered on Wednesday of the previous week proposals for changes to the Insurance Business Act which open up the possibility for life insurance companies to offer gender and age-neutral contributions also to private sector workers. I'm looking forward to getting such rules in place. The reason for this is that with gender and age-neutral pension contributions, pension contributions will not lead to employers not adding older workers and women. Such premiums are therefore a very important contribution to an inclusive working life, and it will be an advantage to have gender and age-neutral contributions in the most possible service pension schemes, both in the public and private sectors. I take this up with me the proposals of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e896	The representative Ranveig Frøiland has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e901	In a discussion note sent together with a new EU directive, it is essential that the practice of having different premiums for women and men should be regarded as discrimination and must therefore be prohibited. It is also the essence of what the Workers Party women have written in the newspaper earlier. This is joyous, the Equality Ombudsman has said to Dagbladet. She has been working on this EU directive. We have been struggling with this in Norway too, and we hope that it will now come from the European Union. It would be contrary to Norwegian law if there were such provisions, said a representative of the Chief Financial Organisation, and that is what we are now discussing. Should companies be prohibited from discriminating, or should the law allow companies not to discriminate? That's the last line the Working Party has put on in this setting. Discrimination will not be prohibited.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e908	We have great confidence in the social partners. We believe that if a law that will not prohibit, the social partners themselves are able to do the work that satisfies this with both age and gender neutrality. We have said that we should not create a law that prohibits this, and we would have hoped that one could arrive at a compromise that everyone could agree to. I believe that the social partners will do very well on their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e913	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e916	The attitude of the Financial Committee shows that there is a great deal of support for the Government's proposal. Thereafter, all life insurance companies may offer pension products to the municipal sector on equal terms and the monopoly of the KLP is broken. The Committee also endorses the Government’s proposal, which will facilitate the transfer of life insurance and pension contracts to another service provider. These rules apply to both municipal and private pension schemes and are an important contribution to achieving good and effective competition in the insurance market. The Labour Party, at least outside this Chamber, has made a large number of the fact that the majority, the government parties and the Progress Party do not support the Trade Union, that is to say the Old Community, in their model of co-ordination of premiums. Now something that's a little complicated, but I wonder if it might still be okay to take our disagreement at this point. The total annual premium consists of ordinary contributions, regulatory premiums, which are intended to cover the costs of annual wage and G-regulation and other non-recurring contributions. So the conflict is about calculating the regulation premium. The majority propose to allow for greater choice in the regulatory premium balancing requirement than proposed by the Ministry. We follow the Banking Act Commission, to which many Hearing Officers have also joined, among others. The central association of municipalities and the main organisation of the financial industry. Life insurance corporations may choose whether to offer pension schemes where the regulatory premium is to be calculated separately for each pension scheme or whether to equalise it for all. Some may argue that separate calculation is not in line with today’s main tariff agreement. If that's the case, you get it even on everyone. The majority do not interpret the main tariff agreement. We're just opening up an opportunity in the law. Not least because the law will also apply to the future and to exempted municipal enterprises, health enterprises, etc., there is reason not to include more in the law than is necessary. The law is adapted to the main tariff agreement, but it is not the basis of the law, and it must not be such that the law has to be amended if the main tariff agreement is to be amended. The trade union in this case, represented by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, wants a different type of freedom of choice in terms of the regulatory premium. They want freedom of choice in relation to the use of the pension base or the contribution reserve as the key to distribution. The majority support the Government's proposal to use the premium reserve. Taking into account the distribution on the basis of pensions, there will be greater and unpredictable balancing effects in terms of the level of costs of individual pension schemes in a joint arrangement. For example, a breakdown by pension basis takes into account: not taking into account that the proportion of the total pension for low pay is higher than that for high pay. This could be done, for example, by: This means accepting in practice that low-wage municipalities subsidise high-income municipalities. This is, of course, a slightly reverse distribution policy. Actually, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party should go against this, as it can encourage municipalities with a lot of low wages to privatise services, so that they were only left with high pay, which the other low income municipalities can subsidize. It's not exactly supposed to be that kind of incentive scheme, is it? In the public sector, there is a good agreement, the transfer agreement. It provides for the possibility of changing workplaces between municipalities and countries without losing service. It is a condition in the core tariff agreement that the pension rights are to be covered by the transfer agreement. The legislative proposal does not interfere with these rights. However, in the light of the new rules currently adopted, amendments to the Agreement should be made and the Committee asks the Ministry of Labour and Administration to start work quickly here. This is important in order for competition to become effective also for exempted public enterprises with limited liability. Finally, equalisation of contributions by insurance corporations and pension funds in competition with each other, which is adopted here today, is something new. It is therefore not entirely known how the new rules will work. For that reason, it might be beneficial to have a comprehensive and systematic review of them once they have worked for some time. I believe that the Ministry is also interested, not least in the light of what Frøiland's representative referred to, that the Banking Act Commission has proposed to have gender- and age-neutral rules in the private sector as well. Then it will be exciting to see how this works in the municipal sector, before we can move on to the private sector. I am pleased that we have also received an investigation for this sector, and look forward to these rules being applied to the entire working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e947	I want to start by going back to the starting point for this proposition and the Banking Law Commission's work, that is Document No. The 8th proposal, to which reference is made, was made by several representatives of the Progress Party. In the proposal, they asked the Government to implement measures to ensure free competition in the market for municipal service pension schemes. The proposed document showed a little more of the traditional lines of division between the right and left of Norwegian policies when it comes to issues of competition in this area. While the Progress Party was most concerned with the statutory prohibition that decisions on pensions in the collective bargaining agreement, or individual employment contracts, could be designed in such a way that they effectively prevent pension schemes from being moved from one insurance company to another, were and are SV, as the Labour Party, stating that the right to enter into collective bargaining agreements is based on the understanding that there is a fundamental difference in the labour market and the market for goods, services and capital. This is not a strange thing. Most industrialised countries have labour law rules that empower trade unions to enter into collective agreements with employers or employers’ organisations. Such agreements will necessarily restrict competition and, in most countries, tariff agreements are protected by competition rules, as the EFTA Court has also ruled. SV expressed in the examination of the proposed document that, if competition in the municipal service pension market was to increase, it should be done by giving more companies the chance to offer average premiums, rather than by restricting the conditions for KLP. We are therefore pleased that the Banking Act Commission has laid the foundations of the main collective bargaining agreement between the parties in the municipal sector and the interpretation of this agreement by labour law. As we see it, the government at most points has followed up the Banking Act Commission, but we need to comment on a few points. We also have some proposals, taken up by the Labour Party, which we think could have made better and even more in line with the principle of age- and gender-neutral contributions. First to the point of calculating the regulatory premium to the common organisation. The regulatory premium, which has been introduced by many, constitutes a significant part of the annual total contribution to municipal service pensions, and that is why it is important what kind of distribution key we choose. The costs are allocated differently between pension schemes depending on whether the contribution reserve or the pension base is used as a key for distribution. Labour law is clear in its judgment that gender and age-neutral contributions shall cover all cost elements of the funding system, as it is according to the model used by KLP. The annual surplus in KLP has covered the overall regulatory premium for many years, and it has in practice resulted in the regulatory premium being distributed among pension schemes in relation to the premium reserve. In recent years, however, the excess in KLP has not covered the regulatory premium, and pension schemes have had to pay in. The distribution key is then the pension basis. SV believes that the law should not prevent the use of the pension base as a distribution key, if the parties to the tariff negotiations believe this key to be best cared for by the measure of age- and gender-neutral contributions. We propose, therefore, with the Labour Party, that the law should open up to use both the reserve premium and the pension base as the key to the allocation of the regulatory premium. I also find it difficult to understand that the government party could not open up and participate in putting such an option into law. The Government proposal, which now receives multiple numbers with support from the Advance Party, can lead to a space between 30 and 45 pst. the premium is not calculated in a gender- and age-neutral way, which could have been arranged by giving the parties the freedom to choose the key with the pension basis. If it is such that a fear of unintended interference, as represented by Heidi Larssen, also suggests to the Labour Party and SV a proposal to assess whether such an unintended effect could have been reduced, or even eliminated, if the gross retirement benefit was deducted from the calculated benefit from the population benefit, the distribution of the regulatory premium was taken into account. So to this with common rules, how large or how small these can be. The legislative proposal proposes that it be possible, but not mandatory, as proposed by the Central Party, to establish joint arrangements in the municipal sector. In this context, it is actually the requirements of the core tariff agreement that determine whether a municipal pension scheme must be created in a joint arrangement or not. Today, there is already a theme and a problem between the tariffs, the size or the size of a collective or joint arrangement. In the worst case, a suspicion may be that, in its eagerness to create many small collectives, the companies will in the long run undermine sexual arousal and age in favour of free competition. But it is clear that even if the laws open up a choice here, the municipalities cannot choose whether they want a joint arrangement or not. They are subject to collective bargaining, as several employee organisations have also claimed in their hearing statements, and are also confirmed by the letter of 11 December 2003 from the Minister of Finance of the Central Party. The Minister of Finance wrote: «As the Main Tariff Agreement is currently drawn up, it is assumed to entail a requirement for the balancing of contributions into the common organisation of the market». We in SV have therefore not supported the Central Party's proposal at this point, also on the basis of the feedback we receive from the trade unions that it is entirely right that it is left to the social partners to negotiate it in the tariff negotiations. So I'll just briefly comment on this with the transfer agreement. Several of the organisations, from both sides, stressed the importance of prioritising the work on the transfer agreement, and should have been concluded at the same time as the implementation of the law. The Committee has also underlined this and asked that work be given high priority and that the changes and clarifications required in the transfer agreement be clarified as soon as practicable, and we have underlined: preferably before the opening of the tariff negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e972	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e975	It is stated in the SV’s decision-making programme that they will ‘propose a ban on gender-differentiated insurance premiums’. I have previously asked when that proposal will be presented. Last time we talked about private insurance schemes in the private sector. Then it was said that what's in the bill is an improvement, so we'll settle for it. This time there is no improvement in relation to the scheme that was earlier when KLP had a monopoly. This is getting worse. Then I guess the answer is that we trust that the trade union movement ensures what is not determined in the law. But we're not going to ignore the fact that the trade union movement can have less influence on some jobs where the services are divided and no longer under a common municipal umbrella, but with small units scattered beyond, and where perhaps the trade union movement does not have the greatest power. Is SV confident that there is no need for an obligation in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e982	Yes, the representative, Mr. Morten Lund, can be absolutely sure that we will follow that the comments and suggestions we make here in this Chamber are in line with our work programme. As the representative pointed out, the bill is not an improvement, and so SV and the Labour Party have put forward a proposal to improve it. And unlike the representative Morten Lund, SV has a fundamental principle to support the rights of the social partners that trade unions have been working on through tariff negotiations for many, many years in Norway. We simply have a division of labour in Norway where the law at the bottom sets minimum standards, and where the parties have been given the right to negotiate in the Working Time Act of 1915 to smooth out and improve the law. So for almost 100 years, we've had the tradition that some areas of the labour market are the parties' responsibilities, and we trust the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e989	Then I would very much like the representative of Grande Røys to tell us in which area the views of the Central Party are negative in relation to giving power to the organizations. If it was so simple that one could just say that when we have strong organizations, then we can not make any laws, then maybe we could do that in relation to temporary employment and other important matters. The center part has not settled on that line. I hope that neither SV will do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e994	In a note, the center part writes that ‘it is not sufficient to entrust the parties to the Main Tariff Agreement with taking responsibility for a gender and age-neutral premium calculation’. I don't share that kind of distrust of the social partners, and neither does my party. The central party has good suggestions in the configuration, but the problem is that they bind up, for example. insurance undertaking having an obligation to offer. We have seen it so far that if the insurance companies do not offer a product that is in line with the main tariff agreement, yes, they do not compete in that market, and it must be free for all insurance companies not to compete on the market. This way that one has regulated working life in Norway and so far in the Nordic countries has proved very successful. And if you start by legislating on all parts of the area that are the social partners' responsibilities, we'll just undermine the authority of the social partners through the tariff negotiations, and it doesn't want to be part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1006	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1009	This bill will open up competition in the market for municipal pension schemes by allowing all life insurance companies to offer pension products to the municipal sector on equal terms. In this case, I believe that competition will mean a lower price, which means lower costs for the municipalities. The proposal also extends the right to use gender and age-neutral premiums by enabling ordinary life insurance companies to establish joint arrangements. The Christian People's Party has long been concerned that pension contributions should be gender- and age-neutral, and the legislative proposal we are dealing with today is a long step in the right direction. The development towards gender and age-neutral contributions has a broad and secure basis, and we can say that it follows a line: the main municipal tariff agreement requires local government pension schemes to be based on a funding system that is gender-neutral and does not act out on older workers. The Labour Court stated in its judgments that KLP’s premium calculation system was in line with the main tariff agreement. Furthermore, the Banking Law Commission has based its draft law on KLP’s practice, and the legislative proposal that we are dealing with is based on the Commission’s draft law. Nevertheless, the main collective bargaining agreement for the municipal sector does not form the basis for regulatory regulation in the field of insurance, but there is clearly a link between the legislative proposal currently under consideration and the main collective bargaining agreement. Even if the bill is based on the CLP premium equalisation system, the cushioning of premiums in insurance corporations and pension funds that are in competition with each other is a new phenomenon. It is therefore clear that there are uncertainties about how the new rules will work in practice. Therefore, it would be beneficial to provide a comprehensive and systematic evaluation of the effects of regulatory regulation after they have worked for a certain period of time. Then a hopeful one will also be able to get an overview of what kind of smoothing has actually happened to these joint arrangements. This bill contains two important elements: greater competition in the municipal pension market and reduced costs for the municipal sector. Secondly, the legislative proposal is a long step towards general gender and age neutrality in pension contributions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1022	First, a small note of the line change with the SV that I had, where it was claimed that it was untrustworthy to want to legislate. Then the question is: why does SV then programme that they want to prohibit gender-differentiated pension contributions? The starting point for the changes that are now taking place was the situation in which the Municipal Landspensionskasse delivered an offer to all municipalities without a pension fund. The pension premium was averaged and was equal to male and female, young and old. Even for people with disabilities, extra premiums were included in the balance. That's how employees' organisations wanted it – as the collective agreement set out. It was a wanted and obvious cross-subsidy that happened. That was not what you wanted to remove, I thought, but the monopoly that KLP had. I thought it was a prerequisite that a new situation of free competition between insurance companies should be based on the same principle of gender and age-neutral premium calculations. The need for action for the benefit of women and the elderly in the workplace has not diminished while this matter has been dealt with in the courts and by the ministry. ‘Guidance of the equality front’ and ‘Grubbing up’ were headings after the presentation of the 2003 Equality Barometer the other day. ‘Seniors are pushed out’ is another repetition. So the government lowers the list in terms of gender equality ambitions in this case. The emphasis is on the technical aspects of this proposition — likely to facilitate multinational companies. This is surprising and disappointing from the parties that make up a majority in the hall, have said about gender-neutral premiums. ‘The Christian People’s Party will work to ensure that private occupational pensions become gender neutral in line with public occupational pensions’, says the Christian People’s Party programme. The SV’s programme states that they will ‘propose a ban on gender-differentiated insurance premiums’. On 3 June 2002, the Women's Movement of the Party of Workers wrote the following in the Newspaper under the title «Ineligible distinction»: «Women's movement of the working party considers that it is necessary to legislate for insurance premiums to be gender-neutral.» The government's proposal means that companies are given the opportunity to offer a scheme in which more than half of the premium is to be calculated on average, while the remainder of the premium is to be determined in such a way that the age, gender and any handicaps are fully offset. It opens up the possibility for a single municipality to form a joint arrangement for the balancing of the premium. This implies a ban on the scheme that KLP had until last year. The working party and SV do not want this prohibition, i.e. they will allow companies to make an average calculation of the entire premium. It's not just the Center Party that doesn't think this is good enough. The Organization of Academics writes: ‘In our opinion, which is in line with the views of the Trade Union, the Government’s proposal will not give gender and age neutrality... The academics want, in principle, the regulatory premium to be balanced and the pension base to be a key factor in sharing.’ On behalf of the 63 municipalities that changed the pension provider before 1 January 2003, the municipalities of Lørenskog issued an opinion stating: ‘At the same time, it is noted that the legislative proposal appears to prohibit parts of the traditional fully balanced product delivered by KLP between 1974 and 2002. The reference group considers that the traditional KLP product should continue to be available to those who wish to do so.’ The centre party is proposing this, but we want companies to compete on this market to be obliged to offer a full equalisation scheme for the entire premium, and where equalisation is to take place within a common arrangement of all the company's customers within the three categories of the scope of the law. In addition to preventing gender, age and disability discrimination, such a system would be appropriate to administer and thus provide a reasonable pension scheme for the sector as a whole. I am particularly disappointed that the SV and the Workers' Party are on a voluntary line, leaving it to the trade union movement to negotiate or strike until the individual municipality makes good enough agreements. I think these abdicate on an important issue of equality where, as politicians, we can determine a fundamental premise. The fact that the Christian People's Party is following the Right and the Advance Party on such questions is no longer surprising. I shall then be presented with the proposal of the Central Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1065	The representative Morten Lund has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1068	The government's proposals are widely endorsed by the Stortinget. This is supported by a recommendation from the Banking Law Commission, which has also received broad support in the consultation round. I guess that also shows the need to be a little bit thorough in terms of investigation. If we look at the political history of the matter, we should not think that it would be adopted with as broad an agreement as it is now. But it has become so, both because the Banking Law Commission has done a thorough job and because the Government has followed up that thoroughness and on most points has also followed up the position of the Banking Law Commission. As a reference to past cases, it might make sense sometimes to spend some time creating consensus. The proposal for which the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party have accepted in relation to the distribution key is a system which the Banking Law Commission in its position actually strongly warns against, so we have not followed. There is also a majority in the Committee, the Government Parties and the Progress Party, who are in favour of a right to vote as to whether a regulatory premium should be equalised on the pension scheme under a common scheme or calculated separately for each pension scheme under the common scheme. The government agreed that there would be a requirement for the balancing of the regulatory premium. The Banking Law Commission, on its side, submitted a separate calculation. The plural sits here on an intermediate solution, an optional option. I take note of that, and I think that is a very practical system. The Committee also asks the Government to examine further the question of whether exempted State activities should fall within the scope of the municipal pension scheme rule. We're going to follow that up. The Committee expresses its satisfaction with the fact that the issue of inter-municipal pension funds is to be examined by the Banking Law Commission in the context of its investigation into the legislation on pension funds. That work will be followed up and given priority by the Commission. Last week I received a position from the Banking Law Commission on access to gender and age-neutral contributions in the private sector. It's an interesting setting, which will be sent out on this side of the year, and where we're not going to spend too much time at hearings, because the issues are already quite familiar. I allow myself to suggest perhaps something less than three months. The number of speakers is limited, and the issues are known from this case. This means that we may be able to pass the case as a bill before the Storting in the current year. I note that it will satisfy the desire of many representatives to also gain competition in this sector on the basis of the same principles as in the municipal sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1079	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1083	As I was in my post, several of the organisations were listening to how quickly they could finish the work on the transfer agreement, and I could not right that the Council of State commented exactly that. The committee also received no very complete answer when we asked questions about it, except that so far no time frame for work has been established. Can the Council of State say two words about the comment that the Committee is behind and about our wish that this should preferably be done before tariff negotiations begin on 1 April?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1090	Council of State Per-Kristian Foss – two words.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1093	In that case, it had to be these two words: To AAD. This falls within the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and Administration. I will ensure that the Minister of Labour and Administration is familiar with the Stortinget's wish for a rapid clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1100	Now it's a government college, so it's possible to say a little bit more that that transfer agreement should come into place. I expect it will be followed up. But then to my question to the Minister of Finance. With regard to gender and age neutrality, when it comes to adding to the municipalities in relation to pensions, some of the trade unions have been concerned that this could lead to one seeing how this development develops being threatened by older women. Customs and clothing, says the representative Heidi Larssen. Does the Minister of Finance think that this proposal now at the bottom does not give any reason to fear that the future will be such that older women workers are not taken into account in this market?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1109	I think I have answered what is right in relation to the transfer agreement. It is under another constitutional responsibility. I believe to remember that formerly present state councils have followed the same principle. But I am absolutely sure that, like most other things done in the Ministry of Labour and Administration, it will be followed up quickly. Hopefully, the Council of State won't get any criticism for being too fast. I cannot see that this proposal should in any way give employers reason to fear or not hire older ladies, as older ladies are good workers. This way of providing insurance offers should be a step towards removing such fears and eliminating such differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1116	The council was very pleased and a little surprised that there was so much excitement about the Government's proposal, and I don't think that's so strange from what has been said in the past from the parties representing the majority in this Chamber. But he also mentioned that it was important to spend time in the ministry, so that the matter was well treated. In Stortinget we haven't had much time. This is a 280-page proposition, and it was assumed from the Ministry that the law would apply from the turn of the year. Does the Council of State think that this is also a good way of working?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1121	The answer is yes. And with the insight that has been demonstrated from this pulpit, it seems that the matter has received a very insightful and good treatment. Otherwise, the representative misrepresented me on the two points where it was possible. I did not say that I was surprised at the consensus, but I said that time shows that it is actually possible to work towards consensus. The other representative was wrong, I should have said that I have spent time in the department. No, you haven't spent time investigating in the department, but in the Banking Law Commission. Although there was also a lot of weight there, it is important that not the time goes by to leave matters alone, but to work out consensus. And that's a good example of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1128	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 276]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1143	The first speaker is Heidi Grande Røys, on behalf of the rapporteur on the matter, who is a member of the Laging House.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1146	The Financial Committee has held Ot.prp. No 15 for 2003–2004. The proposition contains three different suggestions. The initial liability for the implementation of EEA rules corresponding to Directive 2001/65/EC on the possibility of using so-called real value when financial instruments are to be valued in an accounting of an entity. The other liability is the continuation of a transitional rule in the accounting law that opens up the use of the equity method and the gross method of accounting. The third proposal is that Norwegian branches of foreign companies should no longer be obliged to disclose their accounts. In the case of the continuation of the transitional rule, the Committee shall be composed. For the other two proposals, the default settings are split. The European Economic Area (EEA) Directive on real value has as its starting point the real value of different financial instruments to be derived from an entity’s accounting, and not, for example. the price at the time of purchase. Of course, this concern is important. But at the same time, the proposal put forward here means that this possibility is extended to financial instruments whose real value is difficult to measure. While negotiating the value of transactions in a relatively transparent market, it may be much harder to establish a real value of the financial instruments involved. Several hearing authorities have pointed out that this code is being unclear and that in the worst case it can be used to manipulate accounting. It's difficult to see the consequences of the decision we're making tonight because there's not a proper accounting standard in this area. In the EU, the standard is still working on the treatment of financial instruments. It is not expected that it will be completed by the end of 2004. At the same time, it is clear that the Real Value Directive will not be implemented in all EU Member States by the deadline. For example, the United Kingdom will: not implement the Directive until 2005. Against this background, it is easy to agree with hearing bodies such as the Board of Auditors, the Norwegian Accounting Foundation and the LO, which have all wished to postpone the processing of this matter so that it can be seen in the context of the forthcoming evaluation of accounting law and the EU work on accounting standards. However, the government has back-covering in previous bulk decisions when they choose to go in for implementation by 1 January. We, too, in the UK, have taken part in that decision. However, there is reason to point out that, in the context of the examination of this proposal in question, the Stortinget has received a statement of objections to the Directive on real value. Both when the EEA Committee dealt with the matter and when she went through the Stortinget last fall, it happened without debate and attention. When we now have better access to a thorough debate on this matter, the matter has already been decided. This is how, in the view of the Swedish authorities, this case becomes a good picture of the democratic deficits that we believe are in the EEA Agreement. When a postponement becomes difficult due to the consideration of previous decisions and EEA obligations, we are surprised that the Government has not chosen a most limited implementation of the Directive. Since the legislation we are adopting today is only a temporary legislation pending the overall review of accounting law, and since it is also unclear what the scope of the decision is, a minimum implementation would be sensible. SV agrees with the Government that the new legislation should not be applied to company accounting. We believe, however, that not all group accounts, only the accounts of listed companies, should be covered. The Directive opens up such a restriction and SV, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party are behind this proposal. The arguments that exist for the rapid processing of the Real Value Directive do not apply to matters relating to the public domain of branch accounting. The EU Directive which prohibits such disclosure is from 1989 and has our EEA case for 11 years without being implemented in Norwegian legislation. That the government now suddenly gets such a hurry to implement this obligation, is very strange given the upcoming holistic review of accounting law. We believe this matter has become more remarkable than what she has been given with the special hasty treatment she now has our subject. So the change means that branches of foreign companies in Norway are no longer required to publish their accounts. This means that the addition, media and public awareness are otherwise linked from important information on the state of the Norwegian business community. So while the debate in the wake of the big accounting scandals internationally has been about the faith for more openness and transparency, we are going in the opposite direction. It's negative in our view. Moreover, the disclosure should not be related to the company's corporate structure, as is the case when branches of foreign companies have been proposed as exceptions. For example, if the branch: had been an AS, the company had an accounting obligation, reporting obligations and public service obligations. The proposal therefore invites you to ‘adaptations’. SV is against reducing the transparency and openness of branch accounting. We are in that area with the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party to think that at least this matter should have been postponed. We will vote against the changes in accounting law § 8-1. With that, I would like to address that proposal SV together with others has advanced in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1169	The representative of Heidi Grande Røys has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1172	The representative Heidi Grande Røys has done well for the cause, and the Labour Party can also largely support the assessments she made. As the representative was inside, two out of three subjects were the subject of discussion. There is the question of accounting treatment of financial instruments according to the principle of real value and the issue of public access to accounting documents for foreign enterprises operating in Norway. The Labour Party agrees with the Government that we should make the effort to meet our EEA obligations, if there are not very special and strong reasons for the opposite. But when it comes to the question of accounting treatment according to the principle of real value, we will go beyond the Government in exploiting the ratio that lies here, to delimit it to listed groups, at least at this rate. Because the impact of financial instruments, in addition to market-based financial instruments, cannot be easily overestimated at real value, especially when international standardisation rules are not yet in place. Therefore, there is reason to regret that the Committee has had to deal with this matter urgently before the expiry of the period in relation to this Directive. Both the Norwegian Accounting Foundation and the Norwegian Auditor's Association are in favour of postponing the amendment. on the basis that there is no revised international accounting standard that will provide a clear and unambiguous guidance for accounting and valuation of the financial instruments. They claim that this could result in different accounting between companies and accounting years. LO expresses a general resistance to the principle of a real value assessment, because they think it's easy to abuse. The international accounting standards, according to the information we have received, will be adopted early by the EU in October–November 2004. The second main reason why the hearing bodies want a deferral is that the accounting laws are still being revised. Now 2003:23 Evaluation of the Accounting Act is out of the question and the proposed changes in Ot.prp. No 15 must in any case be assessed in the context of the treatment of accounting laws. Of course, questions can be asked about the consequences for unlisted groups if they do not have access to the proposed accounting arrangements in 2004. But all in all, the Labour Party finds it most justified to limit this as far as possible in this round, and then we come back to it when the evaluation of accounting laws is to be dealt with. Foreign enterprises subject to accounting shall draw up a separate branch accounts for operations in Norway. After the current right, these should be public. The government assumes that it is also partly contrary to our EEA obligations to demand such publicity. It is therefore proposed to adapt the legislation in this area as well. It is strange, as the representative Heidi Grande Røys also said, that the Government has now had such a hurry to implement EEA legislation in this area, all the time since 1989 when the EU Directive is and we, as we all know, will consider the evaluation of accounting laws perhaps in the next year. In my view, failure to comply with the public demand has so many unfortunate aspects that this requires a more thorough treatment than the Government is now proposing. One would believe that the care of both the general and the general states that accounting for all units operating in Norway, which have been added to Norway, should be governed by the principle of publicity. It is also unfortunate that publicity should be linked to the corporate structure of the company, as is the case when branches of foreign companies are proposed separately. If the branch, e.g. had been an AS, the company had an accounting obligation, reporting obligations and public service obligations. The proposal can therefore be invited for adaptations. The Labour Party believes that we should allow ourselves sufficient time for this issue to be taken in conjunction with the distribution of the Accounting Act Committee and, as SV, will vote against the proposed change in Section 8-1.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1193	It is generally important for Norwegian industry that we have legislation that is up-to-date and in line with international legislation. This also applies to accounting rules. Norwegian companies should report in a comparable and comprehensible manner in relation to foreign companies, in relation to business relationships, owners and financial institutions. Adaptation of the Accounting Act, as proposed in Ot.prp. No 15, also follows from the EEA Agreement as regards most points. As regards the treatment of financial instruments, the proposal provides for access, but not an obligation to assess financial instruments at fair value in the financial statements. Access is granted only for consolidated financial statements and is independent of whether or not the financial statements are listed on the stock exchange. The amendment shall take effect on 1 January 2004. This proposal is a limited and temporary solution until consideration has been given to the Accounting Act Committee’s investigation, NOU 2003:23 Accounting Act evaluation. In this treatment, the final and complete assessment is made in relation to the use of fair value for financial instruments in the accounting context. The parties to the Government support the gradual introduction of the legislation so that companies are given time to convert the procedures until this becomes mandatory. Government lots also share the assessment that the proposed changes make the information in the accounts more relevant. Fair value for financial instruments provides more accurate information than historical cost, given that fair value is measurable. As regards the basis for valuation, the International Accounting Standard applies to IAS 39. This will be the starting point for the Norwegian accounting practice in this field. The fact that this standard is now at issue does not prevent it from being taken into account for as long as it applies. Government parties consider that it is appropriate that unlisted groups also have the possibility to use this legislation, because in many contexts some such groups have the same need to comply with international legislation as the listed companies. Such access will also facilitate the preparation of stock exchange listings by companies. As regards the change in disclosure law of branch accounts of non-resident enterprises in Norway, this is a change resulting from the EEA obligations. There is no doubt about what is the current EEA legislation in this field. The EEA rules clearly prevent us from requiring non-resident enterprises in Norway to publish branch accounts for the Norwegian business. We have to adapt to that. On the other hand, companies with a branch in Norway are now required to submit and publish their business accounts to the Accounting Register and must do so in the relevant languages, namely Norwegian, Danish, Swedish or English. We therefore insist on the principle that accounting documents should be publicly available. I would therefore recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1210	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 283]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1226	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 285]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1242	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 286]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1257	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 287]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1273	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 291]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1281	The Odelsting should then be ready to vote on the matter no. 1 to 8 on today's map. For the sake of order, the President will draw attention to the fact that the regulatory time for the evening meeting is over, but will propose that the meeting continue until the current map has been finalised. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1290	During the debate, Hans Kristian Hogsnes, on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, put forward the proposals No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1325	For § 2 and § 3, last sentence there are divergent proposals, no. 1 and 2, from the right, the party of progress, and the Christian party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Section 2 shall be replaced by the following:This law shall apply to employees of the administrative body Statskonsult, who, in the event of the conversion of the administrative organ into a limited liability company, transfer to that limited liability company.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The last sentence of Section 3 shall be replaced by the following: Any maintenance costs shall be borne by the company itself through the reimbursement obligation.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1357	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1367	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1374	During the debate Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, put forward the following proposals: ‘Decision to the Act amending Law No 22 May 1998 30 on the publication of the revenue of political parties. 30 on the publication of the revenues of political parties is amended as follows:§ 1 is replaced by the following:Political parties registered under the Election Act § 5-1 and listed as last elections, county or local elections, obligations to produce annual accounts of the revenue of the main organisation of the party, county and local council. The same shall apply to the co-organisations of these lots at national, county and local level if they have received contributions in excess of the amounts referred to in Section 2. § 2: The income statement shall include information on the following types of income:1. Public lot aid2. Quota revenue3. Subsidies from individuals, lotteries, collection actions, etc.4. Interest receivable5. Grants from institutions, organisations, enterprises, associations and associations, as well as from foundations and funds. If, in the course of the financial year, a lot receives from the same named grant holder one or more grants totaling more than NOK 20 000, the amount and name of the grant provider shall be entered in the accounts.The total amount of anonymous grants and the amount of each grant shall be disclosed in the accounts. All forms of aid are regarded as contributions, whether cash or other non-cash contributions, which can be converted into a value of NOK 20 000 or more.§ 3 is replaced by the following:The income statement is made for the period from 1 January to 31 December.The income statement shall be signed by the leader of the party, county or municipal party, containing a statement that the lot has not had any income other than those indicated and shall be approved by the statutory auditor. For party side organisations, the income accounts shall be signed by the head of the organisation, county or local government.§ 4 shall be replaced by the following:The accounts shall be sent to the Size, County Council or Local Council no later than 6 months after the end of the financial year.IIThe law shall enter into force on 1 January 2004.» Alternatively, between the proposal and the referral by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1464	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Ranveig Frøiland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposals No. 3-5, from Morten Lund on behalf of the Centre Party and the Coastal Party Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the impact of using the gross old-age pension benefit less the estimated benefit from popular security as the key to the regulatory premium, and asks the Government to come back on its own.’ The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1564	Here a correction has been made by the rapporteur of the case: Section 8b-1 introduces the first words in the second sentence, so that the second sentence appears as the second paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1593	There are four different proposals here. That is proposal No. 1 by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, and the proposals No. 3–5, from the Centre Party and the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘In Act No 10 June 1988 No 39 on insurance activities, etc. [[municipal pension schemes]] the following is amended as follows:Section 8b-6, fifth paragraph, the following shall be replaced by the following:A joint arrangement shall be made each year with regulatory premiums equivalent to the sum of annual regulatory contributions under the second paragraph of Section 8b-5 for all pension schemes included in the common scheme. The share of each pension scheme in the total regulatory contribution to the common scheme is calculated on the basis of the ratio of the total amount of the contributions or the total amount of the pension base for each of the pension schemes at the time of the adjustment of the pension entitlements. Service costs can be calculated and charged separately for each pension scheme.» Proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Coast Party, says: ‘The first paragraph of Section 8b-6 of the Insurance Act shall be replaced by the following:Life insurance companies providing municipal pension schemes under this Chapter shall establish joint schemes consisting of several pension schemes, in order to determine the contribution of individual pension schemes to a common scheme by calculation based on principles that would discourage the different pension costs of individual members for similar pension entitlements from the sex and age of their members.’; Proposal No. 4, from the Center Party and the Coast Party, says: «The second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 8b-6 of the Insurance Act shall be replaced by the following:All municipal pension schemes in each of the categories a-c of the first paragraph of Section 8b-1 established in the life insurance company shall form part of the same joint arrangement.» Proposal No. 5, from the Center Party and the Coast Party, says: ‘In Act No 10 June 1988 No 39 on insurance activities, etc. [[municipal pension schemes, etc.]] the second sentence of the fifth subparagraph of Article 8b(6) is amended as follows:The share of each pension scheme in the total regulatory contribution to the common scheme is calculated on the basis of the total pension base of each of the pension schemes at the time of the adjustment of pension entitlements.» The first paragraph of Section 8b-6 is replaced by the first paragraph of the vote and the proposals No. 3 and 4 from the Center Party and the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1637	Then there is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, to the fifth paragraph, second sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1647	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to the fifth paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1658	Finally, the fifth term of the setting is matched.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e1669	The other paragraph of the paragraph is addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e2025	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e2035	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e2042	During the debate, Mr Røys has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e2100	There is an aberrant proposal from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 17 July 1998 No 56 on annual accounts, etc. The following amendment shall be made:In the consolidated financial statements of listed companies, financial instruments other than those referred to in the first subparagraph and commodity derivatives may also be assessed at fair value when fair value can be measured reliably.Funds for changes in value shall be equal to carrying amounts of financial instruments that are not profit or loss under the second subparagraph of Section 4-3.The Ministry may provide detailed provisions for the accounting of financial instruments and commodity derivatives, including those financial instruments and commodity derivatives that cannot be measured at fair value.IIAmendment under I enters into force on 1 January 2004.» [[Accounting Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e2214	Here, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party have announced that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e2270	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e2281	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e2406	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e2416	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e2543	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e2553	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e3096	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e3106	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e3146	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-lower.ana.ud816e3156	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
