ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e76	The representative of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e79	On behalf of the representatives of Kjetil Bjørklund, Lena Jensen, Karin Andersen and myself, I would like to propose a ban on the use of white phosphorus smoke grenades in Norwegian shooting areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e84	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e98	The annual report of the EOS Committee for 2002 shows a significant activity. 24 inspections have been carried out, five of which are carried out to different parts of the country. The Committee has noted with satisfaction that the relationship between the sample and the various services has been characterised by good cooperation and that the checks could have been carried out without obstacles or difficulties of any kind. The committee received 28 complaints in 2002. This is a certain, but not a strong, increase in comparison with 2001 figures. Of these matters, the selection finds the basis for criticism in just a few, which we have reason to be very satisfied with. In the case of PST, this service operates with and has to operate on two types of registers – on the one hand, a register referred to as a prevention register and, on the other, a work register called a work register. The register of prevention cases shall be evaluated annually, while, following a provision introduced in 1999, the work register shall be evaluated after five years and, as a general rule, the information contained in that register shall be deleted if no new information has been generated since registration. It may appear that procedures are not yet in place that adequately comply with this provision. The Committee has taken note of the Committee's assessment of the situation and assumes that the Committee will be kept informed of the progress of the forthcoming annual reports. The Committee shares the selection's assessment of the need for systematic control of the provision of personal data by the PST to cooperative services abroad. This means that such information is recorded and documented in such a way as to allow verification of the basis on which this information is provided. With regard to the possible cooperation of services with non-resident services on Norwegian soil, this imposes specific requirements on compliance with basic procedural principles, respect for privacy, the full control of the activity by the Norwegian authorities and the verification by the established control body of the basis of the activities. The Committee took note of the evaluation by the Selection Board of the practice of the task of directing the control of foreign residents and assumes that the Ministry of Justice is making clarifications on these tasks in new instructions for the PST. The Committee takes note that there is no basis for supposing that registrations have been made on an ethnic basis or that such registrations are made on the basis of political activity or position. In the case of FO/S, the sample points to lack of legislation and unclear guidelines in certain areas. This applies, inter alia, to: obtaining additional telephone information in the case of clearing cases. This concerns the refusal of clearance due to economic circumstances and also transparency relating to clearing issues. The Committee assumes that these conditions will be resolved as soon as possible and expects the progress of this work to be commented on in the forthcoming Annual Report. The committee also addresses issues relating to the revocation of the safety clearance previously mentioned and indicates that this matter is being dealt with by the Control and Constitutional Committee. This relationship is now treated as a matter of its own, and I therefore find no reason to go further into this. The services that the EOS Committee controls have very important tasks for society. They must have the freedom of action necessary for them to carry out those services, while at the same time keeping the activity within the limits laid down. The people's confidence in the services is important, and I think that's the basis for claiming that this trust is now essentially present. This is due not only to the services themselves but also to the work of the EOS Committee and the manner in which this work is carried out. The integrity of the committee, its systematic approach to the problems and its factual reporting provide significant security and trust to both its sponsors and I have also understood about the services. For our part, we have no comments on the sample's assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e124	The annual debate here in Stortinget, based on the opinion of the EOS Committee, provides us with a good opportunity to debate the framework conditions for the operation of secret services. Based on the experience we have now for some years with the EOS Committee, I think we can conclude that in Norway we have gradually found a very good model of parliamentary control of the secret services. Having said that, I nevertheless think there is reason to stress that, through the political treatment here in the house, we must at all times be vigilant in order to approach assessments that make it difficult for the secret services to do the job that they should and should do. I think the rapporteur's assessments of the importance of the secret services were good and reasonable. I would like to comment on a few of the issues raised in the annual report from the EOS Committee, which has also been commented on by the Committee. One relates to the so-called ABCDE conference under the direction of the World Bank, and I would also like to link some words to the theme of the claims on the monitoring of co-workers on an ethnic basis. First, in relation to the so-called ABCDE conference: In connection with Norway’s hosting this conference under the auspices of the World Bank, there was reason to fear, based on what one had experienced in the near past, for example in Gothenburg, that there could be riots, violence, violence, etc. in connection with this conference here in Oslo. Section 4 of the monitoring report states that checks are to be carried out on third-country nationals. That's why we say in our remarks together with the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party: ‘If the police are aware that persons who have participated in such activity abroad or in Norway are planning to carry out such activity in Norway, it is the police’s duty to stop them from participating in such activity in Norway.’ We are satisfied with the work that was done, and can well view the work as a good work of a preventive nature. Fortunately, it did not go this way in connection with the conference that there was reason to fear, and that is why it should be satisfied. Otherwise, in the near past, there has been promotion, not least in the media, claims of monitoring of cohabitants on an ethnic basis. The EOS Committee has addressed a number of issues in the year that went on to assess this theme, and has concluded that these claims have not been found, at least not in the present time. I'm very happy that a unanimous committee joins it and says that you ‘takes note that studies carried out by the EOS Committee on the issue of possible monitoring of co-workers on an ethnic basis have not at present provided grounds for claiming that registrations are made on the basis of ethnicity or political standing’. I think that can be a good conclusion, and that through it we have been told what should be said about that topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e143	Like the President-in-Office and Martin Engeset, I would like to commend the EOS Committee on the work done and the work done. The task that the Stortinget has given to the EOS Committee through the Control Act only becomes more important and important, not least because, as others have pointed out, the public must have confidence in the important task to be performed by the secret services. The fight against terrorism is international and requires international action and cooperation. There's no doubt about it. But then it is that what is terrorism, and what is a threat to the individual state, can be – and is – shared opinions about. The cooperation of our secret services must therefore be closely monitored. Cooperation with traditional partners is by itself no guarantee that laws and legal principles are observed. After 11 September, new laws have been passed worldwide. It is therefore important that the legislative measures taken do not undermine the protection of the legal certainty of the individual and the opportunities for political opinions vis-à-vis the services built up in recent years. That's at the heart of a rule of law and democracy. The balance between the work that needs to be done to ensure security on the one hand and democracy and legal certainty on the other must not be shifted. That is why the EOS Committee has a very important democratic role. The role of the aggregate is to follow up the comments and criticisms made in the annual report. I want to record something. The first is the case that Martin Engeset also raised. For us, the matter on which we have comments regarding the ABCDE conference was about the request from the Central Unit of the Police Security Service to obtain information about all people, not just foreigners, but about all those who were known to travel to Oslo to demonstrate against the World Bank last year. The level of notification from the districts was modest and the EOS Committee reports that no registrations had been made in breach of the applicable rules or that the disclosure of personal data to the cooperation partners with reference to the conference had been carried out in breach of instructions. That's good. But what SV thought was completely hair-traveling was the request to obtain information about the demonstration in which a lot of work had been done by the organizers to make it peaceful. The central unit also admits that the request asked for unnecessary detailed information about non-violent demonstrators – and I say again: non-violent demonstrators. SV assumes that the Minister of Justice will inform you that this will not happen again. This was also a topic that we had raised during the debate on the annual report of the EOS Committee last year. It must not happen again, also because these kinds of requests can prevent people from expressing themselves politically through demonstrations. We are responding to the request. But what we're even more responding to is that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, through their comment, say that this is OK, that the police security service just did its job. I would challenge the Minister of Justice to say what he thinks about the setting at this particular point. The EOS Committee has dealt with a complaint from the Norwegian Journalist team concerning the PST's request to have the attendance list delivered to a conference held in Alta. The majority of the Committee also took note of this. Here I know the Right Party and the Christian People's Party again, when they agree to point out that the police security service went too far when they asked for this request. The EOS Committee has inspected the Globus II radar in Vardø. It's important that they did it, because there have been press speculations that the radar should be included as part of the planned US missile defense system NMD. The service clarified to the sample why the technical characteristics of the radar do not make it appropriate in the planned system and that no questions have been raised by the American side about including the Global II radars in the system. So far, says the EOS Committee, there are no indications that the requirement for national control is not met. We think that's good. But SV says in the setting that we assume that the Globe radars will not be included in a US missile defense system in the future either. I'm pretty surprised that the rest of the committee won't be ready for this, because it can't be in Norwegian interest to be part of an offensive American rocket defense. The Socialist Left Party proposes that the Storting should ‘ask the Government to investigate how the monitoring and registration resulting from Europol and Schengen cooperation can be subject to national and parliamentary control’. I'd like to elaborate on this a little bit. Europol and Schengen cooperation lead to the provision of information on Norwegian citizens in large and unbridled databases. The Schengen Information System – SIS – SIRENE and, in particular, the TCS computer system with analytical registers, where information on ethnic, religious and political backgrounds can be stored temporarily. I remember the debate on Schengen cooperation, as the current Minister of Justice was also Minister of Justice. At the time, I noted that the cooperation involved the establishment of a monitoring system for the control of demonstrators and activists. This is provided by a Police Cooperation Manual to maintain public order and security, adopted in 1997, which is a handbook on cross-border police cooperation. So what's its content? Yes, all groups, large and small, participating in demonstrations can be monitored and registered in the SIS. It also confirmed the Minister of Justice at that time. This means that it has to be followed with e.g. nature conservationists demonstrating. The manual shall provide information on the routes or routes the group operates or arrives, meeting places, locations or any breaks along the way. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice how the registrations made as a result of Europol and Schengen cooperation are subject to national parliamentary control and whether one is satisfied with what is known about it. With the knowledge we have, we believe that an investigation is needed. With this, I would like to address the proposal that we have on investigation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e175	The representative of Ågot Valle has taken up the proposal she has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e178	As regards the general aspects of this case, I agree with the good points made by the rapporteur on the occasion of the case. What I will come back to a little bit, however, is what it may have evolved to be the greatest disagreement on this matter, on which the representative Ågot Valle was now involved, that is, on the ABCDE conference held in Oslo by the World Bank. It is true that SV has been very critical that this has been put into focus, and it is also stated that it is hair-crowding that a request has been made to obtain information about those who might be involved in this. I think such statements are strange. If you go back in history, you can see that similar demonstrations in many places in Europe have led to riots and great unrest. I think it's just what the police have to do, to make sure that they are averting the kind of events and demonstrations that cause unrest, crime, violence and violence. There are also good routine and experience of this type of activity in Norway. You have the mob on Blitz and different other environments that, when occasions take place, are in the streets, demonstrate, throw stones, etc. For not long ago they were right outside of Stortinget. I think we in Stortinget cannot tell the police that they should not have the opportunity to obtain information and information that is required to avert this kind of thing. In that area, at least the Advance Party wants to be absolutely crystal clear and give the police credit for doing what is necessary to avert such things.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e187	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e190	Since the representative Red addresses the history of political surveillance, freedom of demonstration and riots, it is tempting to remind the representative Red that the police have two tasks. The police are to prevent violence, riots and destruction of property and other things that we do not want, but the police are, in fact, also to facilitate good democratic exchange of views, for freedom of expression. We are aware that monitoring for legitimate political activity has previously led to a limitation of people's legal freedom of expression, not by obstructing them, but by the fact that it has been perceived as a great tax to be monitored for legitimate political activity. I think it is alarming that when the central unit of the PST itself says that they have obtained undue amount of information, the understanding of the history of the Advance Party is only about what happened in Gothenburg, and not about the Lund Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e197	I record Hall Arnøy's surprise at our position on this matter. For the Progress Party, it is clearly the most crucial thing to prevent riots, crime, violence and violence in connection with the kind of demonstrations that this is about. It's not a matter of denying demonstrations and refusing people to make their opinions known, but it's a matter of making sure that it happens in proper forms.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e202	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e205	Initially, I would like to point out that, on a general basis, the EOS Committee shows that there have been no particular problems in the control of the police security service in 2002 and that the sample has received the information requested. I think this is satisfactory. The Committee’s inspection activities have focused primarily on issues related to the registration of personal data by the PST. Against this background, it is satisfactory to note that in December 2002, the PST established a computer solution in the central work register, the NCR, which facilitates the evaluation of job registrations after five years. This is in accordance with the requirements of the Ministry of Justice registration file for PST. In addition, I would like to point out that there are rules for the funding of the service in cooperation with the National Archives. Through its inspection activities in the police districts, the local PST team, the committee has found examples of a lack of consistent practice of the five-year rule. I assume that after five years in the future, the requirement for review and evaluation of work records will be followed up by all the PST units, and the necessary measures will be taken in this respect. In this case, it is also natural to look at the establishment and use of so-called work registers in some police districts and the need for annual evaluation of prevention cases, see below. The EOS Committee's reference to these relationships. The international threat picture has led to an increased exchange of information between intelligence and security services in different countries. Effective counter-terrorism and legal certainty may, in some cases, lead to difficult balances. In this context, I point out that the PST has recently established a registration system that allows for a continuous overview of personal data provided to other countries’ services. This will facilitate a good control of the information exchange. Moreover, the relationship with cooperative services will be subject to a specific assessment in the preparation of new instructions for the service. On the basis of the so-called Viksveen case, the Advocate-General asked the Advocate-General of the State in the circular of 30 August 2002 to ensure that their decisions at the investigation stage are formalised with sufficient notoriety, so that there is no confusion about the control area of the EOS Committee. The circular implies a simplification of the control, since the sample may subsequently relate to what is documented when issues arise regarding the demarcation of the control area against the overall prosecution authority. The PST requested, prior to the ABCDE conference in June 2002, the PST units in all police districts to report information on all persons known to travel to Oslo to participate in demonstrations against the World Bank. The EOS Committee’s investigations in the case showed that notifications from districts were of modest scale and, following the sample’s assessment, neither information from districts nor from other sources made registration of persons is contrary to the applicable rules. I take note of this. So I have to say that this conference went very well. It went very well because there was such close cooperation between all parts of the police and the demonstrators that it was entirely possible to make the overwhelming number of peaceful demonstrators succeed. The small coincidences that someone would provoke something else were cut off. First, they were cut off by the demonstrators having a system that kept away, and then they were cut off by close, close cooperation between those who stood for the dominant demonstration wave, and the police, to whom it was invited and laid up. It should basically be noted that this was a success – one should record it as a success. There are situations in other countries where unfortunately there has not been. But it is quite clear that achieving that success is done precisely by the balance of the knife rod, which has been expressed by several members of the committee, and I perceive that those who were responsible for this in the police took note of it and followed it. I know a part of the work done. A lot of work was done to ensure that peaceful demonstrators were not hindered by provocation by those who wanted something else. Those who want to provoke can be found both in our own country and outside the borders of the country. They have their right of expression as long as they do not act with force and strife. They are isolated by massive, democratic mobilization and wise interaction with the police, regardless of the name of the police units. I think we should actually enjoy that in this context as well. There have been different press releases over the past six and a half years where questions have been raised as to whether Samer has been monitored on an ethnic basis in the past and whether it is happening today. The EOS Committee's studies have resulted in the 2002 sample questioning of two registrations of persons with a Sami background. The PST was asked to review these records. So far, the committee has received feedback about one of the registrations. In this case, the PST found that there was no basis for maintaining the registration, and it has therefore been deleted. I take note of this. I also point out that the sample did not find a basis for establishing that the relevant records were made on the basis of ethnicity or that they were registered on the basis of legal policy activities. The sample also generally shows that there is no indication today that Sami membership or co-political activity is itself a basis for registration or other forms of surveillance. In connection with a conference in Alta in February 2002 under the auspices of Barents Press International, it was complained to the EOS Committee that the PST had requested the publication of the list of participants at the conference. In the complaint, the Norwegian Journalist team stated that the PST had infringed the provision of the supervision directive § 4, second paragraph, which does not provide the basis for obtaining and recording information by virtue of which membership of a political or other legal organisation or activity was carried out. In this context, the EOS Committee has expressed some criticism of the behaviour of the PST. The service has taken note of the opinion of the Selection Board and has in this respect proposed to the Ministry of Justice that a provision clarifying the framework, etc., be included in the preparation of new instructions for PST. for the control of travelling foreigners by the PST. This is also a matter raised by the rapporteur. This will be followed up by the ministry. As regards the general question raised by the representative, Valle, the issues under parliamentary control of Norwegian police agencies, including the PST, in relation to the international framework. What is otherwise apparent from transnational cooperation with other countries, we are trying to ensure as much as we can through this cooperation. It is my impression that many of the same legal violations that are under discussion in this Chamber also concern other parts of Europe – one wants to be aware that there is no situation in relation to Schengen cooperation and the registrations that lead to the impact on those not to be affected. That's my general idea, and I'm working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e229	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3335]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e245	The background to the fact that the Storting will today deal with and hopefully adopt an instruction that the Rikssaudition will first request a review of the Ministry of Transport's proceedings on the State loan provided in connection with the establishment of BaneTele as a limited liability company and, secondly, request a review of the organisation of the company and its links with the Railway Agency to assess whether the organisational model opened up unfortunate decision-making processes at the cross-border point between the company and its owner is that the Control and Constitutional Committee per. letter of 23 January this year by the former Managing Director of BaneTele, Trygve Tamburstuen, was requested to examine the role of the Ministry of Transport in the financing of BaneTele and the development of GSM-R as a railway project. In all modesty and honesty, it must be admitted, at least on its own behalf and perhaps on behalf of the rest of the Committee, that it was reasonably soon understood that the conduct of proceedings itself in this matter would be to be justified, since the relationship between BaneTele and the Railway Agency on the one hand and the relationship between the Department and BaneTele on the other imposes stricter requirements than is customary in terms of having the tongue straight in the mouth with regard to legal and economic issues. Tamburstien in its request to examine the ministry seeks to link the questions related to the establishment of BaneTele with the question of the development of GSM-R as a project. However, in the light of the Committee's work on the matter, we have not been able to find that the Storting has expressed any desire for such a link between the formation of the company and the development of GSM-R as a railway project. The latter project is even under examination in the Ministry, and therefore it is not natural for the Committee to carry out monitoring assessments of this project now. However, what is natural to consider is the extent to which the Ministry of Transport has acted improperly as regards the handling and handling of the State loan, on the basis of the decisions and assumptions of the Storting and the consideration of the general interests of the State. I would like to stress that the Committee has no indication of this beyond the letter from the Tamburst, but sees it as natural to look at this issue more closely. But even if the question is addressed, it is not given who is going to carry out such an investigation. I must honestly admit that at the beginning of the committee's work on this matter, I was very much in doubt as to whether a request for the Riksrevision to look at this was the right thing to do. Although it must be considered clear, as explained by the Grand Duchy in the context of the investigation by the Frøiland Committee, that the Grand Duchy can instruct the Riksrevision to undertake a single task, it is also such that a broad and traditional historical majority has in practice assumed that there should be no inflation in this, and that the threshold for us should be higher than that which we consider to be the most easily profited or used in party politics. However, there are two issues that have moved us in this specific case. First of all, it is the fact that the Storting on the examination of Document No. 3:2 for 2002-2003, Riksrevision’s control of the government’s management of the state’s interests in companies, banks, etc. [[Department's]] for 2001, gave clear signals that other tasks of a more social nature should be carried out and that the exemption from State activities imposes new requirements for the Storting to exercise effective control and not lose its control. Exclusion of State activities does not imply the existence of a vacuum of responsibility. The subsequent monitoring of these establishments by size is becoming increasingly important, all the time when the possibility of prior management becomes and should be reduced. The second relationship concerns the organisation model selected itself with the Railway Agency as owner of BaneTele. A more detailed assessment of this issue is very interesting from the Biggest side, insofar as we can draw general conclusions on the benefits and disadvantages of this way of organising societal tasks. These circumstances make it natural that the Riksrevision should be given the task of looking into the circumstances mentioned in the proposals for Decisions I and II. As underlined by the Stortinget also in connection with the treatment of the Frøiland Committee, it must be clarified that it is up to the National Audit Office on a professional basis to decide how this task is to be resolved. On the basis also of the fact that Trygve Tamburstien at the time of writing has been targeted for gross adultery and for violation of the penal code § 317, I should of course be very careful about what specific conditions in BaneTele and the Railway Agency should be examined by the National Audit Office. Of course, the indications of conditions that do not tolerate the light of the day that I, as rapporteur of the case, have received during the process, I will also limit myself to discussing in this Chamber and at the present time. To what extent the findings of Ecocrim could possibly also form the basis of the National Audit Office's investigation work and the detailed division of work between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the National Audit Office, I will not go into it either. Our primary wish through II in relation to the work of the National Audit Office consists in a general wording that states that any ‘mal decision-making processes in Bane Tele and in the crossing points between the company and’ the railway works are revealed, what they consisted of, what and who, if any, caused them, and what the result was. Based on the findings of the National Audit Office, the Stortinget will then be invited to discuss on a general basis the extent to which the chosen form of organisation has obvious weaknesses and opens up processes that cannot be said to belong in a democratic society, as part of normal control activities. I and the Committee see a clear need for proper dynamisation, but then on an objective and professional basis, and therefore ask the Stortinge to join the Committee's recommendation under I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e280	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will present that case no. 3 and 4 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted. [[Fotation, see page 3336]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e310	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by main speakers from each political group and from members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for the other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies following the insertion of main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies after the insertion of members of the Government. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e317	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the presentation. Although it is the government that negotiates in the WTO, it is important that the Storting has this opportunity to discuss different aspects of the ongoing negotiations. There are negotiations affecting a number of areas that are important to Norway. I join the Foreign Minister when, in his statement, he says that a ‘obligatory multilateral trading system is the best means of combating arbitraryness, protectionism and the most powerful’. WTO legislation protects against discrimination and the dispute resolution mechanism ensures compliance. Not least, such legislation is of great importance to small countries, and in particular to a small country such as Norway, which is not a member of the EU. Of course, the WTO is not a perfect organisation either, but, like other international organisations, it is what the Member States do. And so the option is the strongest one right. The Doha Round has been called for the development round, where the interests of developing countries have been central. It is important that this is also reflected in the final result. I hardly think it is conceivable that there will be any final result without significant impact on the voice of developing countries. The most important thing for these countries is to improve market access for their products. Norway has decided to introduce duty-free and quota-free market access for all products except weapons from LDCs. But perhaps even more important: these countries need real market access for their products. For it is a problem that Norway almost does not trade goods from these countries. Therefore, more needs to be done for developing countries in the form of technical assistance in order to enable these countries to produce products that can be competitive in relation to the quality requirements on the market. There may also be grounds for considering other provisions which may prevent imports. We cannot infinitely turn to the chest and say that we have opened up full market access from the MUL countries if we have mechanisms that effectively impede this access. I would also like to point out that export subsidies on agricultural products result in dumped exports and are particularly harmful to the development of agriculture in poor countries. There should be real and great progress in the negotiations. UNDP has recently published a book called "Making Global Trade Work for People" by main author Kamal Malhotra. The book calls for developing countries to have the opportunity to protect their products at a stage of agricultural development, as many industrialised countries, not least Norway, have done. We are aware that this report has been highlighted as important in the ongoing negotiations. In the WTO, Norway has both offensive and defensive interests. It is now, as in the past, in the field of agriculture that there are the greatest challenges to reaching agreement. In Norway, as in a number of other countries, we have a strong desire to maintain a viable agriculture, with living areas and scattered settlements. However, it is a dilemma for us, as the Foreign Minister also pointed out in his statement, that this need contrasts with the demand for increased market access from the majority of WTO member countries. I have noticed the Minister of Foreign Affairs' observation that we need to be prepared for a result that could have significant consequences for Norwegian agriculture. I would like to stress that the proposal by the rapporteur, Mr Harbinson, was totally unacceptable from a Norwegian point of view. The Labour Party is committed to the importance of agriculture for food production, rural settlements and the preservation of a living cultural landscape throughout the country. We need to find partners in the WTO context that ensure this. In a global context, the EU is close to us in the view of the role of agriculture in society and is also a heavy player in the negotiations. Together with the debate on the Foreign Minister's presentation, we are discussing today a Document No. Eight proposals from representatives Bjørlo Lysbakken and Jacobsen to draw Norway’s requests and requirements for developing countries to liberalise trade in services. The majority of the population do not agree with this proposal. On the part of the Labour Party, we are committed to taking account of the developing countries, and we stress trade liberalisation that will contribute to economic growth and development in the poor countries. At the same time, we are concerned that there are no demands that undermine effective and good services in key sectors such as education, health, energy and water supply. We are therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee considers that national authorities should continue to decide whether services in such areas should be public or private. The WTO negotiations also cover a number of other areas. Market access for industrial products, including fish and fish products, is not least an area where Norway has clear offensive interests. It is worth noting that good results here also have a major impact on rural policy, housing and employment. As regards anti-dumping, it is clear that there is a need to do something about the legislation in order to avoid abuses in order to target imports that could compete with national products. In relation to the environment, I agree with the Government that we need to ensure equivalence between WTO legislation and multilateral environmental agreements. At the same time, it is important that environmental requirements are not set in such a way as to make it impossible for developing countries to live up to them. In the area of the TRIPS agreement and public health, there is clearly a need to reach an agreement so that the poorest countries can access low-priced medicines. Knowing that a total of 2.4 million people died last year just south of the Sahara in Africa for AIDS-related reasons, it is very important to reach an agreement on the diseases to be covered by the scheme and which countries should be able to benefit from it. I hope, despite the fact that many difficult questions remain, that the Ministerial meeting in Cancún, Mexico, for the autumn, can reach an agreement, and not least that the outcome of the meeting will be such that you can actually look back on this round of developments. It is also important that we can achieve a result that ensures a continued viability of agriculture throughout Norway. We wish the Government good luck in the final phase of the negotiations and we welcome the fact that the Government is consulting the bodies of the Stortinge on the WTO negotiations in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e352	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e355	City and country, hand in hand’ has been one of the most important postwar political slogans in Norway. Around the world, we see that precisely because farmers in rural areas are in a bad state, they move into cities, with slumming, etc. I know that the representative Eyeågen, as former Minister of Agriculture, is well aware of this. That's why I want to ask her a question. A guy named Stephen Byers wrote in The Guardian on 19 May this year – he was also a negotiator to the United Kingdom in Seattle – that he was wrong that free trade doesn't give the poor what a believed free trade could give them. My question to the representative Eyeågen is whether she sees the enormous consequences free trade can have for farmers and small communities around the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e362	There is no doubt that the agricultural policy pursued in many rich countries, including Greece, is one of the most important. heavy export subsidies and consequently dumped exports are very harmful to many poor countries. There is a broad consensus on this in the Biggest and, not least, there is a broad consensus on the fact in developing countries. I have had the pleasure of attending a number of conferences where the own voices of developing countries have been heard. They are very impatient about the need to do something about the policy in the rich countries, so that poor countries can build their own agriculture. That's an important part of the negotiations. This may be challenging for Norway. But as I pointed out, I believe that the export subsidies in particular are very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e369	The representative Eyeågen points out, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also stated, that there should be a conflict between maintaining a sound Norwegian agriculture and pursuing a solidarity policy with developing countries. The centre party believes that this is a wrong conclusion, that it is obvious that if poor countries are to escape poverty, a system of protection of agriculture and allow countries to produce food for their own people must just be in place. I am a little uncertain about the position of the Workers' Party in this matter. Therefore, I would simply like to ask the representative Eyeågen: does she see it as maintaining a Norwegian agriculture as we know it today, conflicts with pursuing a solidarity policy towards developing countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e376	As I suggested in my speech, there may also be a need for developing countries to implement protection at a stage in which they build up their agricultural sector. But what is the main problem today is that these countries are completely uncompetitive because rich countries have subsidies and export subsidies, so that their output is uncompetitive. In the case of Norwegian production, it is small and we are small on the international export market We do not contribute very much to the major market disruptions. But it is clear that developing countries point out that we have protection and support that they think is far too high and that they want to do something about. My concern is that we must work for solutions which, on the one hand, safeguard the interests of developing countries, but which also provide us with sufficient basis for ensuring Norwegian farmers satisfactory incomes and opportunities to maintain production throughout the country. I think both are possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e385	There is no doubt that the Labour Party and the SV look differently at the WTO, and we respect that. However, when I sat and listened to the contributions of the representative, I couldn't help but wonder if the Workers' Party has not at all cared about taking a stand on the international protest storm that has been against WTO policy in many countries around the world. The statements of the eye, as far as I could get along, did not have a single critical objection to the WTO's policy and the way the system works now, in other words, like the Secretary of State's statement. My simple question to which I could imagine being answered is: is there any point where the Labour Party is more critical of the WTO and the current WTO agenda than what the Government is?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e392	Now it is actually the government that is conducting these negotiations, and that also means that they have to decide on the specific issues that come up. But if I am to be allowed to express my personal opinion, I have been critical of the WTO because one has not been able to take enough account of the long-term interests of developing countries. I therefore hope that we can get such a result this time. I am very surprised that EN itself is not more concerned with developing countries, but has positions that suggest that they know better than the vast majority of developing countries that are involved in these negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e399	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e403	Not least for a small country such as Norway, with a significant export-oriented economy, it is essential that the relationship with the outside world is marked by predictability and binding multilateral and international agreements. Norway therefore has a particular interest in the contribution of trade systems to economic stability and sustainable, even growth. It will be an important part of our insurance against arbitrary treatment, protectionism and discrimination from around the world. In such a context, the WTO is important for Norway. It is also important that we address the debate on negotiating arrangements and the outcome with a clear recognition that it is hardly a current issue for Norway to leave the WTO. It will only have the consequence that Norwegian services and goods can be excluded from important export markets, and we will be deprived of the opportunity to influence the further development of the WTO. The WTO is particularly important for small countries. Norway is one of them. With such a starting point, it becomes essential that one achieves the best possible solutions within the existing system, while at the same time working to develop the system and the organisation’s rules of play in the direction that one wants. As it is negotiated across a wide range of matters, we will reasonably never get full coverage for all our wishes and demands. As I was in the previous exchange here, it may also take longer than you would like. But the assessment of the result must at last be whether we are satisfied with the total, and whether we think the long-term trend of negotiating arrangements and agreements is moving in a positive direction. That being said, it includes the fact that we also have to endure some negotiating outcomes that strongly oppose us. The current round of negotiations is based on the decisions of the Doha Ministerial Conference in 2001. As is known, the negotiations include trade in services, agriculture, access to the market for industrial products, including fish and fishery products, trade and the environment, the TRIPS Agreement and the provisions on anti-dumping and subsidies. It will be a reality that we will not end up with equally good results in all of these areas. It depends, of course, on our own negotiating positions and abilities, but to an even greater extent it is governed by the other negotiating parties, which are both many and large. We can't subtract the parts of the final result that are the best for us. Nothing is decided here until there is agreement on everything, as it is the total package that has to be accepted. The positive development of developing countries is an important part of Norwegian policy. The right is therefore satisfied that the Government emphasises the development dimension of WTO work, thereby contributing to this round of negotiations becoming an important part of the fight against poverty. From the Norwegian side, special attention should be expected to be given to products of particular interest to developing countries in assessing customs reductions. It must also cover agricultural products. At the same time, one should not expect the same countries to have equal concessions on their markets, in other words so-called positive special treatment. It is also important to find solutions on how developing countries without their own generation capacity can benefit from the provisions of the TRIPS Agreement on coercive licensing. Market access for industrial products, including fish and seafood, is a cornerstone of Norwegian exports. The arrangement promoted by the President-in-Office of the negotiations in May suggests that a general cutter at the customs rates of the developed countries should be higher than the equivalent for the developing countries. The size of the cuts is then to be negotiated. This is combined with proposals to abolish customs duties in seven sectors of special export interest for developing countries, including fish and textiles. The least developed countries, the MUL countries, are proposed with the exception of the reduction obligations. This approach should be an interesting starting point for Norway. During the agricultural negotiations, no clarification has been provided since our last debate in February on the foreign policy presentation. The right continues to support an approach that takes account of the needs of developing countries and, on the other hand, provides understanding and solutions to meet non-economic conditions such as housing, cultural landscapes and the environment, as well as the specific problems of farming under the geographical and climatic conditions we have in Norway. However, in this area of debate we seem to have to be prepared for the fact that the final result can be very different from our wishes, with the challenges it can bring. Finally, in the days prior to this debate, a number of stakeholders and NGOs have been involved, among others. on the propulsion of the so-called ‘Singapore Issues’. It thus refers to the four areas of activity initially launched at the Ministerial Conference in Singapore in 1996, which include trade and investment, trade and competition policy, simplification of trade procedures and transparency in public procurement. In Doha, several developing countries strongly opposed the need to negotiate in these areas, and in particular on investment and competition. The compromise was known that one would negotiate in all four fields, but that one at the Cancún meeting would decide how this should be done. Under a clear premise that one must also take account of the special needs of developing countries, it is important for Norway to have multilateral rules in these fields as part of strengthening and further developing stable framework conditions for international trade. This can be illustrated, for example: of which more than 1 800 bilateral investment agreements have been concluded today, mainly between OECD countries and developing countries. The need for multilateral legislation therefore appears to be clear. The government's work on WTO negotiations seems to be well implemented and well thought of the basic principles to which Stortinget has agreed, even though it takes a long time to make progress in many areas. On this basis, the Right fully supports further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e431	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e434	The disappearance of export subsidies in rich countries, which would then lead to countries in the south being able to enter our market more easily, has been discussed by many here. And it's clear that from SV's point of view, we're willing to discuss how the devices on the export routes are going to be. But then to my question to the representative Vallersnes. The problem in many countries in the south is that one uses the best land for export agriculture, so that in some cases they actually experience that their own population does not have the daily bread. Does Vallersnes see the problem here, that if the market is to deal with it that way, does it actually lead to sales in some countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e441	I think it is important for the developing countries, as it is for Norway, that there is a need at the bottom of agricultural policy to be self-contained in agricultural products, i.e. to feed its own population. And there you can have different assumptions in southern countries than under our skies. The representative Jacobsen was involved in the export subsidies. We have included it in our original negotiation play from the Norwegian side. But we know that there is a difference in emphasis between the other negotiating parties. I see quite clearly that export subsidies have a very unfortunate influence on the possibility of developing countries becoming self-producing for their own consumption, and I think there is quite a broad consensus on that issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e448	Agriculture is one of the difficult issues in these negotiations. In the Right’s programme, the following is stated: ‘Agriculture policy must be designed to reduce total support for agriculture. In order to ensure lower food prices for consumers, the Right considers that import protection and market regulation should be stepped down.» That's interesting in relation to the negotiations we're in. Right-wing programming at least sets a very clear direction, without being clear on how far to go, and that's what I want to go on. In the WTO negotiations, there is a range of attitudes to agriculture, from the Norwegian positions via the EU positions and to the positions of the major agricultural exporting countries. My question to the representative Vallersnes is: Where on this spectrum of views will he place Right-wing programming?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e460	Yes, there is a clear understanding in the Right that foreign policy is, on the one hand, aid policy, but, on the other hand, it is also trade policy, and that has been very correctly referred to by the representative Haga from the Right Programme. Obviously, when it comes to the question being asked, one thing is what you can achieve in the short term, another thing is how much you can achieve in the long term. However, an indication can be taken from Norway’s negotiation in this area, which was that customs duties could be reduced by 36 pst. on average, at least 10 pst. per 1 % toll line, internal agricultural aid 20 pst. for domestic products and 60 pst. for products exported and the export aid initially 60 pst. It's a starting point, and then you'll see if it's possible to develop it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e467	It has been repeatedly said both in the presentation and in previous debates we have had here in Stortingen on the WTO service negotiations that Norway's demands reflect important Norwegian export interests. That is not so strange, and we must assume that the starting point for other countries before the Ministerial Conference and in the various negotiations is the first to reflect the export interests of each country. We have seen through the leaks that have become known regarding Norway's demands in the GATS negotiations, for example, that Norway has requested liberalisation in the telecommunications sector in Bangladesh, where Telenor is strongly inside, and in oil services in Angola, where Statoil is strongly inside. How does the representative of Vallersnes see the need to make a development agenda and put development issues first if each of the WTO Member States is to present in the negotiations requirements based primarily on its own export interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e474	I believe that the inclusion of service negotiations in the WTO negotiations is important not only to us, but also to the developing countries. It must be based here, as otherwise, on meeting the primary needs of our own country. Otherwise it will be difficult to sell this product at home. After all, we are all committed to managing the interests of our own country in the first place, but in our opinion, it can be well combined with a deliberate attitude to take care of the interests of the developing countries as well. Where those interests lie, one will be able to get an idea, not least, of the wide range of bilateral negotiations taking place and giving us feedback on where we can offer developing countries solutions that are at their best as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e479	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e482	The Foreign Minister’s presentation was a thorough presentation of most of the major challenges Norway and the WTO will face, not least during the ministerial meeting in Cancún in September. Only in the debate we have had so far here today, do we realize that the obstacles and thresholds to be exceeded before we reach targets are many, when in such a homogeneous and small country as ours, we have so many problems to come up with that which may be similar to some common positions. On 28 March this year we had an interpellation debate on agriculture and the WTO, and that debate was very much influenced by what the WTO could mean for Norwegian agriculture, what the Foreign Minister refers to as defensive interests, while Norway has other more offensive interests. I think it's absolutely right to clarify what your interests are, and then fight for them. But I allow myself to question whether what is so-called our interests is really the interests of the Norwegian people. The Minister for Foreign Affairs argues well for the importance of the WTO and for a common regulatory framework that ensures us against, for example, the anti-dumping measures. Progress in the WTO process is therefore in our own interest, and progress in the Doha Round is very much about agriculture and very much about developing countries. If Norway is to define its interests to be something quite different from that of developing countries in the most sensitive area, we may be out of line. Another thing is that, of course, we will also argue that deregulation and liberalisation of the agricultural sector are of the utmost interest to the vast majority of the population of Norway. Many now claim that Norwegian agricultural subsidies are not so bad. They include, inter alia: not a large amount of export subsidies. It is probably possible and perhaps also useful to hold such a debate, but if we are to make progress in this round of developments in the WTO, it is about cutting through, going ahead and showing other Western countries that Norway will cut into subsidies, we will open up imports to a greater extent than today, we will take inwards that the entire agricultural policy of the Western world undermines the attempts to achieve the UN's Millennium Goals and undermines the ongoing WTO process. Instead, we choose as best we can, to have as our main goal that things should be like they are. Others are allowed to take the load of changing. Here I will present a few quotes from the interpellation debate on 28 March. Minister for Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen then said: ‘It is a fundamental objective of the Norwegian side that WTO legislation must continue to give us a space for action in order to pursue a national agricultural policy.’ In the same debate, Councillor Lars Sponheim said: ‘Finally, the export subsidies are proposed to be phased out. Although I understand that much speaks for such forms of support to be banned in the longer term, I would like to stress that this proposal will particularly affect the Norwegian food industry and an already heavily pressed milk sector.’ So the interests here are clearly fixed. Norway otherwise makes a major number in international contexts of being the foremost in achieving good development goals, but not here. And in many ways we are willing to find alliance partners that we can work well with, but here we are fighting hard with the most conservative and orthodox, like Switzerland, Japan and the EU. I would like to refer again to the State Council of Sponheim's articles in the interpellation debate. Then you could say that the Unland Group is divided. Yes, there are differences of opinion there too, but one cannot cover the fact that most developing countries, not to say as well as all, are very concerned about changes in the agricultural policy of Western countries. The President of Burkina Faso said last week at a WTO meeting in Geneva that in 2001 the rich countries gave six times as much subsidies to the farmers as they gave to the unaided. He tried to understand that it is hopeless to give with one hand and take so much more with the other. The EU and the United States are the storks and the big bullies in this context, without a doubt. For example, EU sugar subsidies are a study in madness. A little will be done, and unfortunately little can be solved before these actors come to real recognition. The United States is positive in words, but has a lot to do at home before they can be said to be the developing countries' friends. The EU is neither positive in word nor in action. They have levelled themselves against the interests of economically strong farmers' organisations and are subject to pressure, contrary to the interests of their own consumers. Subsidies are an evil circle that's hard to get out of. In general, in addition to costing a lot of money, subsidies in total lead to overproduction and undermine the prices of raw materials on the world market. This reduces income opportunities for farmers in poor countries. The last grant to the tribe in the fight against freer world trade is the alliance between agricultural organisations and other anti-globalisation champions. Last week some of us were delighted to be invited to breakfast outside Stortinget. The breakfast was very good, the message was somewhat mixed. The message, as I understood it, was that international trade does not serve the interests of the developing countries. If we buy that claim, we can continue to argue that Norwegian protectionism is actually a solidarity act with the world's poor, in addition to being a gift package to Norwegian consumers. This kind of argument is turning the world upside down. Then you don't take into account what is the basis for growth and real poverty reduction. As the Progress Party perceives it, there is a need to dwell a little bit on what is our interests, what should be our strategy. I respect that the majority in this Chamber is well aware of the strategy that has been pursued. But for our part, we would stress that we believe that what is perceived as our defensive interests should have been redefined in a completely different way, and other alliance partners should have been found than those you have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e517	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e520	Export subsidies are the result of overproduction within a country. And then there's subsidies to get the products out of the market, so that the country's output doesn't collapse completely. This with market regulation is something that Norwegian farmers have been very good at taking care of in Norway. Norwegian farmers are good at market regulation. It's actually cost us a little. But what is the alternative to export subsidias? It is an agricultural sector that is less industrialised and less dependent on free trade and the market. Is the Progress Party willing to participate in the agricultural reform, so that it is more based on employment rather than overproduction?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e527	It is with interest you record that SV stands as a hot defender of just export subsidies. I thought it was something we could very much agree on was a udder and should be liquidated. I do not share the premise in Jacobsen's reasoning. The world is not such that you have to choose that way. Of course, we want a completely different form of agricultural policy, where subsidies are phased out to a much greater extent and the industry is given the freedom it deserves. This means a change in Norwegian agricultural production – of course we realize it – with much greater use and fewer active farmers. We hope for the same area and that the result of food production can be maintained. But the concept of export subsidies in my world is not something we should be familiar with to support. If there is something that the developing countries really put their finger on, and that is a problem they agree on, it is precisely that export subsidies are a bad thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e536	The Progress Party wishes to see world trade as free as possible. We have seen that a freer world trade has rightly led a good many people out of poverty, but it is also a fact that the poorest have become poorer in the rich part of the world, and also that the poorest in the poor part of the world have become poorer. But the Progress Party wants a freest world trade in spite of this. Nor is the Progress Party a champion of aid to get out of poverty. My question will then be: Does the Progress Party believe that it is absolutely curative that the poor of the world become poorer, or, in fact, despite all the experience that one has, that a freest possible world trade is what would get the poorest out of poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e543	Now we're fighting for a freer world trade to get results. We are not there today that we have the free world trade that the representative says. At the same time, I feel that the reasoning drawn out here is completely wrong. After opening up in China, 300 million Chinese people are lifted out of poverty. The countries that have opened their trade, which have deregulated, introduced democracy, respect for human rights, are generally richer and have a population that is less poor than countries that have not. These are also the facts of what we're discussing here, so the premise of the question is ripping crazy. That is why the fight against poverty will also be the fight for freer world trade. All historical research shows that this is the reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e552	The representative, Højlund, is very confident in his review of the results of international research. Many might claim that China during the years of building up its prosperity was a country that practiced a much less open economy than the WTO recommends today. That's not what I really wanted to talk about. The Progress Party is a party that has shown an increasing willingness to protect both Norwegian business and to some extent to subsidise Norwegian business when the party believes it is necessary. However, the agricultural industry is clearly excluded from this new policy and must be exposed as much as possible to free competition on the world market. I have to assume that the alternative of the representative, Höglund, is that Norway should buy the most of its food on the world market, and that this prescription must also apply to other countries that are in the situation of having an agricultural product that is not competitive. How, then, will Høglund ensure a stable food supply for the entire world population, if agriculture is to be reduced and abolished in all those countries that are not able to compete on the world market today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e561	I don't think the representative Bjørlo Lysbakken and I disagree very much about the description of China. So to the Progress Party and Subsidies: at least we've never gone so far that we've asked Norway to fight in the WTO to get an impact on strange subsidies. Subsidies are also not an important component of the Progress Party's policy in this area. I'm sorry, President, but I missed the last one. I think I'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e570	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e573	It is easy to agree with the Foreign Minister’s opening of the distribution process that a trading system contributes to ‘growth, stability and sustainable development’. It is even called that there should be ‘the instrument against arbitrariness, protectionism and the right of the strongest’ in world trade. This is a wrap around in the introduction, which is very easy for SV to agree on. But what's in this? That's what's kind of exciting, because we look at the situation in relation to free trade, we see that Norwegian jobs are threatened, precisely because it's quite possible to bring Norwegian raw materials from the Norwegian coast to China and bring them back and sell them on the European market, precisely because we have so low energy prices. The most important basis for free trade that the largest liberalists want is that the energy price is so low. That's what makes it possible to run so much free trade, and then it's maybe the environment that suffers the most. Now, if we move to China, as the Fischerbladt has done, we will see that the situation there is such that the Fischerbladt describes the Chinese industry as pure slavery. Then we talk about wages of 4-5 kroner a day, we talk about seven working days a week, twelve hours a day and working standards that we would never have stood by in Norway. Free trade is not allowed only. We see that there is almost no work force left in Norway, because we move out of work by job. Drag around and talk to business consultants in Norwegian municipalities. They list a lot of projects where they did not get support from SND. In most cases, they may say that they can add one argument, that it was not wrong, but the wrong country the application was sent. If he had been sent from another country, they had received support via SND. It is also a form of subsidisation. It is clear that Norway has used this as an active part of its industrial policy. This government is currently using this to remove workspaces. If we look at this with export subsidiaries, which have been discussed earlier today, it is clear that they should be removed as far as possible. But then we have to remove the cause, which is, of course, overproduction. Then we have to start producing food in a more efficient way – I'm not going to use the word organic. I have asked the Minister for Agriculture several questions: Those who have animals in Norway, are they allowed to graze? It's actually like this in Norway today that it's not always the ones that have animals that have grazing rights. This government is more busy providing large leisure properties to some people than giving animals, grazing rights, so that we could exploit the natural resources that exist in Norway. We not only have a right to drive the country, we also have a duty to exploit this country. That obligation is to carry on an inheritance that we have been given by previous generations, but also to convert agriculture so that we use the resources that we have, and not necessarily produce on imported power feed, on fertilizers that are created in a very energy-intensive way. This policy is still waiting for the Government to be able to achieve at national level. When we have made Norway a country where farmers tend to be quite good – as they do today, but they are threatened – and production is at a reasonable level, we can let go and tell who we want to deal with. However, each country needs a fundamental opportunity to protect its own production, whether it is to provide food to its population or it is based on the obligation to take care of the natural resources that lie there. These are good value conservative words – protectionism, protection. At least there shouldn't be anything new for value conservatives. These are things we have with us as part of the basis of our policy. For example, let's go. to countries in the south, such as El Salvador, which I visited in winter, have almost all of the batches in the program, in fact quite far up, a small point called the ‘stoppage of the calf good’. I'm not going to use the word calf-good, but powder milk. It is not only in the form of export subsidiaries that are sent out overproduction from their own market, but milk can be sent around the world as powdered milk. This is what Salvadoran politicians see. There will be nothing left for those who will try to run a small milk production in El Salvador. This is nothing new. This is something that farmers all over the world experience. At the same time, we see that there is a correlation between what Norwegian industrial workers experience, who are threatened to lose their jobs, and what industrial workers experience in the world. This context is more important than a push for WTO negotiations so quickly that these so-called irreversible changes begin. What, then, should the Foreign Minister make recommendations on what Norway should do at the WTO Ministerial Meeting in Cancún, Mexico, to the House? First of all, the experience that we have had before today that free trade is home to the development of the poorest countries. It is now beginning to be reasonably well documented that pure free trade — the release and opening of a country — creates more poverty. Nor should we be concerned, with the great amount of aid available to us, that, in some cases, we may in fact be at risk of our assistance agreeing to remedy the consequences of increased free trade. It's quite well documented from a number of sources that most countries achieve growth by releasing as they are able, and as they have built up a little industry, just like we've done in Norway. Telenor is now able to be out in the whole world market, but it was Norway that built the Telewerk for many years. This spiral of development must also enable other countries, not least those in the south, to pass through. The WTO Agreement is based almost on the principle that it is easier to obtain concessions than to allow. Processes are run and decisions are taken without any particular participation from most people in the different countries. Here, Norway should demand that flexibility be possible – the possibility of undoing must be present in the agreement, both for future generations and for individual countries. There is nothing more undemocratic than things that are irreversible. We're going to have to remember that it's different starting points for the different countries to go into this. We know that some countries in the south may not even be able to afford to have negotiators or experts present. In Norway, we have resources of thousands, while many other countries may not even be able to send more than three–four consultants to be able to follow the negotiations at all. We cannot push this through at the pace of negotiations. The Cancún meeting must give countries in the south and governments where political space for action to shape a policy that can lead them out of poverty. We should give them time to do that. As soon as the extension of the agenda and what the WTO will include is now happening, they will not have time to change. That's why it's time to evaluate and think about, more than to rush ahead with increased free trade. When we discuss assistance here in the house, it goes on civil society and on popular rule, and we try as best we can to look for good things that we can be with and support about. We're also going to do that in the commercial field. We must not make trade agreements like those that come after us will condemn as a poor global regime, to which Norway has been associated.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e594	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e597	In this reply I will also try to answer that question from the representative Bjørlo Lysbakken who failed for me instead. Does SV not agree that all countries cannot produce everything? The whole idea of commerce seems to have disappeared for SV. Obviously, based on a socialist, plan-economic idea, it might make sense. But it is true that the colonial nations, after being freed from e.g.. United Kingdom, started producing all kinds of goods. They borrowed and got debt in a lot, instead of importing what they couldn't easily produce themselves. They did not get exported either, because trade barriers stopped it. Isn't it an advantage that we focus on what we're good at, and let others produce what they're good at? This way, we can all profit from it, and the world can become a better place to live. That's part of the basis for growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e607	Trade is positive, trade gives growth – no doubt about it! It's always like that. In addition, trade provides a great deal of personal, cultural, etc. But take one, for example. A field where we're big, where we're giants, simple fish, it's clear that one of the problems is market access. But the biggest problem within the fishing industry now is perhaps overproduction. They're partially subsidized, too, but we're not going to take the long story. In fact, the main challenge for Norwegian fishing and the Norwegian fishing industry is to achieve more further processing. It is clear that Norway will be the supplier of the world's best food from our large seas, and it is clear that we are totally dependent on someone wanting to buy it, and we are going to buy other goods back. If I have expressed myself as if we were against trade, it was not at all meant. But it is clear that trade should also be regulated. We can't let the market do that. Trade is too important to be left to the free market.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e614	The representative Jacobsen is a hot defender of protectionism, at least it appeared this way in his posts. That article was very little like the posts I have heard from very many representatives from developing countries. It is now the case that some of these developing countries are calling for security clauses in a freer trade in food. However, a large majority are very concerned that they need to have better access to the markets of the rich countries. Is it the case that SV believes that developing countries do not understand their own best in this matter and that SV understands much better what the developing countries are doing? Is there at all any element of Norwegian agricultural policy, as SV sees it, that could be unfortunate for developing countries, or does developing countries take completely wrong points by point when criticising aspects of our agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e621	Biff from Botswana or roses from Kenya – I could have made the list very long – really has nothing to do with the Norwegian market. The big problem is to trade between countries in the south, it is the trade that will develop so slowly and so carefully that it will actually generate growth in the south. But I absolutely accept what the eye says: do we have such a high pedestal in SV that we even know better than the developing countries themselves what is their best? I'm aware of that is a challenge, but I think that in the long term, the U-country will be aware that in the north we will also maintain an agricultural production that is built on the natural resources we have, precisely to preserve our society, precisely in terms of the multifunctional part of agriculture. It is clear that they will eventually be able to expand it even more, and of course, where it is natural, to also participate in the world market with their cash crops, but it must be in such a way that income actually goes back to people living in the country. In many cases, it is a foreign company...
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e626	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e629	How strict the President is!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e634	The posts of the representative Jacobsen reflected a very skeptical view of free trade, market economy and freer market access. However, as the representative is probably aware, Norway is an exporting country, and not least many of the jobs in the representative’s own home country, More and Romesdal, are directly dependent on better market access. In which business areas, if any, does SV consider Norway to have offensive interests? And does the representative not see that there must be reciprocity in an international trading system? If we demand access to our fish on international markets, we must also accept that other countries require access to our markets.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e641	I thought in my judgements when it comes to the market economy, I have also drawn up a good deal of good, old conservative virtues that are absolutely worth caring for and that contain a lot of propriety. Because that's really what it's all about. We're not going to make arrangements now to tie up the poor countries year after year. So where do we have offensive interests? We have it, of course, when it comes to furniture, fish and aluminium – we have it when it comes to all the important export industries that we have in More and Romesdal. It is clear that we should also work for them, but there should be a framework within which other countries can also get up. I must say that we do not have a problem with market access e.g. in More and Romesdal. The problem is that we have a government that so far has not done anything with interest or with the exchange rate. This room has simply sent the political opportunity we had to run the interest rate, down to Norway Bank. That has our problem for Mr More and Mr Romsdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e650	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e653	I thank the Minister for a good and thorough presentation on the World Trade Organisation, the WTO. The statement shows that the Cancún Ministerial Conference will be more important and comprehensive than it had been planned in advance. The themes and areas of negotiation are many and difficult, and it is therefore positive that the Stortinget should be given the opportunity to discuss the issues in advance. In an increasingly globalized world, world trade affects us all. In order for globalisation and world trade to provide opportunities for all, we need rules of play to ensure that everyone is able to share in the good and that well-being is fairly distributed. The WTO has a binding international law regulation, a dispute resolution system and a forum for negotiations between actors. This ensures more committed, predictable and fair international economic cooperation. The Christian People’s Party therefore agrees with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that Norway should not withdraw from the WTO, although there may be negotiated results that do not always provide the best possible outcome for Norway and Norwegian companies. The Christian People's Party has no excessive belief in the free market forces. We believe that the economic forces must be kept in check, and that a globalized world without driving rules will only serve the strongest. No, what we need is better management of international trade. The international financial institutions and the global market must operate in the best possible and fairest possible way. The Christian People's Party does not see international trade as an automatic threat to development, jobs or the environment. International trade is important for Norway and the Norwegian industry. Increasing and fairer world trade also has the potential to improve the economic situation of developing countries. Looking at income, trade has a much better potential for developing countries than just aid and debt. I would like to mention to Bjørn Jacobsen that President Museveni of Uganda himself has said that Africa needs development aid as much as debt to be settled from the painful debt burden. But with help and debt relief, one only reaches one step on the way. What Africa is asking for are opportunities to compete and to sell goods in Western markets. Museveni sums it up this way: we want to trade out of poverty. The fact that trade can play a positive role in development does not mean that all developing countries should automatically open up their markets to international competition and free trade. The international trade regime must be asymmetric with special arrangements for developing countries, in particular the least developed ones. Experience has shown that there are good reasons for allowing developing countries to benefit differently from the protection of their domestic markets. The development of world trade since 1945 shows that a free global market can fail the poorest and that total free trade rarely brings the desired outcome. It is more often that developing countries that have successfully expanded their economies are those who have been prepared to provide their own industry with protection while achieving strength and giving society enough time to develop varied products. With such a transitional phase, they can create strong industries and businesses that can compete on a level playing field in the global market, without the need to continue protecting their own industry. Taiwan and South Korea are good illustrations of this. They built their international trade on a foundation of national subsidies and strong investment in infrastructure and skills, while protecting themselves against competition from foreign companies. The international trade regime should therefore give developing countries market access and be more transparent to differentiated products, in particular in textiles, raw materials and agriculture. At the same time, in a transitional phase, developing countries need sufficient political conditions and flexibility to create their own industry and institutions. The World Bank has calculated that reforming international trade rules could bring 300 million people out of poverty. We need reform, because the rules of international trade today go against the interests of the poorest countries. It is also important to point out that trade affects social development by contributing to economic growth but that there is no automatic link between economic growth and social development. Should a few be needed, social investment and good governance. International trade challenges us because it has a major impact on national policies, for example: agricultural policy. In this way, our wishes for national priorities may conflict with the needs of many developing countries. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement, agriculture will be one of the most difficult areas in the Cancún negotiations. The challenge here is to improve market access for countries dependent on exports of agricultural products, while less competitive countries still need to protect their own agricultural production with support and customs protection. As far as market access is concerned, it is primarily the United States, the EU and Japan that require lower rates of duty. For Norway, maintaining high levels of customs duties is central to maintaining a viable agricultural sector. With its development policy, Norway is helping to promote development in the poorest countries, but if we are to succeed in achieving the UN’s Millennium Goals, our national policies also need to be changed. The proposal by the President of the WTO agricultural negotiations is a major deviation from the Norwegian position and could have dramatic consequences for Norwegian agriculture if adopted. At the same time, these are areas that are at the heart of the poorest countries. The proposal takes a great deal of account of the demands of developing countries because it is decided that this round of negotiations should have this focus. I am convinced that farmers, like most others in Norway, are prepared to contribute to helping the poorest countries. However, there is a question of doing the best by destroying Norwegian agriculture, or of combining the considerations. It should be possible to combine both sides. We have an agriculture that we are proud of and that helps to maintain hundreds of living communities. These will fight the Christian People's Party to protect. At the same time, we must be so realistic that we see that there will have to be major changes in agriculture. Agriculture will meet a tougher economy and tougher demands through international negotiations in the future. It is therefore important that we pursue a policy adapted to this new era. The Christian People's Party wants a more effective structurally adapted agricultural policy along with modernisation and renewal for each farm. We must also remember that developing countries are not a uniform group. The developing countries want better access to their markets, but have different views on whether this should be done through general tariff reductions or through customs preferences. The poorest countries serve to ensure that there are high rates of customs duty in other countries, because one can then give preference to these countries. This enables them to export their goods without being competitive in relation to other large producers. It is not that Norway automatically increases imports from the poorest countries only the rates of customs duty disappear. More will then be imported from the EU, the United States, Argentina and New Zealand. It's a cross of thought that it's just 0.5 pst. of a total agricultural product import into Norway of DKK 18 billion coming from the poorest developing countries. If we are serious about our desire to promote development for the poorest, our imports from these must increase where practicable. Such imports must be developed at the same time as one develops the resources for production and infrastructure in each country. Here, aid will play a central role. The TRIPS Agreement protects, inter alia: patents, trade marks and copyrights against use or copying without authorisation. It is a central point in terms of trade, but developing countries have long believed that patents and intellectual property rights do not lead to poverty reduction and development because they distort competition in favour of large and established enterprises. Especially in relation to the AIDS epidemic, it has become clear that many pharmaceutical companies have not marketed patented medicinal products in the poorest countries or have set the price so high that people cannot afford them. The Doha Declaration states that the TRIPS Agreement is neither a barrier nor a barrier to addressing national public health problems. On the other hand, there is disagreement as to which countries should benefit from the scheme and which diseases should be covered by the scheme. It's only the United States that has not accepted the proposal that was submitted last December. The Christian People's Party asks the Government to continue its active commitment to finding a solution to this matter, since this has consequences for the world's poorest. Services exceed 60 pst. of the world's gross domestic product and is the fastest growing part of the world economy. Service negotiations are therefore an important part of the round of negotiations. GATS covers trade in services traded commercially. Public services are not covered by the GATS, and privatisation and outsourcing are therefore not a topic of negotiation. Members decide which obligations they intend to assume. The requirements and proposals put forward by Norway relate mainly to maritime services, energy services and telecommunications. Also in the case of fish and fish products, Norway has clear offensive interests. It is absolutely central to Norwegian enterprises and jobs that we get better market access, more transparency and more predictability. I am sure the government will work hard in the negotiations for our Norwegian companies. This does not mean that the needs of developing countries will be forgotten. It may seem that this is what SV believes, when the party has repeatedly criticised the government for promoting claims towards developing countries in the GATS negotiations. It is important to remember that most of the requirements are addressed to industrialised countries. Secondly, the Government has chosen to make proposals to the poorest countries precisely to ensure that these countries are included in the bilateral negotiation process. Nor are the proposals for developing countries formulated in the same way as for non-countries. Norway invites cooperation and contacts in the areas of negotiation proposed. Developing countries themselves have pointed out that one of the main problems is that they are not guaranteed real participation in the multilateral trading system. That's exactly what the government is trying to secure. Finally, I should like to mention a very central area in the negotiations. At the UN Summit in Johannesburg on Sustainable Development, Norway, together with Switzerland and Ethiopia, won the battle to prevent WTO rules from being overarching international environmental agreements. It is important that Norway now follows up this important environmental winner in the ongoing negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e685	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e688	The representative Rise's posts were a bit to everyone, it was trade defence and it was defence for other areas. So many could feel at home there. But I would like to address some of the wordings of the representative Rise. He said that total free trade will take care of only the interests of the rich, and that total free trade has rarely succeeded. Does the representative Rise have any examples to give when he can refer to this? Very well known the world has not been blessed with very great degree of total free trade. I would like to challenge the representative Rise whether it is not the current system of protectionism in the agricultural sector that takes care of the interests of the rich, and that is what we have to do. The fault lies in how we have organized ourselves today, which has been no blessing, and so free trade has not been tried.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e698	The representative, Høglund, addresses a very important issue when he mentions the problems in today's system. That's also what I referred to in my post, that there are many problems in today's system, and that it is what makes a reform of today's system necessary. Global trade is not an end in itself, but only one of several means of achieving better development. And if the existing trade regime doesn't contribute to this today, we have to change it, don't distance ourselves from it. I think we are on the right track when we have now heard the Foreign Minister's statement and the main priorities that Norway sets. Then I think we will have a better development for the poor countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e705	I find it alarming that a representative of the government parties once again says in this Chamber that the GATS agreement does not apply to public services, when the actual wording of the GATS legislation is that public services are exempt if the services are not also offered on a commercial basis. And there's almost no service that's not going to be. This is a matter of great uncertainty, and it is clear that the government parties have still not moved in and entered more thoroughly. And that worries me. The representative Rise is now on the board of the Government's signal to provide a blank mandate for Norway to support a new broad round of negotiations in the WTO. This means that the WTO will be expanded to cover a number of new areas, including: will be negotiating a global investment agreement in line with the MAI draft, which was rejected at the end of the 1990s, and which many were sceptical until then. I also think the Christian People's Party was skeptical about that at the time. I would like to know why the Christian People's Party is now in favour of negotiating an international investment agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e712	In fact, in the Norwegian system, it is the government that negotiates. Representatives Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken and Bjørn Jacobsen have now proposed that the Stortinget interfere with these negotiations and ask for Norway's requests and demands for developing countries to liberalise trade in services. We see that the current negotiations are the full responsibility of the Government. It's completely unnatural that the Storting mixes up in this at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e719	I almost have to ask my question one more time, because that's not what I asked. I did not ask Lars Rise to go in to withdraw some negotiation play from Norway. What we are talking about here is Norway's starting point before the negotiations on a new round in the WTO have begun, where the government parties are going to decide what Norway is going to do in order for the WTO negotiations to actually take place in the future. Then it must be relevant to ask whether the Christian People's Party has changed its mind in relation to the issue of an investment agreement, and whether there is any Christian People's Party now believes it should be negotiated.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e726	As the representative Bjørlo Lysbakken knows, there are so many different bilateral agreements that it is time for a comprehensive multilateral agreement to be established. That's why the Christian People's Party supports the process we're now in, even though we've expressed scepticism in the past. We don't look at expressing scepticism as legally binding.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e731	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e734	I would also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the presentation. International trade can be used both to increase global well-being and to increase poverty. International trade can help both to mitigate and to increase differences, to improve the environment or to destroy it, to raise or reduce ethical standards. International trade can contribute to the maintenance of living small communities and cultural landscapes, and it can destroy small communities and break down the cultural landscape. The design of trade legislation is essential. That is why the current WTO negotiations are very important. Too many see freest world trade as a goal in itself. In our home spirit, we disagree on the blessing of free trade and how far free trade is going to go. The central party believes that the government is going too far in the liberalist direction, but if this is the case, we have a maritime opportunity to have a political debate. However, in an international context, the problem is that a number of developing countries do not have administrative capacity or competence either to hold an internal debate or much less to participate in the comprehensive international processes around and in the WTO negotiations. It is therefore very important that negotiations be conducted with respect for the capacity problems facing developing countries and that the objections raised by developing countries be extremely sensitive. From this point of view, I am very surprised that the Foreign Minister's statement states that the Doha ministerial meeting concluded that there should be negotiations in a number of sectors in addition to agriculture and services. This testifies to a lack of respect for the Doha decision. There was no explicit consensus in Doha, which is required for negotiations to start. I must therefore ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs how he interprets the President's understanding, which was expressed after the end of Doha, and which made possible a result at the Doha meeting. The centre party expects Norway to contribute to a high level of ethical standards in the negotiation process. This includes, inter alia: explicit consensus. The Central Party also expects the Government, in respect of developing countries, to contribute as much as possible to avoiding negotiations between a few countries in enclosed spaces, to working consistently to maximise transparency, and to a resolutely condemning the threat of reprisals by rich countries against developing countries if they do not agree with the views of their respective countries. In the case of Norwegian positions in the negotiations, the view of the Centre is that new themes, i.e. themes other than agriculture and services, have to be postponed or postponed. The WTO agenda should not be extended, mainly for two reasons: firstly, the lack of capacity of the first developing countries, as I have already mentioned, and secondly, there has been no evaluation of the effects of agreements already adopted, effects on global distribution, the environment, health, social standards, etc. As regards agriculture, the Government has put in positions that will have a significant impact on Norwegian agriculture. Now it is essential that the Government maintains those positions and does not give in to the negotiations. If the outcome of the negotiations were to be close to the proposal that is now on the WTO table, it would mean that Norwegian agriculture, as we know it, would disappear. Not only will we lose the opportunity to produce safe, high-quality food in Norway, but we will also lose an important tool for caring for living communities and the cultural landscape of which many of us are proud. A poor WTO agreement will lead to the loss of tens of thousands of jobs, seafaring in agriculture, but also in the food and tourism industries. At a time of increasing unemployment in Norway, this is less of all we need. The proposal on the WTO table is very problematic for far more countries than Norway. Countries with high costs and difficult climate and topography face problems in maintaining their own food production. The proposal does not take into account countries with a low degree of maritime supply and already heavily dependent on imports. It is worth noting that the vast majority of the world's poorest countries are net importers of food. Existing WTO proposals serve unilaterally the large agricultural exporting countries with industrial production. Taps are countries that produce small scale and environmentally friendly. The Foreign Minister’s statement gives the impression that there is a conflict between maintaining a sound Norwegian agriculture and contributing to international solidarity. This is one of the misunderstandings that have to be refuted. The WTO proposal is not a handshake for the world's poor. Food is not a traditional commodity. Food, on the other hand, is a human right, and every country is responsible for feeding its own people. There is, as is known, no Norwegian farmers have found it, it was mentioned in the final documents of the World Food Summit. Dependence on the world food market is a problem as long as purchasing power is dramatically different. We in the rich part of the world will simply be able to buy food out of the mouth of the poor kids of the world. We can't have it like that. As long as countries assume that they are to feed their own population as far as possible, trade beyond this is entirely unproblematic. And we're going to act. That's the condition for the deal that's the question. It is also worth noting that no country has escaped poverty with a unilateral focus on food exports. Countries specialising in food exports will also specialize in poverty. That cannot be what we want. The centre party acknowledges that the ongoing negotiations on agriculture are very demanding. If Norway is to be able to move positions in our direction, extensive work must be done on alliance construction. Very many countries agree that multi-functional agriculture should be taken care of, but the counter-resistances are strong. If Norway had the power to make changes, full pressure had to be put behind it. And the Central Party feels some concern that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is using the WTO negotiations as a break in order to achieve its objectives in terms of agricultural policy, which are enshrined in the Right Programme, and which we have been faced with in the past. I have to say that I was not particularly reassured after hearing the representative of Vallersnes, who made it clear that the positions Norway has now entered into in the negotiations are to be seen as starting positions, and that the Right has greater ambitions for greater liberalisation also in the case of trade in food in the future. It doesn't make me calmer! In the case of trade in services, GATS, it is a major problem that the definitions are not clear, as the representative Bjørlo Lysbakken has mentioned earlier. One of the Articles of the Agreement states that services include any service in any sector other than public services. However, another Article states that public services means services provided neither under commercial terms nor in competition with other providers. In practice, this can be difficult to interpret in a way other than that, contrary to any service in Norway, it should be possible for competitors from abroad to be provided on equal terms with domestic service providers. It will be very useful if the Minister of Foreign Affairs can clarify his understanding of these definitions. I would also like to ask whether he intends to contribute to the clarification of these definitions in the WTO Agreement. The view of the centre party is that services in basic sectors such as health, education, care and distribution, collection and purification of water should be excluded from the WTO Agreement. The Central Party fears that there may be conflicts between our aid policy objectives and our trade policy objectives. The lack of transparency about our GATS positions means that that unrest cannot be resolved by the road, sail if I seamfully hope that there is no basis for having that fear. Finally, WTO negotiations are unusually complicated. Central policy issues tend to disappear in technicalities when discussing the WTO. That should not happen, because, as I said at the outset, this is about very key political issues. I just want to conclude by saying that it is a heavy responsibility of the Government to contribute to the transparency of, and not least understanding of, these processes in Stortinget – we should be able to handle that – but also in public space.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e772	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e775	As I explained earlier in my speech, the current round of negotiations is based on the decisions of the Doha Ministerial Conference, and the negotiations include trade in services, agriculture, market access for industrial products including fish and fishery products, trade and the environment, the TRIPS Agreement and the anti-dumping and subsidy provisions. Now I am to my surprise that the representative Haga recommends the Government to restrict itself to negotiating services and agriculture. Does this mean that the Central Party believes that the other issues are immaterial to Norway, for example: how are fish and fish products handled?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e782	No, the Center Party does not believe in any way that questions such as: related to market access for fish is immaterial for Norway. What we have pointed out is that we believe that the WTO agenda per year. today is full, and the demanding processes to be implemented, both in the case of GATS and in the case of agriculture, are sufficient. It meets the WTO agenda. And not least in respect of developing countries, which we know have problems hanging out with, this process should go very step by step. I think the nuances in this room are very small, when you put developing countries in one bag post. It is true that if we are to have a sensible exchange of views on the positions within the various groupings, we must at least distinguish between the poorest countries and the middle-income countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e789	The representative, Haga, is very critical of most proposals, recordings and positions regarding changes to the WTO Agreement on Agriculture. At the same time, although I fully agree with Mr Haga that the developing countries are a diverse group of different interests, I think most will recognise that overall it is a desire for change. How far you have to go, you can disagree. What changes will the Centre be able to accept in the WTO section and in our agricultural policy to meet some of the developing countries' interests or demands?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e795	I believe that one of the most important things we can do in this round is to help reduce export subsidies. It would be a very important contribution to what we are working on, to take as a starting point for agriculture, to allow countries to develop a production that best meets their needs to feed their own populations. As I've been to, the Center Party has no counter-representation against us acting in general, which sometimes seems to say about us. That's a little bit of a mistake. But as far as agriculture is concerned, we have the principle of helping to feed our own people in the first place, and then we're going to act beyond that. I can absolutely guarantee that the representative, Mr Höglund, will also have bananas in the long term – in the future, I apologize! But what I think we need an international debate on is the basic principles of whether or not we believe that the poorest countries should have the opportunity to feed their own people. Per. Today, unfortunately, it is challenging for too many to be able to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e802	Then Morten Højlund has something to look forward to!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e805	The centre party and the Christian People's Party have often had a parallel view of agricultural policy. We were together on very successful agricultural settlements in the time of the central government, and we have again got a good deal of settlement, with agreements with both agricultural organizations. I think it should be unnecessary to question the Foreign Minister's motives, according to the representative Haga can read in the Right Programme. The Government is pursuing a policy based on the Sem Declaration, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs is pursuing the Government's policy. There are strong formulations here on import protection and on creating new optimism in agriculture. I want to ask the representative Haga if she has heard about the Sem statement – and if she has read it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e814	I fully agree with the representative Rise that this was a completely unnecessary question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e819	It went quickly – the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e822	I would like to start by thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the presentation, which gave a good picture of both the situation in the world economy and the current WTO negotiations. I agree with the considerations expressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs regarding the ongoing negotiations. The World Trade Organisation is probably the most important international economic cooperation institution. Decisions taken here have a significant impact on the formulation of national policies. Against this background, it is unfortunate that too much of the preparations for the negotiations themselves are being made with too little transparency and participation. Increased participation will also help to provide greater insight into the World Trade Organisation, thereby giving the World Trade Organisation greater legitimacy. In a long list of relevant issues related to the World Trade Organisation, the Left, in particular, will highlight the following: 1. the need for the implementation of agreements already concluded2. an understanding that developing countries have limited capacity to negotiate and implement agreements3. the importance of making impact assessments a more integrated part of WTO negotiations; There is a significant need for countries to implement the obligations of the agreements regulating trade in goods. The most critical aspect of the agricultural agreement is the continued — and partly increased — use of export subsidies. The anti-dumping agreement does not have the power to prevent the dumping of agricultural products, with the obvious consequence that in developing countries agriculture could risk losing its competitive position on the domestic market as well. Market access for agricultural products is hindered by the fact that products from developing countries do not always meet sanitary standards. It is important that Norway contributes to the implementation of the commitments under the SPS Agreement, which provide technical support to developing countries for this purpose. Today, the World Trade Organisation manages nearly 20 agreements. Furthermore, it is proposed by the Doha ministerial meeting that negotiations on investment, public procurement, competition rules and trade facilities can begin. These new negotiations are promoted at a time when implementation of the agreements already concluded has not been given sufficient priority, and as many believe that the WTO system is not the best system to promote all four new areas of negotiation. Most clearly, it is in the area of investment. The WTO's non-discrimination provisions relating to trade in goods are much easier to practice than equivalent provisions relating to complex investment issues. The left is positive in assessing international investment rules, but at the same time acknowledges that this is a highly complex issue. Doubts have been raised as to whether several agreements within the World Trade Organisation have been adopted with insufficient knowledge of the consequences in some areas. This applies, inter alia, to: the intellectual property rights agreement, TRIPS. The left is therefore in favour of a more comprehensive impact assessment being carried out before new negotiations begin. Both distributional and ecological conditions need to be assessed, and there is also a central question as to the extent to which implementation of the agreements within the World Trade Organisation contributes to the promotion of internationally recognised human rights, or whether such implementation may make it difficult to guarantee human rights for the population. The Left supports the basis and key principles on which the WTO is based, with common rules on trade, common sanctions and mechanisms for resolving trade conflicts. On the other hand, we are also of the opinion that WTO processes need to become more democratic, in particular the organisation needs to become more open to civil society. Negotiations must be more closely linked and, in practice, the key objective must be sustainable development combined with economic growth. As several countries join the WTO, the WTO may require representation of the institutional framework for world trade. The increase in the number of members has led to the majority of its members being from developing countries. Their share of world trade is still small, but they are increasingly working together to integrate them into international trade. Developing countries must be given greater influence in the organisation and in their own situation. Whereas trade rules must take account of the development stage of the countries; Finally, I would like to make a few comments on the WTO negotiations on agriculture. It is important and necessary that the Norwegian Government pursues alliance construction and active action in the agricultural sector. In particular, dialogue and cooperation with developing countries will be important. For the future of Norwegian agriculture, it will be essential to have a negotiated outcome that will safeguard Norwegian interests and underpins the fact that the majority of WTO member countries – 76 countries in all – have agreed that customs reductions will be implemented in accordance with the same principles as in the Uruguay Round. It is also in line with the Norwegian initial position, and Norway has many allied countries here. The globalisation of trade and the economy must include cooperation and solidarity. The WTO can be one of our main instruments for meeting the challenges of globalisation. It is and should in future also be a perspective we in Norway take with us in our further meeting with this organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e856	Having listened to and then read the Minister for Foreign Affairs' statement on the WTO negotiations, I am left with a crucial question: how does the EU deal with the problem areas that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has mentioned and which have not been particularly highlighted in his statement in the Great Britain? For the Coastal Party, which is not in the Committee on Foreign Affairs or the EEA Committee and which is not allowed to read the EEA Committee's negotiations for a year, it would be desirable if the Minister for Foreign Affairs said something about the relationship between the WTO's negotiating objectives and the EU's policies in the same area. It would provide a better real basis for assessing the impact of Norway’s choices. Usually we hear how important it is for Norway to adapt to the EU – and preferably become a member – if that means that we waive ownership and control of our renewable resources and our oil and gas. However, in the context of the meeting of developed countries with developing countries in the WTO negotiations, the EU may almost seem to play a subordinate role in the WTO. The government insists that without Norway submitting to the EU, either through membership or through the EEA Agreement, it is above and outside the Norwegian industry. Some trade agreements based on WTO legislation are not realistic. If this is not realistic, do we have anything to do in the EU? What is the EU doing to reduce the rates of customs duties that are postponing competition in its own agriculture? Does EU legislation require countries to grant equal access to goods and services, irrespective of their country of origin? Why does Norway not have the same market access for fish as other countries outside the EU? When a new membership debate is underway, should not the Foreign Minister have a special responsibility to inform us of how our main trading partners, this powerful trade union with which we have now negotiated the framework for an extended EEA agreement, relate to the ongoing negotiations? The Coastal Party is pleased that Norway, together with the United States and New Zealand, has taken the initiative to set a final deadline for the closure of industrial customs duties on fish and seafood products. How is the EU doing this? A continent that has been dependent on importing seafood for hundreds of years and that can never be self-sufficient in seafood – why are they insisting on customs duties on Norwegian fish products? How long will EU citizens accept that EU bureaucracy is above EU customs duties? The Minister for Foreign Affairs was involved in maritime transport as our main service exporter, and hopes that a regulation that strengthens Norwegian competitiveness will succeed. The Coastal Party shares that hope, but we have to ask at the same time: why is the Government so unwilling to take the competitively balanced grips that are actually allowed? Why does the Government believe that Norway can win the competition for exports of goods and services if we do not give business a competitive environment similar to that of similar industries in other countries? And what about the investment agreement in the WTO, which, in my opinion, is a continuation of the MAI agreement, which there was a great deal of agreement that we opposed? This applies to shipping, to the melting industry, to all our export products that the framework must be adapted to the industry, and not to the principle of equality. The coastal party will have increased trade. We will act as far as possible in a freest market, but with the protection for our agriculture that ensures security of supply in crisis situations and living conditions throughout the country. We do not say no to the European Union and economic relations. We say yes to trade and vice and financial sanctions, but we say no to bureaucracy and to the Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e873	It is not every day that the newspaper and I agree with each other, but it actually happened on Sunday, when the newspaper had a rather powerful leader under the heading ‘WTO as hope’, which emphasizes that precisely continuing cooperation in the WTO is one of many important points in order to get an international legal order, and to get driving rules in place. I totally agree with Dagbladet on that. I think that without the WTO process being passed on, we get a system that can be more than problematic for small countries, and I join the main conclusion they give: ‘General WTO resistance based on Norwegian special interests is a cross-cutting and dangerous policy in today’s world.’ It is clearly formulated, but I think it is very important that it is also said very clearly from a small country. It is based on the fact that Norway will contribute to trying to bring the Cancún negotiations to a successful conclusion. In this way, I am very pleased that in Stortinget there is clearly a broad majority, which includes the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Government Parties, linked to the Government's positions – the Advance Party with the important reservation that is just about agriculture, which Höglund has emphasised very clearly. But there is no doubt that the main steps the Government wants to take, we can see that there is a broad majority in favour. In this way, the SV and the Center Party are outside this consensus, and I fully respect that they want to go another way, although I have to admit that I am a little uncertain as to which way they want to go, and what practical consequences they want at last. I have to say that I noticed a statement from Jacobsen that trade is too important to be left to the market. When that's the thinking, I have to say that it's really amazing, and SV now has to start clarifying what they really think about some central, important economic issues. They have, after all, taken the aim of becoming a party of government, and then we need to know more about what that kind of statement will really mean in practice. I noticed that the two parties were out of politics for the areas where we have offensive interests. All the comments were about what you didn't like – a purely defensive attitude to the issues we're facing, and it doesn't hold up in a government situation, as I said. The train is now running. It is important to get the Cancún negotiations in place, and I think not least that the problems we now have in the world economy will be very important as a signal that we must succeed in Cancún. It will also depend not least on Norwegian wealth, and both the SV and the Centre are of the fresher ones in the hall when it comes to spending money. I would hope and believe that they might then be concerned with the value creation in Norway to a little greater extent than the posts we have heard so far today, bearing the order. On the question of agriculture, we have been through this in a rather extensive inter-pelling debate a few months ago. There's nothing new to say about it now. That's why I didn't say much about it in my post either, but referred to that very debate. Åslaug Haga reiterated his conspiracy theory on the relationship between Right-wing Policy and WTO negotiations. I think I'll let her keep that conspiracy theory in peace. The policy I expressed both in my presentation and in the interpellation debate is the one that stands. When I've said that this is going to be difficult, I think I have to say it so that I wouldn't fulfill my obligation to be open and honest to Stortinget if I didn't also make it clear that this would be difficult. This does not mean that Norway does not need to add several pressures to the results that we are looking for. We are in a very difficult negotiating position, and we are very conscious of that. The contacts I have had with these questions have emphasized to me that these difficulties are very great, but that does not mean, of course, that we do not go into them with commitment and with the desire to achieve a result. I am therefore pleased that this debate has not brought forward some of the comments I saw in the press after my presentation, among others. on the SV side, which obviously wants more pacifiers and trombones instead of a sober assessment of where Norway is standing. But I would like to stress that it is important that we are aware of the situation we are facing, and that Norway has many interests, not only one defensive interest, but also a good deal of offensive interests. Not least, we have an interest in the success of the Cancún negotiations, in our progress, and in the WTO manifesting itself as the central body it should be, as stated by the President of the Newspaper on the matter. When it comes to service issues, I just want to say that the service agreement does not restrict our national freedom of action to organise the public sector in the way we want. There is nothing in the agreement that obliges countries to sell publicly owned activities, nor is there anything in the GATS agreement that obliges Member States to purchase services from private individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e907	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e910	The Minister of Foreign Affairs stresses something that we fully agree on, that it is important to get a result in Cancún. Can the Minister of Foreign Affairs see the importance of being a bridge builder and perhaps abandon the partners mentioned earlier by the Minister of Foreign Affairs - the EU, Japan and Switzerland - and some of our defensive interests, in order to reach goals, show the way, go ahead and be a good example?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e916	I believe that the key to caring for Norwegian offensive and defensive interests is that Norway is active in the negotiations, connects contacts and ties as far as possible, and that it is realistic in relation to the opportunities that exist. It is quite right, as many have said, that it is a very complex negotiating system, not easy to get an overview of. But I think the keyword is actually activity, also activity in relation to the countries that disagree very much with us in some areas, just to see how we can build bridges. I think it is important that Norway sees itself as an active actor in line with other active actors. It is not that Norway can enter a kind of disinterested intermediate position in important areas. There is too much substance we want to achieve, that it will be possible to take on such a role. I believe it is true not to say that such a role would be natural for any country in these negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e921	I would like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs a simple question without pouches and trombones. It is known that Norway has been a driver in the service negotiations for trade and liberalisation of trade in education services. Norway has both called for this to be done to several developing countries and other countries, and has gone a long way in including education in lists of services we want to liberalise. There has been one case in the media recently, as is also reported on the website of the Australian Ministry of Education’s Committee on Education Services’ Exports, that there has been an international alliance to promote trade in education services. According to the website, this alliance has been named the Norway Alliance, because it is Norway that is now leading this work, according to the website and lectures of the Director of the Export Committee, where he also underlines Norway’s role in this. The objective shall be to establish an alliance for, inter alia: to convince developing countries that trade in educational services is of the good. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs confirm Norway's leadership of an alliance to promote more free trade in education services?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e928	It sounded violently what Bjørlo Lysbakken described. If I am not completely wrong – but I reserve the right to be wrong here – there are conversations in a number of areas in Geneva, and I do not want to ignore the fact that Norway is strongly involved in them. I believe that there are important things Norway can say in this area, not least in terms of distance learning. But to describe it in the dramatic way that Bjørlo Lysbaken did is to oversell this idea. But that's a good idea Norway has put on the table, I don't think there's any particular doubt about it. I don't think you should be so anxious. There is a great deal of anxiety in this area. I think it's better to see what opportunities lie in it, both for Norway and not least for those who receive just high-quality services of the kind we're talking about here. This is in many ways a win-win situation. The problem with SV's handling WTO issues is that the party is so horrific and defensive, and in many ways conservative. Get out of it!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e935	I would first like to express full support to the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the work he is doing in the WTO negotiations. I have a question on the basis that only approx. 5-10 pst. food is traded between nations. This shows that food has to be produced locally. That's pretty much the picture you have on a world-wide basis. From this point of view, I would like to ask whether the Foreign Minister believes that the following two principles should be put forward in the negotiations: firstly, the right of each country to produce for its own population according to its ability – and I believe that we have common interests with the developing countries, which also need to build up their agricultural production – which may be a key principle for obtaining multiple numbers in the current round. Secondly, this must result in the main focus being on reducing export subsidies on agricultural products in order to achieve the potential of each country for such production.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e942	There is no doubt that the area where Norway goes beyond the EU is just about export subsidies. What will then of course be some Europeans' argument is that export subsidies mean relatively more to them than they mean to us, so it's not particularly heroic that we put so much emphasis on this. But I can confirm that I think in many ways that the export subsidies are important to do something about, and the Norwegian offer reflects that question. With regard to the principles to be applied, no one affects the principle that each country has the right to produce its own food. That's not what this is about. This concerns the conditions under which trade is to take place. Norway has always driven imports in these areas, but there are questions about how to deal with the demands that are even stronger than what we have so far. In this area, we have taken clear positions, as I explained in the interpellation debate. Many have taken other positions, and of course there will be difficult negotiations, but we will do what we can to maintain the Norwegian positions, also in the final result.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e949	I think it is bold of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to indicate that the Central Party has no industrial policy, whether we disagree on certain issues concerning the WTO. I think we have developed a much more active industrial policy than what we see from the Government for the time being. But that's not what I wanted to record. As far as agriculture is concerned — I am going back to agriculture — it is such that, with the exception of the Progress Party, everyone in this Chamber agrees that at some level we should maintain a solid Norwegian agriculture. We disagree on the level, seagoing, but I have to admit that the United States and Australia are probably a bigger challenge here than the Right, with or without the Christian People's Party. In the statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs gave the impression that Norway has to complain about giving more in the agricultural negotiations. It's a concern when the Minister of Foreign Affairs is so clear about it. I assume you work actively with alliance construction. [[President clubs]] My question will then – quickly: what is new in the process, and why does the Foreign Minister now express greater concern for the outcome than he did earlier this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e956	There were two points. My point about industrial policy was primarily addressed to the Swedish Government because of the fundamental views expressed by Jacobsen, which, if they are to be taken seriously, will cause Kristin Halvorsen considerable problems when she is to appear as a sort of modern SV, or social democrat, or socialist, or what she wants to present herself as. It is clear that there was a significant step back to Jacobsen's old thinking. But I also have a visit to the Central Party, and this is precisely the lack of interest in the offensive interests that Haga has also expressed in this debate. It's very suspicious. Because if you don't have an interest in them, you can't create the values that the Central Party with the greatest pleasure benefits, both in budgets and in other contexts. So it's not related – this lack of interest in our offensive interests that she expressed. When it comes to the question of whether something more has happened since we talked about agriculture in the interpellation change, I would say that to this extent it has not done so. That's why I also referred to it. I just expressed a main point of view that it might be useful to remember. And, as I said, I wouldn't have fulfilled my duty to be honest with Stortinget if I hadn't said it the way it was.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e965	Trade is too important to be left to the market. Of course, I could pick me up with adjectives, I could say ‘the raw market’, ‘the trap market’ or ‘the free market’. But it is clear that the market must be regulated. That's why we have the WTO, and that's probably the most reason we have the United Nations, which is now trying through UNCTAD to bring about a fairer trade. I'm standing here with a letter that's an intervention in free trade, an intervention in the market. This is a letter from the five Central American presidents. I can assure the Foreign Minister that they are conservative enough, they are far enough from SV to even take them seriously. They're asking the President of the United States to have simple, straightforward negotiations to increase coffee prices, increase commodity prices. We're also very interested in the fact that crude oil prices are going up, up, up. We'd think about that a lot, it'd suck for our wealth for a long, long time, and it'd help the environment as well. But does Norway do something in these negotiations, and does the government do something to raise commodity prices, so we can get fair trade, and – in addition – for the environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e974	I understand that Jacobsen has a good insight into what five Central American presidents think about international trade. That's not what I asked. I asked what SV now really would to the seventh and the last would put on. But I understand that it is easier to have an overview of five Central American presidents than its own policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e979	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e982	There are two questions we are dealing with today. One is about how Norway should act at the Cancún Ministerial Conference, and the other is how Norway should act in the negotiations that are already under way – especially since the service negotiations, or the GATS agreement, since it is our Document No. Eight proposals are being discussed. First of all, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has chosen, through his statement, unreservedly to go on the line that the United States and the EU have taken in, after Doha, with the exception of the agricultural negotiations. One of the most important things the Minister for Foreign Affairs does is that he will later appear to be agreeing among WTO member countries on a new broad round of negotiations to extend WTO legislation to a number of new areas, such as: investment, competition policy rules and so-called transparency in public procurement. It is difficult to understand the explanation in any other way than that Norway takes it for granted that we should have such a new wide round. But what happened in Doha was that India, along with 13 other countries, formed an alliance to prevent this from being taken for granted. They received a passport in the final declaration stating that new negotiations will only begin after an explicit consensus is reached at the Ministerial Conference we are about to begin. They considered that an extension of WTO power and scope would be irresponsible as long as the existing agreements were not sufficiently evaluated and the WTO has not yet done anything to raise development issues on the agenda. This is exactly what the so-called development round was supposed to do. But the only concrete result we've seen now is that the United States has overturned the possibility of setting up an agreement on access to the copying of medicines to poor countries. Therefore, it is not unlikely that many developing countries will be very sceptical about a new wide round, and perhaps also want to take advantage of the possibility of not joining an explicit consensus in Cancún. In a situation where criticism of free trade policy has grown very strongly internationally, we see a strange debate in Norway. The Secretary of State's statement is so completely uncriticised that it almost limits its arrogance to all those who are trying to get a substantive debate going on whether the most free trade actually delivers wealth and development. If we're going to have an international trading system, where everyone acts like the Minister for Foreign Affairs says Norway is going to act, what kind of system do we get? Well, a system where everyone mellows their own cake, and joint effort for development and the environment becomes impossible, because we are always only going to act according to what best suits Norwegian export interests. This means that we stop and think about the possible consequences of free trade only in cases where Norway does not lose anything on it itself, such as the United Kingdom. in relation to the issue of access to medicines and to issues where Norway has industries that are obviously unable to survive in international competition, such as agricultural negotiations. The exact same logic is behind what we have now seen of Norway's positions in the GATS negotiations. The majority of the Foreign Affairs Committee has rejected SV’s proposal to withdraw the requirements of Norway for free trade in its services sectors to developing countries. This is something we have just proposed because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has admitted several times that these requirements only reflect Norwegian export interests and therefore do not take into account development. Of course, our view does not mean that there is anything wrong with dealing with services with developing countries, but it is wrong that Norway should contribute to a pressure for as much deregulation as possible in countries that need to be able to protect the construction of their own service sector. And at least it's going to be wrong if Norway's policy is not governed for development purposes, but only for its own benefit. It is hardly by chance that Norway, according to leaks, has demanded the liberalisation of telecommunications services in exactly Bangladesh, where Telenor is heavy inside. The liberalisation of the service sector in developing countries should be done to the extent that it is perceived to be useful by the country itself and not under pressure from rich countries such as Norway. The requirement S today is, among other things, a requirement that has also been promoted by Care Norway, the Church’s Emergency Youth Organisation Changemaker, the WWF, the Development Fund and the Inter-Church Council. Then the Central Party has noted in the vote that they have chosen not to vote in favour of our proposal, despite their agreement on our starting point, and points out that it is the Government that participates in international negotiations. Of course, we know that. The problem is that the Stortinget has not been made aware of the demands that Norway has sent to developing countries, and that we elected people do not have any opportunity to influence this process until a final draft agreement has to be accepted or rejected in its entirety in a few years’ time. In addition, we are talking here about the offers that Norway made before the negotiation process itself started. Therefore, it would have been right for the Storting to give a clear signal this time. With that, I would like to address the SV's proposal as it is in the Innst. S. No 207.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1000	The representative Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken has drawn up the proposal he made okay for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1003	I will link some points of view to things that have emerged in this debate. I must first state that there is something that I think is both dangerous and a little sloppy, so it is that those who have their commitment and their heart primarily placed on agricultural issues and the areas that we call the defensive interests, believe that then it is a matter of talking at least about what it is perfectly legitimate to talk about at the same time, namely about all the offensive interests Norway has. We humans are equipped so that we can have up to several thoughts in our head at the same time. And politics is often about weighing a little different considerations. I think it is absolutely essential that we be able to argue clearly for what is the important and absolutely legitimate interests Norway has in having a necessary need for protection for our agriculture, while at the same time being able to speak clearly and offensively about all our offensive interests in trade. We should remember that there are few countries, if any, that are so dependent on having markets outside their own country for their products and for their business to take care of their well-being, like Norway. Few countries have such an export-oriented economy as Norway. If we are to have an opportunity, and I think it is very nice to be Minister of Agriculture and be able to stand here and say so, to have an ambitious agricultural policy with considerable budgetary support and an ambitious welfare policy – and the Stortinge adopted yesterday a very ambitious kindergarten policy for the next few years – it requires a business life that can increasingly find export markets to finance this. In a few days' time, the adoption of a continued ambitious agricultural policy, with a high budget ratio, requires a business life that has good access to non-Norwegian markets. That's what a complicated social economy is all about, and it's absolutely legitimate to talk about it. Then it must not be that because if the Minister of Foreign Affairs or anyone else from the Government sometimes talks about the offensive interests of Norwegian business, one is accused of not really caring for agricultural interests. Or as we saw in winter, when the government was accused of over-emphasizing the interests of agriculture, because then there was a lot of lookouts with the Minister of Agriculture and the interests of the WTO. But it is absolutely legitimate for Norway and for all other countries to combine their offensive and defensive interests. Then this has to be balanced. Then one must not follow the thought ‘to outer eggs’, as it says in one of the poems of Olav H. Hauge, which some parts of this room do, and allow the pendulum to turn one or the other direction, in full. So a little bit about the Norwegian position. From some quarters it is suggested that Norway has already gone too far. So Norway is the country that has gone the shortest in wanting to change its position. It has been approved by some other countries as well. I would venture the cautious claim – because I understand that there are some people who say, not exactly how much shorter we should have gone, but that we have gone too far when we've gone the shortest in the world – that the important role to take care of the opportunities for Norwegian agricultural policy, as we are now doing through alliance construction and understanding in many other countries, we would not have made it clear without having informed ourselves in a sensible way in the debate that is taking place in Geneva. Norway, not least the Minister for Foreign Affairs and his department's efforts, contributed to collecting signatures and support from over 70 countries in order to have moderate movements that allow agriculture to be maintained in a country like Norway, but it would not have been possible if we had not signed up with a language that is also spoken by other countries. So my claim is that we couldn't get any shorter if we were to be able to play an important role in the future. But that also means that we have to be very focused on the fact that borders that are for how far we can go, given that we have to meet the objectives of both government and a large majority of people in order to have an ambitious Norwegian agricultural policy. It should be noted that the Norwegian position continues to provide protection for the important agricultural areas of Norway that currently enjoy protection – a little less than in the past, but still provide protection, so that it would be cheaper to bring Norwegian production to the market in these areas than to import at a new and lower rate of duty. The EU position also continues to provide such protection. Then we have some areas that today no longer have a protection. We all see, when we see in the cheese counter today, that we can buy Norwegian cheese at about the same price as imported cheese, which is taken into full customs. Even with that regime, we know that it is sold well because many people want – fortunately – Norwegian production. But in return, we will be able to see that the outcome would be something close to what the WTO administration put forward, almost like a little wake-up call in winter, because the positions were locked up, there will have dramatic consequences for the traditional agricultural areas. The interests of the poor country are important in these contexts. I also want to try to contribute here. I think the leader of the Center Party is very right when she points out that a certain shade is required here, and not that with a little broad brush you paint about the interests of the poor countries. I had the pleasure of -- I'm going to give two interesting examples -- meeting a vegetable farmer in Zambia just before Christmas. He didn't have a large farm, it would be small even on a Norwegian scale, with 20-30 covers in production. There you have the advantage of picking up the carrot one day, you can see the next day, and that's how it can continue the whole year. That means that a small area, after all, can be quite a large area, because you can produce a lot. But he had managed, through a co-organised export programme to Europe, to build a small enterprise on these deacons. He had – apart from himself and his family – four employees, with families, who received a reasonable income in Zambia. This was based on the production of fresh vegetables for Europe. That profit this gave this farmer, made it possible for him to invest in a irrigation plant. Drilling and extracting water cost 15 000 kroner, and it gave a significant opportunity to produce food on such a small area, under climate conditions where water is the big limiting factor. This taught the neighbors, and this was spreading around. As a result, because he could export, and get a small profit, it became possible to produce and deliver much more food — also often to the population of his own country. You can't just say that you export your own people's food. On the contrary, just making a few dollars makes it possible to invest in simple technology, which is necessary to produce a lot more food, also for your own people. So complicated relationships I think we need to be able to have with us. The second example I want to mention was my meeting with a large sugar factory in Mozambique – with 10,000 employees. What made this possible – of course because there are very low wages in Mozambique, but after all, there is a difference between no salary and being able to provide food for the family, and it was absolutely crucial for that sugar factory, and I was given the opportunity to go a little heavily into the figures – was that Mozambique had the opportunity to protect its sugar market from imports from other countries. Because even if the labour force is cheap, there are many other costs that become high in such countries – infrastructure, transport out, investment, technology. However, a lot of things are so expensive that you don't even have a chance of losing low wages, competing with other countries, for example. Brazil and Argentina, in the case of sugar. It was absolutely vital for Mozambique in the phase they are in now, to have a protection for its own food production. However, they were also totally dependent on, in order to have profitability in that company, to enter the EU market with duty-free quotas in order to take very high prices out of the EU market. The alternative, namely a completely free market, free competition in sugar, would eliminate sugar production from large parts of Africa in favour of middle-income countries with a completely different competitive edge. And an important point is precisely to give these countries, which have low competitiveness compared to their competitors in middle-income countries, exclusive access, for example. to the Norwegian market, as the Norwegian Government has done in its policy in this area. I also want to say briefly in this context about the Government's food policy as a right, that it is not a right not to be allowed to import food or a country's right to be alone to feed its people. It is the right of citizens to demand from their country that they make arrangements for individuals to take advantage of a room of action to provide themselves and their families with food, either by producing it themselves, having the economy to buy it, that there is access to food through shops, and that it is an infrastructure, and at worst have a necessary food supply for those who are unable to obtain it. And such a right-wing approach – citizens' rights in a state – I think it is quite essential that we have a food policy and an agricultural policy that enables people to be supplied. I think we're going to be very careful in a debate like this with wondering how far Norway can and should go. It is a bit of the point of having a government that has powers to operate, that a person must be able to assess this on an ongoing basis. But cut to the bone: the central point of Norwegian agriculture is the question of market access, that it is possible through the necessary customs tariffs to have a production in Norway. We are a high-cost country, and in addition, our Lord has made sure that we have climatic and other conditions that make it very difficult to produce large volumes at low prices. It is therefore necessary for us, we should have a production, to be able to offer prices to Norwegian producers that enable us to cover at least variable costs, and that there is a contribution to the fixed costs. I also think there'll be room for us to use budgetary resources to produce collective goods. Because we can transport meat from a farmer in Argentina to Norway, but we cannot transport cultural landscapes and important environmental values from a farmer in Argentina to Norway – Norwegian farmers must produce it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1029	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1032	I feel that much of the Council's commitment is to protect Norwegian agriculture as it is mainly today. And that's okay. Could another strategy be to seize the opportunity offered by this WTO process to carry out the necessary restructuring of agriculture to be a little ahead of the requirements that come – perhaps not now, but more likely in a short time – and that we could change agriculture from being a so-called defensive interest to perhaps, at some point in the future, becoming an offensive interest?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1037	There is a restructuring of Norwegian agriculture at such a speed that it is almost difficult to keep up with now. In my opinion, it is completely inappropriate to argue for a faster transition than the one currently taking place – at least for someone who has to take responsibility for the development that is taking place. It becomes very misleading, I feel, to extend the terms ‘defensive’ and ‘offensive’ interests more than they are. They are more expressive, reflecting the areas in which market access is needed in other countries, and the areas in which customs protection is needed. Norway has many offensive interests in agriculture, and we see a trend in agriculture today, where agriculture is not only a volume-competitive producer of prices and costs, but where other types of agricultural products that we know do not have the same competition. The border country between agriculture and tourism and many other areas we know has a completely different natural protection, and of course we have to develop it further, while taking care of as much of the volume-producing as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1042	The Jären is probably the most intensive agricultural area in northern Europe, where one produces the most if one measures either on the basis of the number of animals per person. area or from nitrogen consumption. I understand that we have intensive agriculture in Norway, and we also have a low-intensity agriculture. We're going to have both of these. But what we can do about the conversion of Norwegian agriculture is look at the input factors. I'm not going to use the word "organic," but we can approach it. So I want to ask the Minister of Industry, how does this kind of work go? And then we have to look at what's the basis for export subsidians, because if we have overproduction, that's what's the basis for all export subsidians, that's why we have them. What does one do to improve market regulation? And then we have to go to Zambia. In connection with the distribution from the State Council, we have received a message from the Church's Emergency Aid and from the Swedish Union for the Protection of Nature. The Church's Emergency Service is talking a lot about this with water. But it is problematic to take water for vegetable production when it might have been used for drinking water instead. So it's not as easy as sending vegetables from Africa to Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1053	There is an important contribution from the representative Jacobsen here in terms of the need to also look at how to adapt Norwegian agriculture to meet also stronger objectives than having effective volume production. Organic farming is an important contribution in this way, because it burdens resources – other resources produced elsewhere – less, but delivers at least as much cultural landscapes, for example, for which I am fully convinced that there will be an increase in the willingness to pay in the future in Norwegian society. In this way, we need a diversity of different types of agriculture in Norway, both extensive and intensive, and I share the view that Jären is an important food chamber for Norway. Export subsidies are not very extensive in Norway. What we know most is the export of Jarlsbergost, as approx. 2000 milk producers are behind. That is important enough, but that is perhaps the area where we can most discuss adaptations from the Norwegian side, something the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been in.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1060	The centre party is accused by the Minister of Agriculture of not being able to have two thoughts in his head at the same time. We can accept that, but I sincerely hope that the Government will have more than two thoughts in its head when it engages in the WTO negotiations, for these negotiations are about far more than Norwegian offensive and defensive interests. They're about what the world looks like in relation to the environment, and how we're going to be able to distribute resources globally. Furthermore, they are about what social standards we are going to operate with internationally. I think that you might be involved in minimizing the importance of these negotiations. In fact, they are unusually important – at a time when we know that trade is becoming more important and important. It is about creating a framework for this trade, so that we take international care of distribution, environmental considerations, social standards, etc. You can blame me too much, but I have seen, after all, a part of international negotiations, and I know how the developing countries struggle to stick to the agenda that is already there. [[President clubs]] - It's time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1069	This is great. The government would like more precise advice from the head of the Central Party than the general rhetoric that the government is going too far, the government is too liberal, etc. How far would we have gone? Should we not have moved at all – and really had nothing to do in the negotiations in Geneva? I want the representative to be a little more precise – not only has this overall rhetoric – when she has something to contribute, because I am sure she has. How do you do that? We need good forces to contribute when we are to care for Norwegian agricultural interests while we are going on with other tasks. Then there's a lot of talk about what connection there is between agriculture and other relationships. In any case, it is the agricultural link that breaks through and provides solutions that is the key to getting other tasks started. That's why it's important that we get through the door together by opening it with this key, so that we can start negotiations in many other important areas as well. I fully agree with this, and Norway has a lot to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1078	It is not by chance that most of the leaders — I was saying — in the agricultural organisations just come from Rogaland, because that is where Norwegian agriculture can collapse. If the cooperative entity that has been in Norwegian agriculture for almost a hundred years clicks, everyone will fight against everyone. It will be a great loss for Norway. State Council Sponheim called something very interesting, almost 2,000 producers who need to get away if we cut off the export subsidians, and if we cut out the Jarlsbergosten. Then the question is, can the Council of State contribute to a policy where, instead of cutting out 2,000 producers, one reduces production flat, distributed over all milk producers? One can cut a little bit on the force supply, a little on fertilizers and in addition to spraying, there is one there to be. One gets instead of overproduction an employment effect of what we allow here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1087	I hope and believe that it will also be possible for the 2000 milk producers to continue producing in Norway. The interesting thing is that in winter periods, the export of Jarlsbergost has also been without subsidies because of the exchange ratio, especially in the case of dollars against dollars. I would like to remind you that the same milk producers also own a significant production of Jarlsbergosten which has now been added to the United States, which is completely cost-effective and has a good economy, and which also allows milk producers to take out the economy they have. However, the general view that we should somehow reduce all agricultural inputs other than labour use, thus compensating for its increased use — a kind of reverse a few decades ago — I think it is difficult for the Minister of Agriculture to express here. It will require a budget statement that I think it will be difficult to gather a majority for in this house, and I don't think that's desirable either. Farmers, like others, will take part in the development of income in society, and then one more will have to supply increasing output values to do so. In an economy, benefits and benefits are linked.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1097	No more words have been asked for. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1102	I do not take the floor to draw the debate in length, but I would like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to sign once more, so that he may come back to the question I asked him in the change of line after his post. The Minister of Foreign Affairs gave an answer that was about why the Government believes free trade in education services is good. I respect that the Government seems, but my question went specifically to the information obtained in the media, which also goes back to the website of the Australian Ministry of Education's Committee on Exports for Education Services, that an international alliance has been set up to work actively to promote the free trade in education services. Norway is the leader of this work and the alliance is even called the ‘Norway Alliance’ or the ‘Norway Alliance’. One of the objectives of this shall be to convince developing countries that trade in education services is of the good. What I want the Foreign Minister to respond to is whether he knows about this, and whether he can confirm or deny that Norway plays such a role.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1111	As the representative Bjørlo Lysbakken probably remembers, I also answered that question. But I can repeat it as far as I can. It is therefore an informal group of WTO countries that discusses how quality considerations can be taken into account in negotiating. This group includes both industrialised countries and developing countries. I therefore maintain what I said, that the description Bjørlo Lysbakken gave in his previous post became a bit violent in relation to the reality that I have again explained here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1118	No more people have asked for the floor to speak on the matter. 3 and 4. [[Food, see page 3336]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1134	This matter concerns the acceptance of an amendment to the agreement between Norway and Iceland and the EC concluded on 19 January 2001 on criteria and mechanisms for determining the country responsible for examining an asylum application submitted in Norway, Iceland or a Member State by including the Dublin II Regulation of 18 February 2003. The agreement concluded between the EU Member States in 1990 on the link with Dublin legislation made the Dublin Convention applicable in relations between the EU Member States, Norway and Iceland. The Dublin Convention lays down rules on the State responsible for examining an asylum application under the 1951 United Nations Convention on Refugees. The proposed amendment incorporates the Dublin II Regulation into the association agreement to replace the Dublin Convention. The Dublin II Regulation regulates the same issues as the Dublin Convention but aims to modernise and streamline the rules. When Schengen cooperation entered into force in 1995, checks on persons at the borders between the Schengen States were lifted. The open borders in Europe make it easy for everyone to travel freely, even for those who want to seek asylum in several countries or who disappear when they no longer have the right to stay. Dublin cooperation is thus closely linked to Schengen cooperation. It appears from the Schengen Cooperation Agreement that ‘an appropriate mechanism should be agreed on on criteria and mechanisms to determine the country responsible for examining an asylum application submitted in a Member State of the European Union or Iceland or Norway’, and that such a mechanism should be established within the operational Schengen cooperation for the Nordic States. Schengen cooperation started on 25 March 2001 and Dublin cooperation started on 1 April 2001. The Dublin Law Agreement includes the Dublin Convention and two decisions of the Dublin Convention’s decision-making body. The Agreement also links Norway and Iceland to the Council Regulation establishing Eurodac for the comparison of fingerprints with a view to the effective implementation of the Dublin Convention, the Eurodac Regulation. Furthermore, the Agreement allows for Norwegian and Icelandic links to both current and future decisions in this area. Like the Dublin Convention, the Dublin II Regulation does not regulate the conditions for granting asylum. Norwegian law and international obligations will thus continue to regulate who is to be granted asylum in Norway. Article 4 of the Association Agreement states that the Commission shall immediately inform Norway and Iceland of the adoption of a new act. Norway, for its part, must notify its acceptance of the act to the General Secretariat of the Council and the Commission within 30 days of its adoption. Both the Dublin Convention and the Dublin II Regulation aim to ensure effective access for asylum seekers to the procedures for determining refugee status by preventing asylum seekers from being referred back and forth between countries without having the application examined. An asylum seeker is entitled to have his application processed in one country and rules are given as to which country has an obligation to deal with the case. Both legislation also seeks to prevent the misuse of the asylum institution which occurs when the same person is applying for asylum at the same or different times in several Member States with a view to extending his or her stay in the EU. The EU has learned that cooperation under the Dublin Convention has not been fully effective. Therefore, the Dublin II Regulation seeks to correct its shortcomings and uncertainties. The Dublin II Regulation seeks to streamline the procedure for determining the country responsible for examining an asylum application so as to speed up the processing of the application. Furthermore, the Regulation provides for greater protection of family unity and the right to family life by applying for family members to be treated in the same country. At the same time, the protection of lone minor asylum seekers is strengthened. Norway has been consulted on the EU negotiations on the Regulation through meetings of the Joint Committee established in accordance with Article 3 of the Association Agreement. Chapter 3 of the Proposition details the provisions of the Dublin II Regulation and refers to this review. The adoption of the Dublin II Regulation will result in the need for amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act and Regulation where these refer to the Dublin Convention. Amendments to the foreign legislation in addition to this are not required, as the changes resulting from the Dublin II Regulation do not conflict with existing law and regulations. The Committee points out that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs will promote an odelstingsproposition with the necessary legislative changes. Overall, the Dublin II Regulation is estimated to reduce the duration of proceedings by 14 weeks. The shorter duration of proceedings will have consequences both for the police and the UDI and for the duration of the residence of asylum seekers in reception, which will mean a potential for savings. The Dublin II Regulation represents an estimated 3.6 million additional expenditure for the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. kr for 2003, of which 0,6 million. Reference is made to an increased resource demand on an annual basis of three annual works in the UDI. Additional expenditure for 2004 is estimated at 8.5 million. SEK, divided by 5 million. SEK in investments and 3.5 million. NOK in operating costs. For the Ministry of Justice, the additional expenditure in 2003 is estimated at 1.4 million. kr. This corresponds to an increased resource demand of eight years’ work in the police, i.e. 4.4 million. kr on an annual basis. The Committee considers it desirable for Norway to align itself with the rules of the Dublin II Regulation, by strengthening the status of asylum seekers by improving the effectiveness of the system, so as to speed up the processing of applications. Greater protection is provided for family unity and the right to family life by applying for family members to be treated in the same country. At the same time, the protection of lone minor asylum seekers is strengthened. The Committee notes that the Dublin II Regulation regulates the same issues as the Dublin Convention but aims to modernise and streamline the rules. However, like the Dublin Convention, the Dublin II Regulation does not regulate the conditions for granting asylum. Norwegian law and international obligations will thus continue to regulate who is to be granted asylum in Norway. Acceptance of the Dublin II Regulation will result in the need for amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act and Regulations where they refer to the Dublin Convention, but amendments to the foreign legislation are not required, since the amendments resulting from the Dublin II Regulation are not contrary to existing law or regulation. The Committee points out that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs will promote an odelstingsproposition with the necessary legislative changes. Like the Government, the Committee is also concerned that the Dublin II Regulation strengthens the status of asylum seekers by making the system more efficient, so as to speed up the processing of applications. This will increase the protection of family unity and the right to family life by seeking to ensure that family members are treated in the same country and that the protection of single minor asylum seekers is strengthened. If the implementation of the Dublin II Regulation would result in increased expenditure for municipalities and county municipalities, the Committee would assume that these are covered by the State. The Committee's recommendation on this matter is unanimous, and we believe that the change improves the present system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1187	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3336]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1203	Cross-border crime is one of the most important challenges we face today. If we are to be able to fight this, the fight must be waged in several areas at the same time. Kofi Annan has said that the three greatest threats to the world today are weak states that have no legitimacy, terror and organized criminals using warlike instruments. There's a close link between these three threats. Terrorism and organised crime play a part in weakening the legitimacy of a state, and weak states lacking legitimacy in the population are often marked by terror and organised crime. The organized international crime is raw. It is based on violence and fear, it has power and profit as its only goal and is completely undemocratic in its being. In recent years, we have seen that organised crime has also received international networks. The fight against organised crime must therefore be conducted globally, regionally, nationally and locally. If we are to win this fight, we must cooperate at least as well as the criminals. Globally, the UN Convention against Transboundary Organised Crime and its complementary protocols on trafficking in human beings, trafficking in women and children and the illicit production of arms trafficking are our main instrument. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that it is a unanimous committee that advocates ratification. Lack of international legislation to combat such crime has posed a threat both to countries and to each individual. With this Convention and its protocols, we now have an instrument that we can use in the fight against organised crime. The aim is that, with international cooperation, we will be able to prevent and reduce this type of crime more effectively. The Convention obliges States to criminalise participation in an organised group of criminals, money laundering, corruption and anti-judicial activities. The Protocol on trade in human beings provides more complementary rules. The purpose here is to suppress trafficking in human beings, especially in relation to women and children, and to protect them and help the victims. The fight against prostitution and trafficking in women and children is very important in combating organised crime. Here, countries must work together to ensure these people a decent life free of fear and exploitation. For Norway, good cooperation between the Nordic countries and the Baltic countries is very central, as we know that a lot of human trafficking is happening right here. We need to be able to run this fight on more levels. It is important that we coordinate our actions and work together towards common goals. However, strict legislation needs to be complemented by other measures. We also need to put in place prevention measures, develop a good early intervention system and have good treatment and care measures. Smuggling and trafficking in people jeopardize their lives and safety. I am therefore pleased that the supplementary protocols also place great emphasis on protecting the victims of trafficking in human beings. Here, as far as possible, states are required to protect the identity and privacy of the victims and to provide them with assistance to promote their views. Each country must consider implementing measures aimed at the physical, mental and social treatment of victims of trafficking in human beings. Children will have a special need here for housing, education and care. We have a duty to give them that. Victims of such inhuman treatment shall be assisted and protected with full respect for their human rights. Organised crime is generally a major threat to society and individuals than to other crime. Organized crime is destructive to the legal security of the individual citizen, organised crime is destructive to democracy, and it is destructive to respect for the will of the majority and to democratic institutions. Democracy requires respect for law and order. If we cannot combat the criminal networks, we will undermine the foundation of our societies. Organized crime undermines the idea of building a welfare society together. Crime and corruption are not based on Community values. Financing, conservation and further development of the welfare society therefore require respect for democratic rules of play, for law and order and for a continued fight against crime. We who live in a state of law cannot accept that criminal elements are allowed to evolve. Criminal groupings must not be allowed to get a foothold in the legal part of society. Therefore, we cannot allow money earned on criminal activities to be invested in the legitimate business community. We've seen in recent years that money laundering and economic crime have received more attention, and the seriousness of this type of crime has been taken more seriously. However, the need to find good and effective means to combat this remains, unfortunately, strong. The reactions to economic crime are low measured against other types of crime, for example: drugs. We must therefore receive stricter penalties for several types of financial crime. Then we will clearly show the seriousness of this type of crime. There is usually a close link between terrorism and organised crime. Terrorist organisations finance their activities through international criminal networks. Here too, the world community must cooperate and fight for the values we believe in. It's important, but our goal doesn't conjure up the average. In the fight against terrorism and organised crime, we must respect the values we have taken on to defend ourselves. The conflict must therefore be fought within the framework of international human rights and the principles of the rule of law. The fight against organised crime must be waged at all levels, globally as local. We need to change the specific problem areas, and we need to remove the underlying causes. We must dare stand up and take responsibility. The most dangerous weapon the criminals have is fear and indifference.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1236	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3336]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1251	The use of children in armed conflicts is one of the worst forms of child abuse and should therefore be prohibited. No government forces or military groups will admit that they use children as soldiers, and the number of child soldiers is therefore somewhat uncertain, but UNICEF estimates that at least 300,000 children are used as soldiers today. The main reason children are used as soldiers is that they are easier to abuse, cheaper than adult soldiers, easier to manipulate and make few demands. That it's relatively easy to force children to become soldiers, doesn't mean that there's an easy way back. Being forced to kill causes extensive harm to children: they have difficulty adapting to normal life, and many have behavioral problems and learning problems. It again poses a danger to the hope of lasting peace. Increasing the age limit for children in armed conflict from 15 to 18 years is one measure that can prevent children from being used as soldiers. It is therefore gratifying that there is a unanimous committee behind the vote on consent to the ratification of the optional Protocol on Children in Armed Conflict to the UN Convention on the Rights of Children. Since liberation groups, insurgents or other non-governmental actors often recruit and use children under the age of 18 as soldiers, the Protocol states that States shall prohibit and criminalise such activities. The Parties shall cooperate on the implementation of the Protocol and a voluntary fund shall be set up to assist in its implementation. The Parties shall report to the United Nations Children’s Committee on national implementation. In the case of voluntary recruitment to armed forces of a State, the Protocol opens up the possibility for States to commit themselves to an age limit of 16, 17 and 18 years. This compromise was necessary for the adoption of the Protocol. Norway is now committed to an age limit of 18 years. It may not mean much to us that we now in Norway are increasing the limit from 15 to 18 years in order to be able to participate in the armed conflict, because we are not forcing children into war. We don't train and recruit children to become cynical soldiers. Still, it affects us. Among our many young refugees and asylum seekers, there are more with background as a child soldier. It is therefore our specific task to give help to the children who are now our responsibility. But we don't have to stop there. We must ensure that the child soldiers who live in war zones today are also helped. For all children, the right to protection and protection shall apply. All children have fundamental rights which shall not be infringed. All children have the right to a worthy life. How are we going to help the child soldiers for a future? War experiences hurt children mentally and can cause them trauma. It means that they are still reminded of terrible experiences, as a threat to life or of serious harm. In order to protect themselves from these feelings, many children are forcing the bad memories. They avoid contact with their own emotional life, which can easily make them indifferent and lead to major behavioral problems. In a school situation, such trauma will be in the way of learning. We know that the civil war in Sierra Leone led to many traumatized children. Here, children were raped, injured, forced to become soldiers and systematically abused. They were made addicted to drugs in order to be able to carry out the atrocities imposed on them. If they refused to participate in the assaults, they were in danger of being killed. These traumas must be processed with treatment and guidance, both for the children who have fled to another country and for those who continue to live in conflict areas. We should also remember that children are hit and attacked in war. Schools are targets. The last decade is two million. children killed in armed conflicts, and over six million. is permanently physically damaged. Every day, 356 children are killed in war. Children are maimed by landmines and grenades, children are chased for flight because of war, and their right to health and education is taken from them. That is why we must prevent war and change the underlying economic, political and social causes of child involvement in armed conflicts. There is a need for an effective fight against poverty, in which children’s rights are respected. We also have to do something more about the very cause of the problem. Poverty, war and conflict, unemployment and inequality are often causes of child abuse. In particular, lack of training is an important reason. Children living on the streets or experiencing other care failures are particularly exposed to crime and exploitation. Without learning, children are not allowed to promote their rights or improve their social situation. Education for children is therefore the number one job in our development policy. I believe this is a central measure to better protect children from being drawn into armed conflicts. Children have the right to protection. Therefore, abuse of children must be higher on the political agenda. That's what the Christian People's Party will fight for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1277	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3336]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1293	The OSCE has played a significant role in recent European history since it all started with the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe in 1975, where the Soviet Union's party leader Leonid Breshnev played an important role. He had probably not imagined that the conference he was taking the initiative in, would gradually develop into an organization that would promote multi-party systems, freedom of speech, freedom of printing and freedom of religion throughout the former Soviet Union and throughout the Eastern bloc. KSSE – and since the OSCE – has become increasingly important following the fall of the wall in 1989 and the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991. The OSCE has been given tasks that neither the UN, NATO, the EU nor the Council of Europe can take over. The OSCE, together with the Council of Europe, is helping to provide opportunities for dialogue and cooperation between countries with a Christian cultural background and Muslim countries. Some of the worst conflicts and wars we've had in Europe in the last 15 years have just been wars between Orthodox Christian cultures and Muslim cultures. It was hardly by chance that Russia supported Serbia well along the way in the Kosovo war. Here there was coherence and solidarity between two orthodox nations. The war between Armenia and Azerbaijan and Nagorno-Karabakh, the war in Chechnya, the war in Macedonia and the war in Kosovo are all examples of Muslim-Orthodox conflicts in Europe. Against this background, the OSCE plays a very important role in its field activities, with early warning of conflicts and efforts to prevent conflicts. Given the cost to the international community of maintaining military forces only in Kosovo, conflict prevention appears to be a much better option. We may run the risk that the final bill for Kosovo will amount to several hundred billion kroner. There is also reason to believe that the forces in Macedonia must be prepared to stand there for many years to come. That makes sense, therefore, to alert conflicts early and then put in work to prevent the same conflicts, and here the OSCE is doing a very important job. When Norway, the EU and Russia now agree that the legal status of the OSCE should be clarified, we should perhaps question whether it is right to allow the United States to veto, so that the United States can decide that the OSCE will not have this status. This is something that should be discussed in the OSCE in the future. An overall committee also stresses the importance of further work on this issue of legal status. It is clear that a convention, rights and privileges will be an important step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1304	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 3336]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1320	At the request of the Industry Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Centre Party, the Left and the Coastal Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Then the president has been asked if he will run this case finished at this morning's meeting. To that, the president would say that it depends on how many speakers are left at 5 p.m. 15th The President is prepared to continue beyond the regulatory time if we can expect to finish in 20-30 minutes, but there is also the limit. There are other meetings that will also take place during the break.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1331	On 31 January 2003, the EEA Committee decided to incorporate the Patent Directive into the EEA Agreement. It is clear from the wording that, since this is a particularly important matter and the Directive necessitates legislative amendment, it is necessary that the Stortinget agrees with the decision of the EEA Committee under the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. In the landfill proposal, which underlies this treatment, the Storting has been asked for such consent. In connection with the decision of the EEA Committee, Norway made a statement, which I will return to the contents of later in this introduction. The Patent Directive regulates access to patents for inventions related to biological material, i.e.: patents for inventions relating to genes and genetic material and patents on procedures for the manufacture of such material. There has been a very long process in the EU on this directive. It began in 1988 when the Commission presented a draft directive on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions. The background was that, for industrial policy reasons, they wanted a uniform legal protection of biotechnological inventions in the EU. The Commission’s draft took many laps in the EU system and, finally, the draft prepared was rejected in 1995. The main reason at the time was that there was too little consideration for ethical and social considerations. A new draft was then submitted, and in order not to go too detailed to do so, I just mention that the last draft, followed by most of the objections, was presented in August 1997 and finally discussed in February 1998. Twelve Member States, including Denmark, Finland and Sweden, voted in favour of the proposal, while the Netherlands voted against and Italy and Belgium abstained. In October 1998, the Netherlands went to the Court of Justice of the European Communities with the Directive in order to bring it to an end and in October 2001 the Court of Justice of the European Communities delivered its judgment. They concluded that there was no basis for ineffectiveness. The status is now that most EU countries have implemented the Directive or are implementing it. Sweden will deal with it until the autumn, while France is having a debate on Article 5 of the Directive on the patenting of human genes. The French Government is therefore preparing a new draft legislative proposal, where certain clarifications related to the patenting of human genes are likely to be made. I have spent so much time describing the history of this directive to stress that it has not been an easy matter and that it has taken a long time to arrive at the position currently under consideration. This also shows that there is a directive that has been worked on a great deal, precisely in the light of the fact that it is not an easy matter. It has also created a debate here in the country, and the issue of the patenting of plants and animals has been debated repeatedly here in the United Kingdom. Both in the proposition and in the summary of the vote, a description of what the EEA Committee has decided and what the Directive contains is given. As I said earlier, the aim is to promote business policy and to improve the competitiveness of biology. The EU's justification is to introduce the same laws in this area as the United States and Japan. In the case of Norway, large parts of the Directive are in accordance with current Norwegian patent law and practice. Patents are currently granted on inventions related to genes, cells and micro-organisms, provided that the general conditions for patenting are met. The directive requires that we allow for the patenting of inventions relating to plants or animals. However, the Directive prohibits, inter alia: patents contrary to fundamental ethical principles in each country. One must seek the Patent Board in order to obtain a patent if they examine whether the conditions are met. The invention must be new and no patents are granted on pure discoveries. The exclusive right to the patent lasts for 20 years. The definition of an invention can be described as follows: how a plant can be used for the production of medicinal products, while in its natural environment the plant can continue to be freely exploited. A patent in Norway does not confer exclusive rights abroad, for example: in developing countries. Nor does a patent confer any right to use inventions prohibited by other legislation. Those opposed to the Directive have raised objections to ethics, to developing countries and to the environment. As regards ethics, the statement made by Norway in connection with the decision of the EEA Committee, which included: read: «Norway acceptance of the Directive as part of the EEA Agreement is based on the application of fundamental principles that protect human dignity and integrity and the human body, and in accordance with the obligations of international law arising from the Convention on Biological Diversity». As a result of this declaration, and probably also as a result of the disagreement between the Government and the Directive, the Government has notified a number of measures to ensure that this is done. These can be summarised as follows: 1st@item: inlistbox The government will exploit the scope of the Patent Directive in order to restrict its practice. This would prevent patenting being too easy and patent protection being extended too far. Norway will also address a restrictive line internationally.2. The applicant for a patent shall indicate where the genetic raw materials of the invention have been obtained. A breach of the obligation to provide information shall be punishable, but the application shall not be rejected.3. Farmers shall be entitled to use breeding animals for their own agricultural purposes, without remuneration to the patenter.4. Intervention against the misuse of patents should be facilitated, for example: if the price is unreasonably high.5. Patents which are found to collide with fundamental ethical principles, such as: certain patents concerning human biological material.6. An ethical name is established with which the Patent Board can consult. This would provide a better basis for assessing whether the inventions are contrary to fundamental ethical principles, so that the patent can be refused.7. The government wants Norwegian participation in trade union selections in the EU, such as: provide ethical advice in relation to the Patent Directive.8. Norway will support a proposal from the European Parliament to amend the Directive to exempt human genes from patenting9. Norway shall actively pursue the interests of the developing countries. Norway shall, inter alia: participate actively in the development of mechanisms to ensure a fairer international distribution. This concerns both the exploitation of own genetic resources and the protection of traditional knowledge. In addition, there is also work to be done in order to investigate measures to achieve the objectives of the Convention on Biodiversity, inter alia. available through own genetic resources and fair distribution of dividends from the exploitation of genetic resources. The government has promised that they will follow up the work done by the Biodiversity Commission. Against this background, we support the request of the Government to approve the directive in the Workers' Party. We believe that the attention given to this Directive, and the measures put forward by the Government, will lead to the Directive becoming a business policy boost also for Norwegian enterprises in the area, and to their being able to compete on equal terms with the rest of Europe and the rest of the world. We also believe that the measures taken by the Government will ensure that the appeals raised by many against the directive will not be taken. Case rapporteur Olav Aksensen is not present today, so I can also take on his role. The majority behind the setting consists of the Working Party, the Advance Party and the Right. In the case of the minority, which consists of the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, they themselves will explain their views. So I just want to comment on the proposal from the SV and the Center Party -- so I've commented on it and I don't want to go up again -- with the background of my post and with the background of what's in the proposition on page 71, where the Government says: ‘In a resolution adopted on 21 November 2002, the European Parliament asked the Commission to propose amendments to the Patent Directive to exclude isolated human genes or parts of genes from patenting, see Chapter 2.2.3. Norway will express support for such a change in the relevant forums.’ I believe that the Government has responded to this proposal by Åsa Elvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, asking them to turn it into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1405	The representative, Grethe Fossli, has made an excellent presentation of the Committee's position, of the proposals for patent legislation implementing the Patent Directive in Norwegian legislation, and also of how to regulate access to exclusive rights, i.e. patents, on inventions related to biological material. It is not possible to undermine the fact that this directive has a history that is well known in the political environment, not only in Norway, but in all countries that have had to put this patent directive on their agenda. The process in these countries has brought the matter up and down and has led to the fact that many of the issues that were very controversial and difficult to deal with in their time have gradually been dealt with. The considerations that should and should be taken care of have been safeguarded in such a reassuring way that I believe that we can today safely conclude that through this processing, which has not least been carried out in the other EEA and EU countries, we have achieved a final result that is to be considered very satisfactory. I think it's worth being aware that a patent itself does not give the right to exploit or exercise the invention itself. The exercise of patents on biotechnology invention is covered by a number of national laws and regulations, on which the representative Fossli was concerned. We have in Norway, among others. biotechnology law, genetic engineering law, pharmaceutical and animal protection laws, product control, pollution law, etc. These are laws that, in this context, will be subject to the patent law as regards exercise rights. It is by means of these laws that we shall first and foremost protect ourselves from the things that I believe will certainly be mentioned by the nature of the unethical and unwanted consequences a little further into the debate. In this respect, I am pleased that the Government is proposing to exercise good control over all genetically modified products, so that the consumer in Norway will not have any reason to worry about the implementation of the Directive in Norwegian legislation. From the Right, it is a natural objective for Norway to appear as an attractive country for research and product development in the field of biotechnology. In fact, the Patent Directive is an important contribution in this area. The biotechnology industry has emphasised that Norway needs to have as good framework conditions in this area as the countries with which we are going to compete. Lower patent protection in Norway than in the EU and other western countries can, of course, lead to the loss of ground in this area by Norway. Therefore, there has been almost a unison feedback from the Norwegian biotechnological environment, from business organisations and from Norwegian patent law experts that we can safely go in to implement the directive in Norwegian legislation. The EEA Agreement shall ensure that the Norwegian industry in the EEA countries has equivalent access to the internal market through common rules and legislation. And by incorporating the Patent Directive into the EEA Agreement, we will achieve a level playing field and the same legal framework as in the EEA area. A parallel development of legislation is a prerequisite for a functioning internal market. Being outside such inclusion could significantly harm the Norwegian biotechnology industry. If we are to get even close to having the common goal that we have all set for Norway to be one of the world's most innovative countries, we must give this industry good conditions. We simply need to improve the framework conditions for the knowledge-intensive industry, the knowledge-intensive industry. And the conditions for patenting are in this area of alpha and omega. We will be hit hard if we experience that the conditions for patenting will be significantly better in our neighbouring countries, in our competitors, than in Norway. We all know that the so-called "life science" industry is an industry that grows annually by 15-20 pst. independent of the cyclical picture around itself. And already today Norway is very small in this area, compared to our neighbouring countries. We can draw Denmark and Finland out as two examples here. By standing outside, we will experience that we will get a cost picture of patenting that puts us in a very difficult situation at cost. Already today we see that patenting in Norway has an average price of approx. NOK 100000 over average EU costs. In comparison, we know that patenting in the United States amounts to 1/3 of the costs in the EU. And when we know that a small, modern and mature biotechnology company in Norway often has around 14–16 patents, we understand that the cost picture means a lot in this context. As stated in the Norwegian declaration of incorporation into the EEA Agreement, several provisions of the Directive provide for a certain degree of scope for implementation. There was also Grethe Fossli in a reassuring way inside. I would just like to conclude by saying that there is an international consensus that biotechnology is very important for the development of the medical, health, food and marine sectors. It is also important that we give these industries, our professional authorities and our industry the same opportunities in this area as others have. In the Right’s view, it is not very sensible to have a high-tech, modern country such as Norway as the only Western country that would limit the industrial framework conditions for the biotechnology industry. We are in a scientific revolution related to biology as a result of the new technologies, and Norway will be acquitted culturally and industrially if we thereby refuse to incorporate this directive. I will also mention the environmental protection area – and environmental technologies – as an area that will be more closely involved in the future under the concept of biotechnology. And finally, with all the counter-conceptions that have come here, I think we have to think very carefully about what kind of effect it would have in the big world that small Norway, with 4.5 million. people, who were almost the only country in the modern Western world to stand outside. It won't be in our favor, and it won't be in our favor for the part of the world that needs our knowledge and our help.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1426	The Progress Party recommends that Norway join the Patent Directive and keep the necessary progress in the case. It's been a long process. A decision should now be taken and, in our view, the directive adopted without further delay. We find it unsustainable if our neighbouring countries and those with whom we work in Europe have to have different rules in this area than Norway has. The time is now ripe to make a choice. We clearly see that there can be fundamental and ethical arguments against the directive, but we have nevertheless fallen into a position of being positive. Of course, the authorities need to keep it under constant review and supervision in order to adequately address key issues. It is essential that the Directive be implemented in a way that respects the fundamental principles of respect for human dignity and integrity. The Progress Party has stressed first and foremost that the Patent Directive will help people and contribute to a development that gives us better opportunities to treat and cure diseases, as well as to produce results that provide better well-being and quality of life. We have also stressed that biotechnology is considered to be one of the industries that will have the highest potential for value creation in the coming years. We feel it would be wrong if Norwegian companies were not guaranteed a level playing field through the legislation in relation to our trading partners. Another point that should be mentioned is: it would be strange if we took the political position that we would take advantage of the products in this country, only they would be produced in other countries, because we don't like the production method. It would, in my opinion, be a significant inconsistency. Biotechnology has long been a focus of Norwegian research. I would like to refer to the ‘Perspective Analysis and Action Plan for Biotechnology 1995–2005’ which the Norwegian Research Council has set out, the main objective of which is to exploit the opportunities offered by modern biotechnology in the context of ethical and safety standards. Substantial amounts are allocated to biotechnological research projects by the authorities in addition to private funded research. When the public contribution to the research effort is significant, it makes sense to believe that there will be something left for this, among other things. in the form of inventions that can be commercialised and thereby increase value creation and jobs. Although Norway is in the backyard compared to our neighbouring countries, there are several examples of bud shooting and good inventions that, on the basis of patents, have also become world leaders in these areas in our country. The Progress Party will provide Norwegian businesses with the opportunity to participate in the development of biotechnology and take advantage of the opportunities available. That's why we have to act then. Our Prime Minister announced in January that Norway will become one of the world's most innovative nations, and I will take the Prime Minister's word. If this is to be achieved, it is absolutely necessary to improve the framework conditions for knowledge-intensive industries. In biotechnology, patenting is alpha and omega. An important signal from Stortinget will be to ensure that Norway has at least as good terms for patenting as EU countries. It is not reasonable and desirable that patenting conditions should be better, for example. in Denmark and Finland. This is important, not least in terms of knowledge and experience. I'll take an example of what this is all about. A company called Myriad Genetics has patents on genes that detect breast cancer. The professionals disagree whether this is an invention or an discovery. There is a lot of work to discover the relationship between gene and disease. The boundaries between discovery and invention are continuously assessed by the patent authorities. Furthermore, it is important to monitor patenting practices so that patents do not become too wide, i.e. that research can be prevented. As the Progress Party sees it, it is important that Norwegian specialist experts can be involved in and discuss these issues in an international context, among others. of the European Patent Organisation. Norway has signed the European Patent Convention but cannot ratify it without allowing for the patenting of plants and animals in accordance with the Patent Directive. Now that Norway joins the Directive, it will allow for the submission of an application to the European Patent Organisation directly by patenting, without having to pass through an authorised resident of a Member State to the European Patent Convention. By requiring Norwegian applicants to go through an additional phase, the quality of the application work may be impaired, as well as substantial additional costs. The Convention makes it possible to apply for patents in several Member States or all of them together. Patenting thus becomes simpler and cheaper. The Progress Party therefore believes that we must now say yes to the Directive, because a no would negatively affect potential Norwegian patent applicants. We have everything to do with having patent legislation in Norway that is coordinated with European law. Research is expensive in itself, and it would be unfortunate to have problems with patenting as well. Norwegian companies seeking to take an EPO patent are charged additional costs of DKK 100 000, which is being dropped by European competitors. It is therefore important to have comprehensive patent legislation in Europe and, in the long term, also on a global basis. The purpose of the Patent Directive is – and has been – to ensure that the patenting conditions in the EU are in line with the conditions in the United States, Japan and some other countries, as well as a desire to bring about modern legislation for the legal protection of biotechnological inventions. The Directive expressly prohibits patents on the human body at all stages of development, including germ cells and embryos. The process of human cloning is also excluded for patenting. It also prohibits the patenting of human embryos for commercial purposes and procedures for the genetic modification of animals suffering from disease unless a significant medical benefit can be achieved for humans or animals. It is also important to stress that patents on inventions which would be contrary to fundamental ethical considerations of commercial exploitation cannot be granted. These are issues that are not just addressed in Norway. Without it, ethical and safety considerations are at least equally concerned with the exploitation of modern biotechnology. Ethics and societal issues will always be at the heart of biotechnology economic development. It is then important to be aware that these activities are regulated by other legislation, both in terms of research, development and exploitation. This Directive therefore does not preclude strict legislation based on ethical, health and environmental considerations. In Norway, this is regulated, inter alia: by the Law on Genetic Technologies and the Law on the Medical Use of Biotechnology. If conditions are facilitated by a reasonable management by the authorities, Norwegian research and business activities could play a role in this important area. A contribution in this way would be to agree to the EU Directive on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1458	The Patent Directive addresses serious fundamental ethical and principleal issues. The rules for the patenting of plants, animals, organisms, cells, tissues and genes shall subsequently be the same as for material objects, such as cheese hooves, vacuum cleaners or computers. The Patent Directive equates living lives and material objects. We have a number of opposites to the content of the directive. Some of them may be a little legal, and we'll get closer to them when we're going to deal with the patent law and the implementation of the directive in Norwegian law. The Directive states that only inventions can be patented and the landfill proposal says, ‘Patents on pure discovery cannot be granted’, but at the same time the Directive states that an element that exists naturally, for example: a gene or a cell from the human body may be an invention. Other biological material isolated from its natural environment should also be patentable, even if found in nature. When the detection and isolation of these genes is granted patent protection, it favours eradicating the distinction between inventions and inventions. In normal language usage, finding a pathogen in the human body and figuring out how it works are perceived as an invention more than an invention. However, according to the Directive, he or she who finds such a gene shall have the right to use it unilaterally, despite the fact that there is either natural in man or other living organisms. First, one says that a patent cannot be granted on discovery. So defines an invention as a legal term to also include something that in everyday speech is perceived as just discovery. The assessment of what will then be an adequate level of invention will be left to the patent offices, to the European Patent Organisation and, ultimately, to the courts. We no longer have control of that after we have implemented the directive. A patent is a right to prevent anyone else from commercial use of what is patented. This becomes especially when the invention is alive. The Directive defines ‘biological material’ as anything containing genetic information that can reproduce itself. When an invention can actually reproduce or produce itself, the question is, who is it that violates the patent when a patented animal or plant reproduces itself? It can't be the plant or the animal. Thus, it must be human beings who happen to end up with such plants and animals, which violate the patent. The example of the genetic technology company Monsanto illustrates this. Monsanto has brought lawsuits against several Canadian farmers, because tests revealed that there were genetic remains of Monsanto's patented and genetically engineered plants in crops from farmers who had not bought seeds from Monsanto. It is close to thinking that the genetic material will end up in the crops of these farmers as a result of genetic contamination, for example. by pollen application. With the patent law in mind, Monsanto has sued several farmers for illegally using Monsanto’s patented genetic material. These are the cases Monsanto has won, and Canadian farmers are fined. This example illustrates the difficulties that arise in treating living organisms, as a plant, in line with dead things. The evidence was transferred to the farmer, who had to prove that he had not bought seed from Monsanto. Nor does the Patent Directive give sufficient consideration to the right of the farmer to use self-produced propagating material for his own needs. A number of times during the hearings were mentioned in the committee. The use of seeds from own crops is common, and the Patent Directive makes this difficult. The Patent Directive also contravenes the principle that plant producers have free access to further development of protected varieties. The Directive may also strengthen progress towards monopolisticism and the uniformisation of food production in the world. Patents on plants enable genetic technology companies to obtain commercial exclusive rights for a large part of the world's seed. The Patent Directive can thus help to strengthen the concentration of power within food production in the world. Many people point to the concern of developing countries in their criticism of the directive. Increased patent protection increases the income of countries that have companies that register many patents. Patent income is therefore not evenly distributed over the world, but concentrated in industrialised countries. Most of the world's biological shortages are found in developing countries. These are resources that the growing genetic technology industry relies on, and the Directive gives this industry free access to genetic resources and the ability to obtain a single right to commercial use of genetic resources. Therefore, the Patent Directive legalises renunciation. Multinational companies or others can freely retrieve genetic material from poor countries in the south and obtain patents on it. The patent confers a single right to commercial exploitation of the genetic material without requiring any of the income to be recovered from the country or local population. The patent seeker does not even need to provide information on each of the genes from which a patent is sought. The Patent Directive is therefore contrary to the Convention on Biological Diversity. The Convention states that the commercial value of the exploitation of the biological deficiency should be shared fairly between the local population, the country and the commercial company concerned. The Convention also states that each country has the right to have its genetic resources at its disposal and that access to genetic resources requires the approval of the country where it exists. This was the background for the Netherlands’ complaint to the European Court of Justice. Norway supports the Netherlands in this matter. However, the European Court of Justice was indisputable and concluded that the Directive was in conformity with the Convention. I think it is alarming that the majority of the committee is very much in favour of the interpretation by the Court of Justice of the Convention on Biological Diversity. In particular, in the light of the fact that Norway actually supports the complaint from the Netherlands, this is alarming. It is not for the European Court of Justice to judge whether or not it complies with the Convention on Biological Diversity. I also found it particularly important that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in reply to questions from the Committee, says that Norway has not intended to take any initiative to ask the Secretariat of the Convention on Biodiversity to consider the issue, because it is up to each country to ensure that it complies with the Convention. The assistance organisations have a clear line to the directive. Norwegian People's Aid writes in its call phrase: «The raw material for genetic engineers is genes, and interesting genes are often found in crops, crops and livestock used and processed by the local population for generations. The problem with issuing patents to researchers who have stolen genes and transferred them into new organisms is that these patents only reward those who have done a small part of a great job.’ This, I think, is a question that the majority of people should have problemated a little more than they do. Nor does the majority take over Norway’s proud role as a bridge builder between OECD countries and developing countries in international negotiations. This role becomes problematic when we join the directive. NORAD writes in its hearing statement: ‘The position of Norway on TRIPS and the ongoing WTO negotiations to amend the TRIPS Agreement shall be that there shall be access to the prohibition of patents on plants and animals.’;» And on the other hand, ‘Conclusion of the Patent Directive providing patent protection for plants and animals will make it difficult to defend the maintenance of Norwegian positions in WTO negotiations.’ And we know that exactly that kind of negotiation is going on right now. We have proposals to lay down the patent directive for an advisory public hearing. It's a radical grip. First of all, we believe that referendums should be used more often than they are today, and we therefore agreed on a proposal that was not agreed in the Stortingen yesterday, to allocate more use of local advisory public opinion. People's vote is a good addition and corrective to representative democracy. In this matter, we believe that this is important because the Patent Directive is concerned with a central ethical issue which, in our opinion, has major and inconclusive consequences for the future. It is about the consequences of an international agreement that has been concluded in the past. But we did not know that this was going to be the consequence of the agreement we entered into. The directive is well-suited to be put to advisory public hearings because it has two clear and conflicting positions. When the proposal to impose the Patent Directive on advisory public procurement does not have a majority, our secondary proposal is that we ask the Government to use the right of reservation to which the EEA Agreement gives us access and veto the directive. I found it sad that we have spent so little time dealing with this matter. And I think it is sad that one has had a long process in the EU, while the quick eye is going through the Storting when one is going to deal with these kinds of issues. It has taken a long time to reach agreement in the EU. We're spending a very short time in Stortinget. Finally, I would like to take up the suggestions that SV has made on its own or together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1514	The representative of Åsa Elvik has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1517	With regard to this case of the Patent Directive, the Christian People's Party has had fundamental ethical and principleal objections throughout the years. In particular, it is ethically opposed to the extensive patentability of living material that follows from the Directive, among others. the patenting of animals, plants, the concern for biological deficiency and the concern for developing countries and their exploitation of their own genetic resources, which have made us aware. This is why the Councils of State of the Christian People's Party and the Left chose to accept it on the issue of the acceptance of the EU Patent Directive on copyright. There are three aspects in particular that the Christian People's Party emphasises in relation to a holistic assessment of the Patent Directive and that constitute the foundation of the Christian People's Party to say no to the Directive. The first is ethical consideration, including respect for the creation and human dignity. The second point is that we are very concerned about the environment, with particular emphasis on the precautionary principle. The last serious concern of the Christian People's Party is the concern of the developing world's interests. We are also concerned that the patent can be used to provide a time-limited one-off right to commercial exploitation of inventions. Disclosure of inventions at the same time as patent holders have been sure to benefit from the commercial potential of their invention is an example of practices that have evolved over time in the field of patents in the field of genetic and biotechnology. It is important to emphasise that the use of patents, and the corresponding rules on the protection of copyright in general, act as an important instrument to stimulate research and development. At the same time, we would stress the importance of stimulating the exploitation of the potential of biotechnology. However, what we find most necessary in this context is that society draws up the boundaries to avoid undesirable development. When it comes to patent law in Norway, it has been relatively similar to that in other European countries. What is worth noting is that Norwegian patent legislation has traditionally been more restrictive than in international contexts. All in the 1990s, the Stortinget and several governments stated that it should not be opened for the patenting of plants and animals or for the production of plants and animals, and that there should therefore be no possibility of patenting naturally occurring material. In these courts, there has been particular criticism of the patenting of naturally occurring material. In order to ensure that patent practices are as restrictive as possible in this field, the size of the case has even demanded the application of the patent law, thereby ensuring that the patent practices currently in force are maintained. legislation on industrial legal protection, etc., the so-called TRIPS Agreement. We note that this has not been followed up, pending the treatment of the EU Patent Directive. At the same time, we would point out that the EU Patent Directive introduces a completely different patent legislation and practice than has been the case in Norway until now. We also note that this means a fraction of the holds that a multiple of the Storting has previously expressed. In relation to patenting of parts of the human body and sequences of human genes when isolated, we would stress that these are highly controversial internationally, including intra-EU. It is a crutch of thought that a medical environment fears that this can contribute to weak medical research and development. In this context, it should be interesting to follow up on what is happening in relation to the Council of Europe's decision. The Christian People's Party believes that the patent directive, as it is designed, does not conform to the Christian view of human beings and thus undermines the fundamental holds, that a human being must have dignity and integrity on which to build our society. The Christian People's Party has respect and humility for all living material. Plants, animals and naturally occurring material must be seen as part of the creation that we are set to administer. In this manager's mind, nature has a self-esteem that we have to protect. In this respect, it is therefore particularly problematic that the Directive makes a small distinction between living material as a fin in nature and that which has been affected. Being able to obtain patents on inventions rather than inventions does not specifically harmonize with such an ethical thinking. This form of a single right to exploit the creation to which the Directive opens extends far beyond what may be said to be reasonable and justifiable. There has been a monthly international discussion on the relationship between the EU patent law and the Biodiversity Convention. It is important to highlight the link between the Patent Directive and the concern for biological deficiency. The Christian People's Party is of the opinion that the Patent Directive will be able to create difficulties in the follow-up to the Convention on Biological Diversity. This will also have an effect on the Catagena Protocol on Plant Genetic Resources. The ability to take patents on living material as a fin in nature could lead to an intensification of the loss of biological material and a uniformation of the biological deficiency, plant and animal life. This is something we in the Christian People's Party are concerned about and really concerned about. In relation to developing countries, the Christian People's Party is particularly concerned with two aspects: firstly, the right to the exploitation of own genetic resources in these countries and secondly, the distribution effects of the implementation of a patent law, such as the EU Directive globally. This may be based on several factors, but it is likely that about 90 pst. The world's genetic resources exist in tropical areas, i.e. that it is mainly developing countries. What we fear in the Christian People's Party in this context is that the Patent Directive will lead to a massive and uncontrolled exploitation of genetic resources in these countries without the country being guaranteed remuneration for this. The Christian People's Party is therefore fundamentally concerned that the Patent Directive can in this way lead to an even more unequal distribution of resources in the world. We have therefore come to the conclusion that my patent directive is unsolvable against the world's poorest, and this is deeply anchored in the Christian People's Party's restraints. The consequence of this is that developing countries will also be able to experience the cost of paying expensively for products created by their original genetic resources. What lies in this is that we can come into a situation where developing countries will experience obstacles to the export of their own products because these are of material patented on the markets of the industrialized countries. This is unsustainable and only contributes to the misalignment of the world in the wrong direction. It was said earlier in the debate that Norway is only 4.5 million people, and that one should not put too much emphasis on what we do. I actually think I have to supplement Ivar Kristiansen and say that many eyes around the world dove in Norway and look at us with great respect for the story we have in order to have a fight for the interests of the developing world. With regard to Norway's driving role and its international concern, we believe that Norwegian support for the EU Patent Directive could weaken our position and therefore be unfortunate. Having said that, I would nevertheless say that we recognise that there is a number of people both in the Government and in the Storting that will accept the Patent Directive for Norway. What is important to us in this context is the introduction of restrictions that result in a restrictive line in accordance with previous practice. So we feel that some of the negative consequences are weakened. This is particularly true of the way in which the Government proposes that Norway should make use of the space for action permitted by the Patent Directive, so that the Directive can be applied restrictively. The government will also introduce information obligations for patent applications in Norway – this to ensure information about each material being patented is actually obtained from. It is also proposed that a specific ethical term, the agricultural derogation, be taken into account. Internationally, we are pleased with the Government's proposal that Norway should be able to take up a restrictive line in international forums when it comes to the development of patent rules. At the same time, it is of great importance that Norway wishes to participate in the EU Councils and Groups providing ethical advice in relation to the Patent Directive. Therefore, the government is increasing the possible tightening of the patent directive towards what the European Parliament has proposed. With regard to developing countries, we will work together with the Government to ensure that their interests in international negotiations are taken care of. All in all, we are relatively positive to the signals that are coming. The Christian People's Party will otherwise join the proposal No. 1 and 2, which is progenitor of the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1563	It has been said by several of the supporters of the directive that this is a long-term issue and that, therefore, it is high time that it was decided. I would like to remind you that, in fact, only six EU countries have implemented the Patent Directive in their legislation. In fact, there has not been a longer period of time than the fact that there is also a significant disagreement within the EU on how to deal with this directive. France has gone a long way in challenging the intention of the directive in its legislation. On the basis of the Commission on Biological Diversity, the Netherlands has appealed the Directive to the Court of Justice of the European Union — and was initially supported by Norway. During the treatment in the Government here with us, we see that nine of the members of the Government have taken this and recommended the Stortinget to use the right of reservation. Unfortunately, the government of the Christian People's Party did not use this time nor the opportunity to put down its feet and thus ensure that there was a majority in the Government for their views. That should have been the Christian People's Party! With the seriousness that I have perceived that the Christian People's Party, and also the Left, has put in this matter, the Right should have had to surrender for once. However, the fact that the Government has recommended this by a mere majority, and that there is strong internal disagreement within the EU, does not rock the EU's loyal ones in this house. Everything that comes from Brussels is per year. definition thoughtful and reasonable. Minimum time for debate shall be used. It has to be clubbed through as quickly as possible, and it is believed that when it is discussed in the EU, it has been discussed. Then we don't need to spend time on this. Then I hear some people say in the debate that we must not give Norwegian research and Norwegian business worse competitive conditions than the others have. We're actually doing something about it every day! We did it last week in connection with the treatment of the Animal Protection Act. We have done so in relation to what kind of framework conditions we have given the farming industry. We do it in relation to the Working Environment Act. We do it in relation to environmental legislation in other areas. It's part of our daily policy that we want to base some standards other than what many other countries do, in the way we handle things here at home. But in this area, we're not going to do it. It is that from time to time we also have an obligation to evaluate business relationships against ethical relationships. This matter is a matter in which it should have been done quite clearly. It is not obvious that, in absolutely all areas, we must put competitive conditions ahead of all other considerations. The possibility of exclusive exploitation of an invention related to biological material will undoubtedly increase the effort and pressure in this area. There are major economic interests involved for those who will succeed. No one has to be in doubt that for 20 years to come, the possibility of obtaining exclusive rights — patenting — will put enormous pressure on the development of a sector where, in fact, those who are the supporters of the Directive have also expressed scepticism for parts of what is there. The question of the patenting of living organisms is such an important issue that the Centre Party, together with the SV – as has been said earlier – believes that this Directive should have been put to an advisory referendum. In this way, we could actually have the opportunity to have a popular debate on the content of the directive, and get an engagement on whether the Norwegian people believe that this is a direction in which we should go, or whether we should do the opposite – what we have done in a number of other areas of good luck – work internationally to prevent a development that in fact has also expressed a critical attitude to the followers. We did it, for example. on a question of banning the use of anti-personnel mines, and it would have been quite obvious that we could have used it outside the EU too, to fight against a development that we do not want, and which I believe a majority of the Norwegian people are actually behind. Unfortunately, that proposal does not get the majority, and our subsidiary proposals obviously mean that no consent should be given to the approval of the patent directive. Unfortunately, the majority here in the house seems to be in a hurry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1586	Patents in life are not just about technology or economics, but about fundamental ethical questions about how to treat nature and man. The EU Directive on the patenting of biotechnological inventions concerns the right of ownership of biological defects. Biological diversity, whether it's the wild axis of the West or bananas and Brazil nuts from the rainforest, is a very special resource. Biological diversity is essential – it is the food we live from, and food production is the most important example of the use of biodiversity. Maybe as much as 90 pst. of the world's bio-diversity is found in the tropics. There is a resource that the rich countries need, and want, at the expense of developing countries. As a result, the issue of the Patent Directive is highly a matter of developing countries’ ability to secure their resources, and so it is so important to regulate the ownership of biological deprivation. The EU Patent Directive will also make it possible to patent plants and animals. In previous bottling of the patent issue, there has been a cross-political agreement that plants and animals should be excluded from patenting. Here borders are drawn. There has been a trade-off between industry's desire for patents and society's need to show that nature is something other than just patentable biological material. Thus, it is now possible to patent plants and animals in Norway because the bulk of the population by all means will avoid vetoing a single EEA Directive. Left seems very sad. The main issue of the Patent Directive is the integrated knowledge view that the Directive has – that it prefers a particular type of knowledge, namely western technical laboratory knowledge. The basis for the directive is the fact that those who work in a laboratory and can sequence genes and create genetically modified organisms must be rewarded with patent rights because they do such an important job. Informal but intelligent research and processing work where the biological deficiency is greatest, e.g. in a strain that lives far inside the rainforest, or a family that serves coffee in Ethiopia, is valued at zero. As this Patent Directive is designed, among organisations dealing with environmental and solidarity issues, it is perceived as legitimate theft. Our researchers and companies can travel and take home exciting biological shortages, and then secure a single right to use it for the next 20 years. Some call it genetics, other bioprospection – but the Left thinks it's fair, no one can say it is. There will be a majority for the EU Patent Directive on Stortingen today. The left would stress the importance of Norway continuing to support developing countries in international negotiations on intellectual property rights. The government assures Norway that it will promote a restrictive line in international forums. During the so-called TRIPS negotiations, Trade Related Intellectual Property Rights, the Left believes that Norway must support the African countries' positions. It is also important that Norway ensure that EFTA does not impose intellectual property rights when EFTA negotiates bilateral trade agreements with other countries. In the setting, it is indicated that the Left State Councils – together with the Christian People's Party – have taken part in the Government on this matter. The seriousness of the matter is also underlined by the common comments of the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The left says it's mixed up in these. In general, we also share the separate comments that the Christian People's Party has in the setting. Ethical concern, the concern for the environment and for the interests of developing countries, all speak to vote against the pluralist position today. The left considers this matter to be so important and so fundamental that we will support the proposal for an advisory referendum. We believe such a reconciliation and such a debate will be positive, and see the dilemmas and choices of technological development facing us as a society, no matter where the plurality goes. Finally, the Left will vote in favour of the proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, and against the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1609	We are dealing with a controversial issue today – we are dealing with the Patent Directive. It's very controversial. I think we've spent a little time getting involved in what this is. I have to ask if the voters who have elected us are aware of what the majority in this Chamber is doing. To be honest, I don't think so. I do not think it is the majority of the Norwegian people who want us to adopt the patent directive today. So stupid, I don't think the voters are. But I'm given up on the fact that we're going to decide that I can own the president!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1617	Doubtful!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1620	Yes, but we're going to adopt it today! And the president can own me. I've been abandoned for a while. That the Right Party and the Advance Party are in favour of this matter, I agree, because they want to sell everything. Everything that smells of natural resources, they'll sell, and it'll go over to the business people, so they can make money on it. But what about the grass, what about the seed, what about the potato, which we're all so happy about, the fish, the corals, the seagrass, the tangent and the tare? All this can be patented – by businessmen. Not us, no far from it. And what about all the organisms that exist in the sea? We know that there are people out in boats at sea taking samples of the corals, and of course they can be influenced by the fact that they can be patented. And what about genetically modified soya — genetically modified products that we import into Norway? But we're not allowed to use it. Within the EEA Committee, from which documents should be submitted to the Committee, there is a one-year waiting period for all dossiers. One year, the Committee and we big-time representatives must wait for what is being discussed in the EEA Committee. No, I have no problem joining the SV and the Central Party's minority proposals in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1632	What carries the majority of the government, and which carries the majority of the population, are the opportunities seen in biotechnology. I noticed with pleasure that the minority in the setting also underlines the same thing: ‘These members will also highlight the importance of stimulating the exploitation of the potential of biotechnology.’ This brings us together. But, at my discretion, it is that accepting the directive now is what will put our business in the same position as the rest of Europe, thus giving us the opportunity to do what both the majority and the minority agree on in practice. This is by no means a new matter. This matter has been debated in Stortinget for years, and has also been in the EEA Committee for years. That's why the government parties at Sem, before the formation of the government, agreed that this was the area where the parties would separate layers. I am therefore more than surprised when someone in Stortinget says that this is a matter on which we have had little time – considering that the issue has been well known to Stortinget for years. The proposition underlying the treatment today has also been in Stortingen throughout the spring session. That it has therefore been good time to decide on the matter, I am not a moment in doubt about it. It has also been the case that many other parliaments in Europe have already done so. I agree with those who say that there are difficult issues that are being discussed here, and I think it is important that they be discussed with demands for accuracy and also demands for respect for other perceptions. I am therefore not quite sure how successful I think it is when the minority balances the scope of application with cheese choppers and vacuum cleaners – that is at best a failed polemic point. However, it nevertheless gives me reason to stress a few important things, namely that patents on clean discoveries are not granted, that a patent in Norway does not provide the basis for refusing the use of biological material as it occurs in nature, that it is about who should have the exclusive right to commercial exploitation of a biotechnology invention, and that a patent does not confer the right to the development or use of inventions prohibited by other legislation. So it's not a question of what to develop, but of who to develop it commercially. I would also like to remind you that, in relation to applications for patents, there is a transparency that in itself will be important, not least in the interests of research. The alternative is actually secrecy, and it's a question of reaching your goals more easily. But it is true that there are a good number of problems associated with this, and those are the problems the Government is aiming to resolve through the measures that the rapporteur has listed. I would therefore like to remind you that in Stortinget there is also a proposition, Ot.prp. No 86 for 2002-2003, which is just about implementing legislation in this area. Here you take up some of the objections that have arisen. For example, I have noticed that it is said that the patent seeker does not even have to specify where the genes that are wanted for patent are extracted from. No, that's not right. It's just looking up in Ot.prp. No 86, then you can see that there is an obligation here to disclose this in the patent application. I am also very surprised at what is said about the relationship with the Convention on Biodiversity. All the parties agreed to try this case out in court, but so it's the case that the minority disagrees at the moment they get the result of this test. There is no doubt that we want to implement this, so that there is coherence and consistency. I don't think there's any reason to further problematize that question. That's one of the things that should be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1649	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1652	The Patent Directive is about fundamental ethical issues, and it is also about the perception of what a person is and the view of what nature is. The Minister of Foreign Affairs thinks we should discuss this with the level of precision. I agree with him. Let us then take two examples of patents granted under the blessing of the EU directive. It is a patent on a human gene that is active only in the human body when women are pregnant and is referred to as relaxation. It's patented. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think it's a human invention? Another patented object is the mouse that has been manipulated in such a way that cancer develops automatically. Does the Foreign Minister think that this mouse is an invention made by people? Or is it that it's not for us people to invent lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1661	What I meant by my remark was that important ethical issues are raised and resolved in different contexts than exactly when it comes to the question of patenting – so here's the question of how this can be commercially exploited. These include: reason for noting that a patent does not confer the right to develop and use inventions prohibited by other legislation. It's clear that there's one of the big, difficult areas, so there's a lot to find out about this. I do not say that this directive also involves some difficult ethical considerations. For this reason, the Government has introduced the remedial measures outlined. It also gives me the opportunity to mention an important point, namely that the proposal that SV has now highlighted has already received an answer in the proposition, precisely because I agree that there is a very important challenge here. So if the Storting chooses to adopt this proposal, they already already know what the answer is, because it's taken into the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1668	The Christian People's Party is opposed to accepting this directive, as the Foreign Minister correctly said. But we are somewhat relieved and somewhat positive about the practice that appears to be under way by the Government in the practice of the directive. My question then goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: can he confirm that the Government in the practice of the directive will have a restrictive attitude? I am thinking in particular of the reading in the European Parliament and the interpretation they are asking for. Would the Government also contribute to the changes that are taking place in part of the Member States of the European Union in order to ensure that we have a restrictive practice and a restrictive interpretation of the Directive in this area? And finally the last question, which concerns the developing countries. Some say that with the Patent Directive, we open up to steal the value and wealth of our countries. Will the Minister of Foreign Affairs help to ensure that this is not the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1677	I would like to say to the last question that there is an entirely unfounded concern, which Gedrem does not have to do. It is therefore not possible to grant patents on clean discoveries. It has to be clear. There is no basis for refusing the use of biological material as it occurs in nature. The occurrences to which he refers are, of course, where they are. So for the other questions, both this proposition and Ot.prp. No 86 how the Government will enforce this and practice it. And I quite agree with that, it's going to be restrictive. It is also clear from the proposition that the position taken by the European Parliament and also reflected in the Elvik proposal, the Government has already said that it agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1684	I would like to challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs a little further on precisely what is going on in restrictive practice, because the Minister for Foreign Affairs also said in his speech that the Government will put Norwegian business in the same position as the rest of Europe. In the light of the answer now given to Mr Gedrem, which will be based on the guidelines of the Council of Europe, I wonder: is the directive to be practised more stringently than what is being done by the EU? Do you want to practice it as strictly as possible? Or, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, will you put Norwegian business in the same position as the rest of the European economy and follow those who are the most liberal? I would like to get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1689	We believe that we are putting Norwegian business in the same situation as the rest of Europe, precisely by now accepting this directive. When it comes to the actual practice, the government has explained in detail how it wants to do it, and the Storting will get Ot.prp. No 86 to treatment later, where it is possible to reduce this issue further. I don't think there's any doubt that here you're trying to build bridges between different opinions related to this question. I think to some extent you have just succeeded in building these bridges. I think you should admit from all sides that this is a difficult substance, it challenges ethical questions, but it doesn't mean that you have to exaggerate the descriptions, as I think the minority has done in one of the ways that, at my discretion, the polemic formulations may have taken some power over some of the reasoning.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1698	I record that the Foreign Minister will not answer if this cancer is an invention, made by a human being. He won't answer if relaxin, this human gene, is an invention made by humans. Let's take a new gene, brazzein, that was found in West Africa, which is a sweetener, and which is patented – for use as a sweetener. Is it an invention made by people, or is it an discovery? On the other hand, the Minister of Foreign Affairs reiterates that discoveries are not patentable. But can you prove what that discovery can be used for, is it patentable under the Patent Directive? It is ethically problematic in itself to adopt a law that is up to people to invent life – or does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think it is entirely right?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1704	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is now at hand. The president would suggest that today's meeting be extended until the day's map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1709	I cannot or will not go into completely specific cases and assess them. But I understand that Heidi Sørensen and I agree on one thing, and it is clear that patents on clean discoveries should not be granted. We do not disagree on that. What we're discussing is the question of the requirement of the height of invention. Heidi Sørensen points out that of course it will be subject to difficult assessments and some judgement. While there may be disagreement on the concrete management decisions on this issue, it does not affect the points made in this Directive and which are also my point, namely that patents on clean discoveries cannot be granted. There is now a very specific question of border crossings, but that is not in itself an argument against a directive. Such a problem will be faced by a legislator and an administrator at all times in all difficult areas of society. So the argument itself is not sustainable in relation to the matter we are now dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1716	Since we have had a debate on the current WTO negotiations earlier today, I believe that the Foreign Minister is also busy with what is happening in relation to the negotiations on the TRIPS agreement. A group of African countries have just presented their position, where one should prevent the possibility of taking patents on all kinds of lives. One of the reasons is that this is contrary to both moral and cultural standards in many societies in Africa, but it is also about food security and the fight against poverty. The representative from the Left, May Britt Vihovde, said in her speech that she is urging the Government to follow the positions of the poor countries in the TRIPS negotiations. Will the Foreign Minister follow the Vihovde's call to support the African countries asking that all forms of patents on life be excluded from patenting?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1727	What to do today is to approve this directive – and it governs Norwegian policy in this area. We believe that it is fully satisfactory, and it is about patenting in the Norwegian area. I do not know much about the proposal that has been promoted in the context of the trade agreement negotiations, but I assume that it is much more elaborate than Elvik has now stated. She referred to this in the form of slogans, and as such it is not suitable to decide on that background.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1734	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1739	The Minister of Foreign Affairs expressed his opinion in such a way as to suggest that he has not registered the debate on the Patent Directive that has been going on internationally in the last ten years. When you have patented brazzin, when you have patented cancer, and when you have patented relaxin, this is an example of animal and naturally occurring biological material that is patented. The requirement for these ‘discoveries’ to be patented under the Directive is that they can be used industrially – that they can be found, that they describe what they can be used for, and then they can be patented. It's the discussion of the height of invention. Let me then carry out the reasoning in the case of dead things. Let me say I find a vacuum cleaner, and I find an industrial application for this vacuum cleaner. Ergo: I patent it. I repeat: I find a vacuum cleaner, I discover what I can use the vacuum cleaner for, industrial application, and I try to patent it. That logic is what you kneel about living biological material. You'll find the gene relaxin. Oi! – an industrial use of gene relaxin is detected. Oi! – you patent it. That is the logic you accept if you accept the patent directive. When you stand as a patent holder of a mouse or a gene, those who have accepted that law must also accept that man is able to invent life. It is at least contrary to my basic nature and human vision. The Biodiversity Convention – the Convention on the Use and Conservation of Biological Diversity – states that the local population has the right to a fair return on that diversity. The Patent Directive – regardless of Norway’s follow-up – states that in order to obtain a patent, it is not even necessary to write down the source of the gene. The first multinational company to try it, if we make different rules, will win in EU law with it – unfortunately. This is grossly unsolvable, and it's sad that it is. Finally, let me underline: it is not necessarily the case that all trailers of genetic engineering are glitteringly satisfied with the Patent Directive. When this discussion was in Stortinget last — three years ago — then Foreign Minister Jagland raised the issue of vitamin-rich rice as an example of something good in genetic engineering. The inventor of this rice broke 20 international gene patents to do this, and is even critical that it should be possible to take patents on this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1754	I fully understand that the Foreign Minister cannot have an overview of what is happening in all WTO negotiations at any given time. But I would encourage the Minister of Foreign Affairs to get that overview, and follow the invitation of the representative May Britt Vihovde to support the poor countries that want to get rid of the possibility of taking patents alive. Because I thought that was a very good call. I think maybe the call would be easier to follow if we hadn't joined the patent directive here today, but it gets so much. We can still do that job within the WTO. Otherwise, I fully agree with the representative Heidi Sørensen that when it comes to the foreign minister's clarifications in relation to what is discovery and invention, it was not particularly elucidating, and that is precisely the problem with the whole patent directive. I shall not prolong the debate. Actually, I would just take the floor to say that we accept the call and make proposal No. 3, which is distributed in the hall, into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1763	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3337]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1771	Then we should be ready to go to voting. Before we start voting, the President will make it clear that it will be called immediately after we have finished here, so we know what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1780	During the debate, Mr Valle has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Council asks the Government to investigate how the monitoring and registration resulting from Europol and Schengen cooperation can be subject to national and parliamentary control.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1831	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on WTO issues be annexed to the minutes of the Storting meeting on 13 June 2003. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1840	During the debate, Mr Bjørlo Lysbakken put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to withdraw Norway’s requests and requirements for developing countries to liberalise trade in services.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1931	During the debate, Åsa Elvik has put forward three proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. Proposals Nos. 1 and 2 are included in the adjustment, while proposal No. 3 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. Proposal No. 3, by the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal, and the text will be amended accordingly. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government have an active position in the discussions and processes that are taking place internally in the EU in relation to changes to the Patent Directive, such as the question of the possibility of taking patents on human genes and cells, and to come back to the Storting with a clarification of what concrete amendments to the Directive it wishes and will work for.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It is considered biphasic. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Decision of the EEA Joint Committee No 20/2003 of 31 January 2003 amending Annex XVII to the EEA Agreement, on copyright, is hereby added to the referendum.» [[Patents Directive]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1955	The Committee's position and proposal No will then be replaced by a vote. 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, which reads: ‘The size does not consent to the approval of Decision of the EEA Joint Committee No. 20/2003 of 31 January 2003 amending Annex XVII to the EEA Agreement, on copyright [[Patents Directive]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1975	President! I thought it was clear that the Christian People's Party would vote in favour of the proposal of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e1980	It's been informed several times during the debate, so the president didn't think any of the Christian People's Party's representatives were in doubt about that. Let's do the voting again. It is clear, then, that the Christian People's Party – and as far as the President has understood, also the Left – will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-17.ana.ud1698e2001	There is no record.
