ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e45	The President will propose the election of a president of the Odelstingen meetings this week and Monday 15 December – and will consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e50	I suggest Heidi Grande Røys.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e55	Heidi Grande Røys has been proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Heidi Grande Røys is considered unanimously elected president of Odelstingen’s meetings this week and Monday 15 December.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e69	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 197]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e85	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e94	The situation on the labour market is still very worrying. It has just been a drop in the number of completely unemployed in the last month. It's a pleasure. But there are still a lot of people standing completely out of work. The main objective of the Labour Party’s economic policy is to ensure work for all. We want to pursue a policy to ensure that people have work, but also that those who lose work have something to live on when they become unemployed. The Labour Party is opposed to proposals that result in the loss of competitiveness and competence of industry. The government's proposals in this proposition suggest that the situation is getting worse for those who have lost their jobs, for those who are at risk of losing their jobs, and for the employers. We rarely have seen any suggestion that until those degrees have given rise to war on all fronts. In its proposal, the government proposes to amend the permit law, so that employers who want to permite one are required to pay the corresponding salary for 30 days before the person on leave is insured. Today this period is three days. From all over the country, we have been signaled by worried employers and employees that this will give more cancellations and loss of competence, and that it leads to weak conditions of competition. It seemed strange that the government, at a time when labour market challenges are so great, chose to take such a step. There is little sense in overturning large costs to business at a time when many businesses are struggling with adversity. The regulatory framework for leavencies has been amended many times as a result of variations in the labour market. I have registered that the Labour Party has been criticised for us entering in 2001 to change the legislation. In 2001, unemployment was low, and it was then right to reduce the period of leave to 26 weeks. No one could at the time see that there would be 60 to 70 new unemployed each working day under a new government. At the same time, we said that one had to see continuously the situation in the labour market. The situation now is fundamentally different. That's why the Labour Party and the majority at Stortinget in ours thought it was right to give access to a more flexible regulatory framework. We are of the opinion that during a period of high unemployment, it is more likely that the persons on leave will be unemployed than that they will have other work when the period of leave is over. In such a situation, a longer period of leave should be allowed, and one must ensure that persons with valuable competence still have a connection with the enterprise. The Labour Party is pleased that, through the budgetary agreement with the Government, we have reduced the employer’s period to ten days and that there are still 42 weeks of leave. We don't think this is good enough, but that was the best we could do at this rate. What has been one of the most thoughtful things in the house is undoubtedly the question of temporary additions. The government has taken a lot of time to criticise the proposal. She never ceases to amaze me, the former government has to put itself in conflict with everything and everyone in the labour market policy. The main argument from the Government is that several temporary additions should give more people work. However, the legislative proposal does not refer to material or studies that should support this. There is therefore no reason to believe that more temporary additions will lead to lower unemployment. Several temporary additions will create greater uncertainty in a large number of employees and their family members. That's not what the Working Party wants. The Labour Law Selection is about to finish its work. So now it is against the proposal being sent back to the Government, to be dealt with by the Labour Law Committee. That's the only thing that makes sense. For the Labour Party, it was a requirement – that we should all sit down to the negotiating table – that the proposal should be sent back. The government proposed a major cut in the 2003 state budget agenda, and got several figures for this together with the Progress Party. As a result, the performances were tightened strongly. In addition, much less is required for daily allowance. For us in the Labour Party, it is important that unemployment does not create unnecessary economic problems for those who are affected. So in our alternative state budget, we went in to reverse all the unsocial cuts. The amendment of the legislation that we are discussing here today is an additional tightening of the agenda that is unacceptable. The working party therefore opposes the proposed change. At the end of the day, I will only correct the setting at the recommendation of the Committee, B.II.3(a), where it says ‘10 working days at full leave’. [[1]] It shall be «10 working days in the case of a full permit and at least 40 pst. reduction of working time»;
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e130	The correction made by the applicant's rapporteur is recorded and will be taken into account in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e133	Changes tend to create noise. When the Government of this proposition proposes to extend access to temporary employment while proposing to extend the pay obligations of enterprises during leave from three days to 30 days, a high level of noise is no surprise. The opposite would be remarkable. But now the storm is still. This year's budgetary settlement with the Workers' Party has had implications for this proposition. The obligation to pay is now extended from three to ten days and there will also be an extension of the temporary extension of the leave of 42 weeks until 1 July 2004. The proposal for temporary employment remains with the Employment Act Committee. We will have to wait for the vote from there before we take the very big debate. When the proposition is promoted by the Government, it is with a very clear purpose, to reduce unemployment, to speed up employment growth and to make the labour market more flexible and adaptable to the needs of enterprises. The measures proposed in the proposal would contribute to meeting these objectives. Back to the noise level that always occurs when issues that change the usual rules or rights are submitted. It would have been so simple if there was only one reason to take — the consideration of the employee or the consideration of the individual enterprise in isolation. However, political considerations need to be balanced, weighed and measured before conclusions are reached. In this case, proposals are made to save public finances and help to preserve and develop the country's business life, which in turn will preserve the welfare state, reduce unemployment and create future new jobs. It becomes too simple, as the Labour Party and the Socialist Left often do, to stand on the side of one party – I might as well say LO’s side. Budgetary negotiations have led to an increase in the employer’s period from three to ten working days. The increase will help to counteract an undesirable level of leave, while at the same time achieving a desired reduction in social security payments. Today's three-day employer scheme overthrew the company's compensation of employees to the public. In addition, there is a lot of evidence to suggest that permitations are being used too much. It is worth noting, however, that the employer’s period will fall completely if the leave is due to fire, accidents or certain natural circumstances. These are new elements in the proposition. The proposal for temporary employment has been promoted in the proposal to increase the flexibility of enterprises in terms of taking off stoppages, to be able to say yes to assignments during periods when companies have a lot to do and to be able to increase the workforce for a certain period of time. This will make it easier for workers who are unemployed and have no job experience to enter the labour market. In particular, it will provide young people and immigrants with a good opportunity to enter the labour market. Experience both from Norway and from other countries shows that temporary employment facilitates the entry into the labour market of new entrants and groups with weak links to the labour market. A study carried out by Fafo in 2002 shows that about 2/3 of temporary employees were employed after two years. It is worth noting that the legislation will be more similar to the legislation that has been in the country for a long time. Measures to combat unemployment have been called for from many quarters. The proposal for temporary employment is precisely an answer to this. In a start-up phase of the economy, on which we are fortunately seeing clear signs, flexible access to temporary employment is particularly important because there will be some uncertainty about the changed economic cycle. But this was the content of the proposition. Temporary employment has been sent back to the Labour Law Committee, and the big debate is likely to come back when the committee has presented its position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e156	I assume that the representative Holmberg will bring up a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e159	That is what the representative does – proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e164	Then the representative Kari Lise Holmberg took up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e167	I must say that I very much agree with the considerations expressed by the representative Holmberg in his statement. I still feel that it becomes a little strange that the representative Holmberg now actually stands and criticizes his settlement partner. The representative of Holmberg should have rather boasted the Workers' Party up and down, because they have now agreed to weaken the business opportunities in the future by increasing the pay obligation. I record that the representative Holmberg does not, but that is what is the actual relationship. I feel like saying that this is a rematch from the Government. I'm not going to criticize either the state council or the government because a wanted rematch, because we all do that once in a while, but this is a matter that comes back again and again. I would also like to remind you that when the debate took place – and the high level of noise expressed by the representative Holmberg – the Council of State was rapidly on the track and concluded that increased pay obligations for business were to be compensated, among other things. temporary employment. Now it is the case that this government has negotiated away from compensation for business, hence temporary employment, but continues to increase the pay obligation for business. It harmonizes badly with what was said by the Government and the Council of State at an earlier time. As far as temporary employment is concerned, the Progress Party has stated that it is fully in line with the wishes we have for a flexible labour market. But we accept, of course, that the agreement has resulted in the case being sent back to the sample, and it will be interesting to see how the conciliators behave when the sample concludes. I have a little stomach feeling that the sample will hopefully conclude that temporary employment might make sense. Then it's going to be interesting to see if we get this for treatment in the next round. It is clear that temporary employment is a really good step in the Norwegian labour market, especially when we see what will happen next year, after 1 May, in relation to the enlargement of the EU. I believe that this will be pushed through by workers from other countries, and then Norwegian workers must also have the opportunity to use it. I also find it strange, as the representative Holmberg pointed out, that we should have a distinction in the labour market with regard to the public and private sectors, and with regard to the possibility of having flexibility in the labour market. Finally, I would like to make it clear that we will vote against the first paragraph of Section 3 of the adjustment. [[1]] I want to show you what we did when we treated Ot.prp. No 5 for 2003-2004. Otherwise, I have nothing more to say in the debate, other than that I am promoting the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e178	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e181	First, I want to include the SV's suggestions in the setting. The purpose of the proposals, says the Government, is to improve the situation on the labour market of enterprises and of employees. SV assesses the proposals in such a way that they work the opposite way for both parties. SV chooses to stand on the side of companies in this matter, and we believe that the changes in the law of leave proposed by the Government were far too strong, and came up with – if possible – the worst time they could have come up with. SV has been involved in tightening these rules in situations where the wheels have fluctuated much faster and there has been much better in the Norwegian economy. In the summer and in the autumn it tightened. We lost a lot of jobs, and a lot of companies needed to permit over shorter or longer periods. It was therefore an extremely unfortunate time when the Government chose to promote this proposal. SV is therefore pleased that it has become a better proposal than it initially was, but we still believe that the majority proposal places too much burden on companies in a situation where they need to permit. It is very important that some of the small businesses that Norway has and that are very vulnerable in a competitive situation have the opportunity to permit in periods when order access fluctuates, and that they thus retain local competence on the spot where it is, so that it is not disrupted. Because then these companies could be shut down, they wouldn't have any chance of getting back on the day an order was due to enter, because then the workforce is already gone. SV is set to have a flexible system that we can use to help businesses in situations where it is difficult, as it is now. In the case of temporary workers, we are very pleased that the proposal has now been sent back to where it belongs, namely to the Labour Law Committee. SV strongly disagrees with the proposal. We hear that the government argues that this is for the benefit of those who are out of work, and we believe that they are wrong about it. The unemployed seamen receive very much in order to be taken into account for such a proposal. It is true that Fafo has pointed out that the vast majority of those who have been on temporary employment have been employed, but that is because today’s legislation is such that it ensures and requires permanent employment for those in such employment. When you have a code that ensures it, yes, then you can have a temporary job, and then most people get a permanent job. The point of this is that a regular job provides security. So that's going to be equal to-- let's say that's going to be equal to-- let's say that's going to be equal to-- let's say that's equal to-- let's say that's equal to-- let's say that's equal to-- let's say that's equal to-- let's say that's equal to-- let's say that's equal to-- let's say that's equal to-- let's say that's equal to-- let's say that's equal to-- let's Our claim is that there will be no more jobs by having more opening for temporary employees – there will only be more temporary employees and thus have a greater insecurity in their working situation than we think is right. That's why, as I said, we're glad that this isn't being implemented now, as the government has put it before, but we hear that there's a majority in this room that seems to think this is a right policy. We would therefore say that the fight on this matter is in close proximity. It will be one of the important things in the future to stop this proposal. There is a need for a work life that takes better care of employees, rather than a work life that becomes even tougher. So finally, the proposal to cut the daily allowance also goes against SV. The proposal attacks the rights of those who have the smallest jobs, and then it is assumed that those who have the least pay are those who need the money at least when they become unemployed. That is what SV believes is a total misconclusion, and we therefore oppose the proposal as presented by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e195	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e198	There are a large number of workers who have been on leave for a short or longer period of time in one year. Of course, that's unfortunate. In 2002, there were a total of 29 000 people who felt that they were out of work, but still added. Who has to pay? That's the question. Is it the community, or is it enterprises that are responsible for their employees when they are still added? Or is it that the load should be distributed in a reasonable way? If the employer's period is too short, the leave can be too easy to take up, and if he is too long, he does not work for the activities that need the labour but cannot provide work for some periods. The EEA Agreement requires equal treatment of all industries. If you're going to get a day's money in excess of 26 weeks, everyone's going to have to get it. What we are discussing today is the setting for Odelstinget. She is based on the reconciliation between the Labour Party and the Government Party, and then we talk about a ten-day payroll period for employers. Until 1 July, a permit system may also be extended from 26 to 42 weeks. Is this so untimely? I don't think so. The opposition says dramatically that this is to turn costs into business. Well, this business has only in Hordaland – I can take it – got 800 million. kr in tax bills from the central government, and I think they prefer to steer away, as far as possible, some permits and keep more of what they think. With ten days' pay, it is likely that getting, or perhaps none, will go in and out of leave, in any case – it will be less that becomes a reserve labour force at the expense of the community. Because we have to think it's going to be paid. In 2002, the cost to society is well over $1 billion. The Christian People's Party would stress that leave due to accidents or natural disasters is not charged to businesses. Businesses have experienced significant improvements in their framework conditions in the last two years. Tax bills, interest rebates and lower exchange rates mean that many are optimists, and I believe that ten days' pay on leave is hardly what is now going to turn the light off. Many companies are concerned because they are not now able to add temporarily. The Christian People's Party believes that there could be a lower threshold for those who are tired of entering the labour market, and therefore the Government makes such a proposal. We have a budget agreement with the Labour Party, and it means that this question is now being assessed by the Labour Law Committee in a holistic way. It's okay. The government's policy is to get people to work. No one has a good time going free for years – no one will be rich with it either. This is a statement for the taskbar.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e213	The central party reacted with wonder when the Government put forward the proposal for changes to the labour law in the case of temporary addition. The only thing right after our assessment is that the current selection of the law, i.e. the Labour Law Selection, continues its work and also assesses this question, and we are pleased that that part of the case goes back to the Government. So to the rules of the permit. The central party is deeply unbalanced in the government's proposals for tightening up. We think it's important for an enterprise to have opportunities to take care of the skills at a difficult stage. It is also important to provide financial security for its employees. We are deeply dissatisfied with the fact that companies have to have higher costs of leave in 2004 than in 2003. The government's proposal was dramatic, going from three to 30 days. The agreement has been somewhat better, from three to ten days, but we are also disagreeable in it, and are going to vote against the plural's proposal. The Labour Party has a certain past in the case of restrictions on the rules of leave. I think it is worth stressing that when, in the context of the 2002 budget, the government presented its proposal to reduce the daily allowance period from 52 to 26 weeks, there was another time when unemployment was involved. And when Bondevik II stuck to this proposal, and the committee was in agreement, it gave its support, it was with an emphasis that the Government should follow developments closely and evaluate the impact on different industries, and if necessary propose changes to the laws if the changes would have major negative consequences for the workers, or that unemployment would be significantly greater. We find it strange that the Government does not follow up on this point and did not seem to follow developments as closely as the Storting has requested. It's actually the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the SV and the Center Party, a number here in the Stortinget, which, in the course of a round, has been implementing the necessary changes to a regulatory framework that the Government is constantly engaged in. This happened first in relation to the transitional arrangements, as was also done in the 2003 budget, and it was in the revised national budget this year. The centre party wants to expand the permeability rules so that the maximum limit is extended from 42 weeks to 52 weeks for specific industries. That's because we think it should be taken into account for the many workers who are at risk of permitting; it should be taken into account for the many local environments that want to take care of people who have special education or experience, by securing this economic base for a difficult period. And I want to say, let's learn from 1999. Then there was a joint effort between municipalities, county councils, businesses and Aetat that made that, among other things. the paint industry has been able to take care of its additions for a very difficult period. It would be tragic if some of them were to disappear now because the government did not follow closely enough on the situation. And then I'm going to say that when it comes to the tightening up of the day-to-day arrangements, it happens under the control of a government that, in another context, is flagging high a poverty package with which it is very happy. So it's this government that's tightening up the possibilities of day money for those who have less connection to the world of work, they're sneaking in when it comes to the lower income limit. We're also going to vote against it. We want to take care of today's legislation, and it should be clear from the vote on which point the centre party is voting against the proposal that is before us today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e230	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The regulatory time is running out of time. [[Fooding, see page 197]] The President will propose that the morning sitting continue beyond the scheduled time, at 5 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e250	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e259	In Ot.prp. No 13 a number of legislative constraints on those who need vocational retraining have been proposed. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Government Parties and the Workers' Party, supports the proposals. The SV and the Centre are opposed to the changes, and the Progress Party has not expressed any views in this setting or in the configuration of the Financial Committee to which they refer. I therefore expect them to make their views known in the debate. The majority, I guess, will argue for their views. I'll be careful to take up one of them, which is dealt with in another odelstingsproposition, no. 10, but is mentioned here and is concerned with the assembly of the decision-making authority in matters of professional rehabilitation in Aetat. The Committee agrees that this may be appropriate and agrees. The majority also joined it during treatment of Ot.prp. No 10, but the Committee asks for an overview of the resources needed, both in the social security system and in the Aetat, in order to ensure that such a change is achieved, namely to ensure that matters are dealt with more quickly. There may be a difference in a move, but there must be resources and staff in place, so that this actually turns out in practice. So to the changes: there are 20,000 fewer disabled people participating in the labour market this year than last year. So there'll be fewer of them with problems, who'll be able to get to work. Social exclusion is increasing, disability is increasing. We have entered into an agreement on inclusive working life. Despite this, more and more people are going out of work for health reasons. Then the government says it wants to tailor and individualize, but in practice it does the opposite. It makes more rules, making it more difficult for those outside the labour market to take advantage of the measures that Aetat can offer. This applies to several areas. For example, in thisproposition, the Government proposes a limitation of school duration as a return measure. All studies show that if you have a disability or a disability, it is that which helps you that you have an above-average education. For the most part, they do not compete with the unskilled, they compete in a highly skilled labour market. A large number of people with disabilities need longer schooling to get to work. Some people also have to start quite far down their educational path. Such a restriction as is now imposed will be a summary scheme that will be inhibiting many of those who need longer schooling. It would be appropriate if we wanted to get more people to work, that the assessment of whether three months or four years are needed should be in Aetat and in the decision on whether or not to be reinstated. Equally, the Government promotes proposals to raise the age limit for schooling as a return from 22 to 26 years of age, with the argument that anyone under 26 should do so, and take the costs seam. Yeah, there's a lot of people like that. have not received basic, proper, reading and writing training in primary and secondary schools because they have difficulty in reading and writing. Very many of them are at Aetat. Many of them are young people. Unfortunately, some of them are also in prison. It is difficult to motivate these young people to enter a normal course of education. But they might be able to do it if they get it as a vocational rehabilitation. SV believes that it is very short-term savings to make such rules that now only have to make exceptions for the very, the most disabled. We believe that that assessment should be in Aetat. We believe that Aetat should be allowed to individualize and tailor its offerings within a broad regulatory framework. We are convinced that this is what will help more people to get into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e272	A short time ago, I read in Sarpsborg Arbeiderblad about Runar Bjørnstad. He wants most of all to feel that he is doing good for himself, and a steady job is very high on his wish list. But because he's sitting in a wheelchair, he doesn't see what he's doing. Instead, he is met with prejudices from several employers. To newspaper he says: ‘Functionally disabled people put as far back in the job queue as possible. I know a lot of people who go on disability, but who are motivated and want to work. The problem is that they do not have the opportunity in their working life». Then he explains: "It means a lot to me to be able to get up every day, go to work, do something and not least hit other people. I've been at home a lot, lived on disability. It was never about re-schooling the time I was injured." This says a lot about the need to provide a supply that is composed and flexible to those in Bear and similar living conditions. We need a system that allows people to use their abilities and, not least, their ability to work. There are too many people out of the labour market today. There's a lot of different reasons for that. But it's a fact that we're about to approach the top of the world in the number of mishaps. The rise in unemployment has been dramatic for the last two years. In particular, however, there are many disabled workers who are hard on the labour market. By the end of November, 80 300 working people were registered at Aetat. This is the first time that Aetat has registered more than 80,000 job-seekers with disabilities. The number of people with disabilities has increased by more than 25 000 over the last four years. In the last year, there are 20,000 fewer people with disabilities participating in the labour market. Until 2003, there has been an increase of about 9 pst. compared with 2002. This means that a much stronger effort is needed to get more hands at work. The working party will have a more inclusive working life, where there is room for everyone. It is good labour market policy, good family policy, good health policy and not least good social policy. The working party will have a less stressful, a warmer and a healthier working life. That is why we want a much more offensive policy to get people to work and to build up the skills of those who are unemployed. This is particularly true for people with disabilities. The working party is critical to stating where it is claimed that low benefits will help more people get work when possible, rather than looking for social security. It should not be such that the performances should be as small as possible, so that economic poverty forces people into poorly paid and insecure jobs. It is not a development that provides a better labour market for unemployable groups. This is the same principle that the Government used to reduce the daily allowance. We are strongly critical of this. Pressing people to work in a period where they shouldn't work, however, can lead to more failures and permanent disadvantages, i.e. the very opposite of what's meant. The working party welcomes the move to Aetat from 1 July 2004. Today, the social security system assesses whether the need for a professional right torecruitment is present, while Aetat is responsible for designing the rehabilitation system itself. The Labour Party believes that the intention of the change is good. The provision being made needs to be more tailor-made and tailored to individual needs and possibilities. This calls for greater flexibility in the management of the regulatory framework for the length and content of a re-entry process. Therefore, the Labour Party supports this change. We would like to stress that it is important that human and economic resources are in place as quickly as possible, so that this can be successful. It is of great value that the monitoring of resource changes in the Aetat and the social security system announced by the Government is being speeded up and that the Government reports changing needs back to the Storting in the revised national budget in 2004. As a result of the budgetary agreement, the Labour Party will vote in favour of changes to the legislation which would be a tightening of the current practice. The changes that are now being made must be thoroughly evaluated. We're going to follow developments and determine very carefully in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e310	From the right, it is important to stress that this proposition refers to the objective of maximising participation in the labour market rather than being passive social-security beneficiaries. There is good evidence to claim that the longer you are out of work, the harder it is to get back. The total social security period for persons at risk of falling out of work should be shortened. The right is satisfied that government policy, including historically, has spent a short time attacking the main causes of increasing unemployment. The growth in unemployment stems from the weak international economy and the strange main challenge in recent years as a result of expensive wage-fixing, high interest rates and strong dollar rates. We have noticed that there is now a growing optimism in business, and that the latest figures from the Statistical Central Bureau are already showing a decline in unemployment. Nevertheless, it is worth noting that during the last years there has been a significant increase in the number of persons receiving reintroduction benefits. The cost of re-employment benefits has been relatively higher than the number of persons with reduced employment. That is a bit of the background to the proposals that are being promoted in this matter as changes in the cap of the People's Security Act. 11 and 21. The proposals increase the age limit for school leaving as a follow-up measure from 22 years to 26 years. The three-year limitation of duration at school is introduced as a response measure. The right to some benefits for disabled persons who have an ordinary wage or salary in the event of sickness is restricted. In addition, the decision-making authority is transferred from the social security fund to Aetat in respect of the granting of redeployment under the Law on Social Security. There is reason to stress that overall, the proposals put forward in this proposition will discourage the financing of ordinary education through the resources of the population, and increase the incentives for rapid transition to work. These measures are also part of the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party, and we are pleased that in this matter there is a recommendation from a solid majority in the Municipal Committee of the Odelstingen to adopt the proposed legislative changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e319	Let me first be sorry that the Progress Party has been a little unclear. There have obviously been coordination problems within the batch of different fractions. Let me just say right away that the Progress Party supports the proposition, there should be no doubt about it, even if, in such a process as this, we are in the process of tightening up and amending legislation for some groups that may have enough problems already in relation to the labour market, we are somewhat in doubt when we are presented with these kinds of propositions in connection with the budget. We would have preferred to see this kind of propositions presented at an earlier stage, so that the Storting got a better basis for dealing with these kinds of issues. We would have preferred to see such a proposition come in the spring, so that we would have treated it then, with any implementation in the following year. However, it is clear that this type of worker is also being looked at, and the measures to be taken to make them more fit into the labour market. Now we actually have a negative development, and then it's clear that we have an existing legislation that's not good enough. It's a witness to this. When today's legislation makes sure that there are more and more cases that fall outside, we need to make some changes. Then one might like to discuss whether there are proper changes that are being made here, but we'll see in retrospect whether it has negative consequences or positive consequences. Such cases have been dealt with by Stortinget in the past, and the Stortinget has in fact reversed changes because it has had negative effects. So I'll try to express that it's under strong doubt the Progress Party supports the proposition. I also want to mention a matter that is not mentioned in the proposition. This relates to the limitation of the right to return in waiting time for appropriate work. The Progress Party has said that we want to postpone. We would like to have a bigger case on it in the revised version. We have included that in our alternative budget. We see that that's the largest and heaviest entry, and we're very sceptical that it's being implemented so quickly in a budget. I just want to end by saying that it is important in a situation where one believes that the economic cycle is turning around, and where one believes that the labour market will become more open in the future, that one does not lose focus on the people we are talking about here, nor does one lose focus on developments in the Norwegian labour market in relation to the enlargement of the EU, etc. I would have liked not only large-scale, but also government to focus as much on the labour reserve that lies here, as on picking up labour within the EU's enlargement and also on picking up unskilled labour outside the EEA area. We have as many people with labour resources going on in Norway as it is important to get into work. That's why I wanted a stronger focus on it from the Government as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e328	It's a problem and a challenge for all of us when every five working-age Northmen live on some kind of benefit from the big society. It should be very high in relation to every country we can or will compare with. Norwegian women and men have justly a higher participation rate than other countries as well. But are we really so much more sick and debilitated? It is alarming when the number of people who accept return benefits increases by 33 pst. from 1999 to 2001. The point of this case is changes that will help people who fall out of work to return to work more quickly. We cannot settle for half of the unemployed or infirms to wait for three years before the resettlement period is started. It's often too late. People are incapacitated by being parked like this, and so the government will take care of it. Of course, a faster transition to work is also beneficial for both the private and the social economy. And we have greater unemployment than we like. That's why the government has addressed this, and it's effective. We have attacked the cause, not just to minimize the consequences for the individual being framed. Over 4 pst. the fall in interest rates and the weakening of the exchange rate along with a moderate wage settlement has led to an increasing optimism in business and, fortunately, the sign of a decline in unemployment. I'm not going to go into the specific individual proposals, but that's what others have done. But the plurality is in this case formed by the government party together with the Labour Party, and now also the Progress Party has joined. Social exclusion is too extensive, and it is absolutely negative. Therefore, the Government is its policy of tailoring and making individual arrangements for the individual right policies. The fact that we're also focusing more on Aetat is a proper policy that one has to go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e343	We fight for those who have it tough, called it in a text message that was presented in the Newspaper in September, and it was the Christian People's Party's leader who made her know. The centre party acknowledges such a priority. But we sometimes found it hard to see the Christian People's Party on that line of time. If we're going to fight for those who have it tough, we need to make sure that more people get work, we need to secure a more social building, we need to secure a more fine-masked social security network, we need to ensure better public services, but we need to actually also secure resources for redistribution. And the funds are there in a fairer tax system. That's what the Center Party's priority is, rather than tightening up towards those who have it tough in many ways. There are leading numbers in this setting that show that the number of unread has increased by 3.2 pst. from last year and that 20,000 more disabled people are out of work than in the previous year. On the part of the centre party, I would like to stress that we support the proposal that professional rights should be assessed as early as possible. We believe it is very important to intensify efforts in relation to reintroduction in order to allow more people to use the part of themselves that is available for work. But we are very concerned that, at the same time, we are experiencing proposals that make it harder to deal with everyday life purely economically for those who then try to recover. Therefore, we disagree with several of the proposals that lie here. So we're going to keep today's right to return money waiting for proper work. We want to lift the ceiling on costs of re-training, and we think that the experience presented to the committee so far, and that of those taking IT training, on the one hand, shows that some have much shorter and cheaper arrangements, and that is good, but it also shows that there are some who need both more time and who should have had the possibility of a longer education costing more than $50,000. So the government proposes to change the schooling age limit from 22 to 26 in connection with rehabilitation measures. For our part, we see that it is possible to discuss that limit, but we do not think the Government has provided a good enough basis. We're a little scared, to say it like this, compared to what happened when it was about removing the ceiling of 50 000 kroner. There was a very strong line that there should be so many exceptions. In practice, I understand that it is difficult to come under those exceptions. Our advice to the Government when they now look at the age limit in relation to schooling will be that they look more closely at who might have the possibility to get under an exception. That is why we are voting against the proposal as it stands. Otherwise, I believe that the setting is based on how the center part voices. Let me also say that unfortunately there are some tightening suggestions that get more today. For our part, we are also going to follow developments very closely. I'll stop, otherwise, when it comes to the other issues, to what the case-speaker presented here. It is reassuring for the Committee that Karin Andersen is the case-speaker for these chapters, and for legislative proposals like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e358	Let me start with the trivial observation that politics is about creating a majority. And it's important to be involved in creating a majority for things that can help with the overall goals you want to achieve. The overall aim of the government is to provide more opportunities for working life, create more jobs and thus provide an economic basis for the Norwegian community. From that point of view, we should be very pleased that it has been possible to have a budgetary settlement that provides a budgetary policy to enable the increase in the Norwegian economy that has now begun to continue without giving us undue pressure in the economy. It's the only way we can create lasting jobs, both for the functionally healthy and for all the other groups in the Norwegian community who deserve to get to work. From that point of view, the Government found that there were some measures on the labour market which, although important, were not as important as the basic economic policy that would provide the basis for more jobs in Norway. In doing so, we made a settlement with which the government is very satisfied. But there's one side we've been so concerned about in this connection that we would hardly have made a settlement if we hadn't gotten some excitement about it. There are reforms that allow more people to return to work and more people with disabilities to have a real chance of getting around to work. As many people here have pointed out, it is very important that all those who are at disadvantage or who are at risk of becoming dissatisfaction actually get a chance to get to and get the follow-up and training needed to do so. When the Storting today, after all probability, gives its support to a reform that means that those who are going to be reinstated actually get reinstated before they are so passive that they will never be able to enter the labour market, there is a reform of greater reach and greater importance for people in Norway with sickness or injury than I think we are overseeing today. We have a lot of people on re-entry in Norway, but many of those who are on re-entry have gone so long and waited before they have escaped to re-entry that they have in practice been deprived of waiting, not of their harm or of their disability. The fact that we are now going to have a big upswing in the Stortinget that re-entry is going in at an earlier time, that Aetat is going to have the right to decide when to re-enter, is more important than we might know here in the hall today. At the same time, it is important that we are aware of the fact that prevention is also better than ex post work in this area. In Norway today, we use disproportionately much training for people who have come into a position where they have not been able to continue in their old work, and we spend disproportionately little on continuing training that can prevent people from getting into that situation. If we are to have the opportunity to work more actively in the prevention of continuing education, we need to look at the mechanisms we have for supporting people who are re-entering, in order to unlock the parts of the system that do not hit the groups we want to prioritise. That is why the Government believes that a three-year ceiling on resettlement should be introduced and that the age limit should be raised. It is not that we should not have a good offer for those who need it, but that we should target the measures and get through the space of action so that perhaps we can improve the prevention of continuing training. In this respect, I would like to make it clear that the Government's proposal does not have the consequences of the representative Karin Andersen. Disabled persons are protected at the age limit and those in need of a special training course due to illness, injury or lye are protected from the three-year limit. We are concerned that we should have a very good offer for those who need organized training as part of their return course. At the same time, however, we must be willing to apply priority criteria to return costs if we are to have the opportunity to carry out a combination of prevention and curative work in this area – which we are committed to having in other areas as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e386	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e389	10.3 pst. of all the Northmen between the ages of 18 and 67 are now disabled. That's an increase of 3.2 pst. of September 2002. When we know that in addition, there are 232 600 people who have been put out of the labour market in whole or in part and who are looking for work through Aetat, we see how serious this situation actually is. This summer Odelstinget will treat Ot.prp. No 102 for 2001-2002, where the Government wrote: ‘Generally, low social benefits may help others to continue working when possible rather than applying for social security.’ My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think that the number of disabled people would be lower if the social benefits were lower?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e402	It's always interesting to take quotes out of context and use them for other purposes. This government has a clear view that the benefits of the disabled and others in Norway are not too low. We have no desire to make them lower. On the other hand, we have said very clearly in other contexts that we are concerned that we should make it profitable for people to work if they have the opportunity. One of the ways we want to make it more profitable to work is to lower taxes on people. I hope Upbebøen Hansen's view is also that it should be profitable to work, that he can provide support for that view. The sentence that Uppebøen Hansen referred to is from a discussion where, among other things, argued that economic incentives could also work. However, the government’s view is that the disadvantaged in Norway are not too weak. We have no desire to make things worse for them, but we would like to do better for those who work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e411	SV is not surprised that the government chooses to impose the burden on people with poor health and those without a job, and to shield the tax burden on those who have millions of unemployed income. But I'm quite surprised that the government, which says it's too tailor-made and individual arrangements, is well served to make more rules, from which they must have some exceptions, and which are so tight that you have to be very disabled to get through the loop. They do not trust that Aetat, when making a decision on a rehabilitation scheme, is best placed to assess whether to take three months’ training, or for example: seven years of education, if you want to become a priest. I know a girl sitting in a wheelchair who wants to, but who already has the rules we have today, has had limitations on that. What's the reason for that? Why doesn't the Council of State trust that Aetat is the best fit to make such assessments and find the reconstruction that makes people actually come to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e416	Of course we trust Aetat's beauty. I have stressed on several occasions from this pulpit that we want to give Aetat greater opportunities for the exercise of discretion than Karin Andersen and others in this Chamber have mentioned. However, the fact that Aetat is required to execute a judgement does not detract from the government's obligation to determine the framework within which that judgement is to be exercised. What we are now saying very clearly, and to which a majority in the United Kingdom seems to join, is that in the case of vocational rehabilitation for persons below the new age limit, it should be exercised on the basis of the criterion that there should normally be no support for vocational rehabilitation in that age group, but that exemptions should be made for young people who are in a situation where they need special treatment because of ‘disease, injury or Lyche’. This applies to young disabled people, to road damage, and to others in the same category.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e423	As the legislation now appears, it is particularly important to define something closer to which it should apply. Who are these exceptions to apply? I ask the Council of State to give an example of what he calls ‘disease, injury or hearing’ and to tell anyone who should have the opportunity to enter the apartheid and have the possibility to spend more than three years on his challenge. The same is true in relation to this by increasing the age limit from 22 to 26 years. Who are these groups? Who is it that, because of illness, injury or hearing, is in a significantly different situation, which means that they should be able to get under the exception?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e430	The exemption provision is the same as that in general, i.e. for persons who are in a significantly different situation from others because of ‘disease, injury or lying’. A judgement shall be exercised there. For the age limit, examples are given in the proposition. The examples mentioned are those who are disabled by work in the group of young disabled people, young people who have been born without birth, persons who have been injured, for example. after serious road damage and persons with serious and long-term diseases. Then Aetat is just going to exercise a discretion within these frameworks that the representative Karin Andersen called for earlier. But it's not a discretion to be exercised within any framework other than the concepts that already apply in popular fear.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e437	In the context of the treatment of the 2003 State budget, it was agreed to cut the schemes for the disabled and for the disabled. The government was then asked to figure out what kind of effect these cuts would have on the economy and the life situation of the users. My question is: would we expect the government to review the situation of life and the economic situation of these groups soon, so that we in this house can assess in a complete context where we should be able to direct our efforts?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e444	I can't remember – but I have to make sure that I remember faults – that Stortinget has asked us to make a total assessment of the situation for all those who are in recovery or in a similar situation. Of course, we will follow up all the requests that come from Stortinget, and we will do so on an ongoing basis. Biggest gets a report on it. With regard to the more general issues of Opbebøen Hansen, it is clear that the Government is constantly assessing the impact of the life situation of different groups on the design of all support schemes, all social security schemes and all social security schemes. It is precisely from what the Government is promoting the proposals it is promoting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e451	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e456	SV understands that the Workers' Party has a heavy day today. We understand that because the Council of State in its statement underlined the importance of this matter for them. They would not have made a settlement if this matter had not been in place. It says a little bit about how important these changes are now, and how hard they are. On the SV side, we believe that these changes should be as important for the Workers' Party as they are for the Government. It should have been an ultimate claim that you had not agreed to this, because this affects those who need our help the most. It's not very eye-catching when the Right believes you're motivated by poor advice, less education and more debt. It is well worth noting those who have poor health, those who are out of work and those who have poor advice, while those on the other end of the income scale who are known to be best motivated by large tax relief. SV deeply disagrees with this and believes that one of the most important things we could do, both to ensure that more people get into work and to develop society in a more humane direction, would be to make sure that people who have poor health, who are outside the workplace, could get into work. That's why I have to say that we're quite upset that the majority are in favour of this, because the Progress Party, which in very many contexts believes that they should be the weak spokespersons, does so, and that some people think that more disabled people are going to get into work by getting the card on the possibility of getting education. We know that this is the key to working life for disabled people and people with disabilities. That the waiting time in advance of getting re-entry cut down is very good. In retrospect, however, you may not get a job immediately, because we know that it is almost necessary to enter the doors of employers and bring people in if they are disabled or immigrants, in order to convince employers that it is a trick, here is an employee who is good to hire. Therefore, it may take longer and therefore SV believes that it is important that this group has this income hedge that they now lose. And we disagree with – what to say – the thought that seems to be behind, that there are people here who are wondering about staying at home on the couch one more year, with social benefits from the public. We believe that this is wrong. So this is a heavy day. I am glad that there are no disabled people sitting and listening to this debate. They had been terribly disappointed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e467	I do not think the post to the representative Andersen can stand undisputed. Disabled persons are protected in the cuts made. If someone says something else, they haven't read the proposal and the proposition. Otherwise, I would like to make it clear that when I said that this matter was so important that we would not enter into a budgetary settlement if we had not got it, it was not the cuts I talked about, but to have measures put in place for people who have injury or disease, so early that they actually have an opportunity to benefit from a return run. I am very pleased that there is a broad consensus in Stortinget on this matter, and I am very pleased that we have the support of the Workers' Party in this matter. I would like to say most strongly from the Government that we have not considered the Workers' Party's support for the tightening up of the arrangements as the central thing in the matter, but the support for people who are entitled to reintroduction is given it early.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e474	It was an interesting information about what it was important to do in the budget agreement. But I just want to draw attention to the fact that the organisations of disabled people have experience in how such exemption rules are practised, for example. now in relation to the ceiling on costs. It's not a good experience. Disability organisations have read and commented on the Storting, and they are clearly negative. They don't have any good experience with such intrusions. On the contrary, they point to post-examination studies which show that long-term education is the only compensation for disability and disability. That is the reality. The Council of States cannot ignore that. That means that these contractions will have a negative effect on people with poor health who are out of work. That's why it's also important to go through this area carefully every year, and it's also going to oblige the Government to do ahead, so that we get a complete overview and can see developments in this area in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e482	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over. [[Fotation, see page 199]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e490	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e541	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e551	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e558	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kari Lise Holmberg on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e608	The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e620	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on social security is amended as follows: the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 4-15 is replaced by the following:If the income has been lower than twice the basic amount, the full social security period is 52 weeks.» [[People's Security Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e671	The President would like to draw attention to the fact that the rapporteur has corrected point (a) of the first paragraph to read as follows: ‘10 working days in the case of full leave and at least 40 pst. reduction of working time’» First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 6 May 1988 No 22 on compulsory pay during leave is amended as follows: § 3 first paragraph is replaced by the following:Worker is entitled to pay and other benefits from the employer for the first time after the period of leave has started. [[1]] The employer’s period runs from the first working day the leave covers. The length of the employer’s period is: a) 5 working days in the case of full leave and at least 50 pst. reduction in working time (b) 10 working days at less than 50 pst. reduction of working time If the permit is due to fire, accidents or natural circumstances, no employer period shall apply.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e708	It is then voted over the corrected setting. The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e737	The Central Party has announced that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e749	I'm sorry, but there's reason to take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e756	Then we take the vote again. So the center party has notified us that they're moving in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e768	I am sorry, but can we go back and take the vote on § 3 again as well. [[1]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e775	The representative Sandberg believes that the voting theme under § 3 was not clear enough. [[1]] We then go back to § 3 [[1]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e818	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e828	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e916	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e951	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09-lower.ana.ud118e961	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
