ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e119	The representative, Haakon Blankenborg, who has been on leave, has once again taken up his seat. Two permit applications are available: From 3 December to 9 December in order to take part as an observer of the Council of Europe in the parliamentary elections to the Russian Duma, and to take part in the meeting of the Council of Europe Monitoring Committee in Paris, the representative André Kvakkestad shall apply for leave. From the representative Siri Hall Arnøy an application for welfare leave is made from 3 December to 9 December. On the proposal of the President, a unanimous decision was taken. 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Harald Espelund and Christian Holm.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e156	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e161	I suggest Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e166	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starfelt and Kjell Engebretsen are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Kjell Engebretsen are considered unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e174	The representative Heidi Sørensen will make a private proposal,
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e177	On behalf of the big business representative Kenneth Svendsen and myself, I would like to propose a temporary stoppage in all the work on the Tønsberg package.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e183	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e197	The budgetary configuration of the Control and Constitutional Committee does not involve the big drama — nor this year. This year, however, the budgetary agreement is cut short in those chapters that fall within the remit of the Committee — at least in some of them. And that's pretty unusual. The setting shows that the Workers' Party and the government parties form a majority, while both the SV and the Progress Party have alternative proposals. The budget setting includes the Storting and the institutions subject to the Storing. These are the Riksrevisionen, the Stortinge Ombudsman for the administration and the Stortinge Control Committee for the intelligence, surveillance and security services. I am sure that I have the whole committee with me when I express satisfaction with the job done by these, as well as the administration and employees of Storting. The largest increase in the budget has been achieved by the Storting, as was the case for 2002 and 2003. This is due to decisions taken earlier, mainly the establishment of the Akersgat Committee House and other refurbishment of new premises and their integration into the building mass of the Storting. I will mention in particular the construction of an experience centre, which an overall committee believes will mean strengthening the work of facilitating increased democratic engagement among young people. Both the Committee and the Presidency have visited a similar centre in the Danish People's Party, and have self-evidently experienced engaged youth as politicians for one day. The Committee building will be completed during the spring 2004 session. I am sure that the Committee House will facilitate the work of the committees and ensure the democratic innovation that open committee hearings are and have been, in an even better way. The fact that the committee hearings are generally open is an important part of the ongoing efforts to strengthen democracy. Democracy requires transparency, including: transparency about who is involved in lobbying, and hence who can make important assumptions about the decisions of the Storting. The size has been subject to measures to improve efficiency. I would like to mention in particular the work on the VIS project, which was launched in 2001, and which included: has resulted in a new document repository, portal system and publication and agent tool. This has at least had two consequences: firstly, hopefully the work of the Storting is more accessible to the public. Secondly, this and various other measures have led to a 30-tonne reduction in the consumption of paper by the Storting compared to 2001. The budget agreement involves a cut of 13 million. NOK in Storting’s operating expenses and SEK 7 million. NOK less for the purchase of apartments, while the Storting is charged with the sale of apartments for the same sum. However, as a result of a change in estimates for the conversion of the Committee House, the financial decision increased by 13 million. kr for this purpose. It is in line with the request of the Presidency. The cut in operating costs will necessarily require a reduction in travel activity and greater demands for even more efficient operation. The national audit is the Stortinge’s main instrument for the Stortinge to exercise its control function. I want to underline the importance of the Riksrevision getting the space needed to do the job to do. We will be able to come back to this in the spring when the Committee is considering proposals for legislation and instructions for the National Audit Office. The budget agreement involves a cut of 10 million. kr in relation to the original proposal of the Presidency in respect of the Riksrevision. In the case of SV's setting for this, I will come back to the later. The Ombudsman received several posts during the budgetary procedure last year and was able to purchase new equipment, including: archive system. The majority, all except the Advance Party, join the Presidency's original proposal for next year. The Committee assumes that with this proposal, the Ombudsman may continue to operate at the current level of the year. The Committee agrees with the important objective of reducing the file and the time it takes to deal with complaints. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Ombudsman now places more emphasis on general investigations into administrative procedures. Both the Socialist Left Party and the Advance Party call on the Civil Ombudsman to promote more on his own initiative matters to the Stortinge outside the Annual Report, in particular those matters which are of a principle or of great general interest. This will allow the Stortinget to be better up-to-date and give the Civil Ombudsman feedback along the way. So to the Socialist Left Party's proposal. We want to strengthen the work of the EOS Committee by proposing a new post as a professional secretary in the field of ICT. In a letter to the Presidency, the EOS Committee shows that information exchange and cooperation between the EOS services of the various countries has increased considerably since 11 September 2001 and the escalation of counter-terrorism. However, this also requires increased competence and resources of those who are required to control services. Control is becoming increasingly important from the point of view of legal certainty and democracy. We hope that the EOS Committee can get the job needed at the next crossroads. The agreement, as I have said, involves a cut of 10 million. kr in relation to the original proposal to grant the Riksrevision. Now the Riks revision says that it's wise to reduce the cost by half. Further cuts will mean a reduction in activity level. SV cannot join a proposal that involves a reduced level of activity, because the Riksrevision has more and no fewer tasks in 2004. SV therefore proposes 5 million. Mr Riksrevision and Mr van den Broek to the EOS Committee on the basis of the majority's proposal. Since we have to deal with the adopted framework, we propose a corresponding reduction in the operating costs of Storting. With this, I present the Committee's configuration and take up the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e227	The representative of Ågot Valle has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e230	I agree in all essential areas with the committee chairman's review of the matter. Nevertheless, I have a few comments on a budget that rarely creates the big debates here in the Chamber, as the committee leader said – not because this budget is inconclusive, on the contrary, but because there is usually a large consensus on the budget. So is this year. As we heard in the committee chairman's statement, there is some disagreement in the Riksrevision budget. It's true that the Riksrevision has got 10 million. kr less than expected to be needed for the coming year. Now there are very few businesses, if any, that get the budget they really think they need. Not even the Storting gets it. But now it's going to be added that the Riksaudition has a very special role in our society. They make their significant contribution to the exercise by the Storting of the constitutional control of the Government and the administration. Of course, we should not be in a situation where this work and this control are weakened. Now we believe that the activities of the National Audit Office are not weakened by this budget. The national audit budget for the coming year has a growth of 3.3 p.m., even after the reduction, which means a real growth even when we correct for inflation. Another area is the EOS Committee and their important work for the Storting. They have shown and supported the need to strengthen the business with a position. There is a great deal of consensus in the Committee that there is a need for this. We're sorry that it's not possible to do this within the existing framework, as it looks now. However, there is broad agreement that the need for the position is present. We will actively assess whether there is a possibility of redispatching during the year, so that this position can be put in place. The working party will vote in favour of the setting and the minority proposals that will be taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e241	It is my first time – at least in the time I have been in this house – that in the context of budgetary negotiations in the house, proposals have been made to reduce the proposed budgeting of the Presidency in relation to the Riksrevision. This is the first time. And it's not very pleasant when we think about the importance of having proper control of central government after the central government has grown quite strongly in terms of both number and power. It worries me. We have the previous term a little bit of other countries when we talk to the National Audit Office, when you say that one of the weapons that we control can use against us, is that if we become too active, they reduce our appropriations. We've smiled a little bit of it when we heard it, because it's not like that in Norway. That's the way it is now in Norway. Former, current and likely future government parties have merged to cut the Riksrevision. I agree with Kjell Engebretsen that this is not dramatic. But it's the first time, and it's a signal. A letter from the Riksrevision states that this will lead to a reduction in activity. Therefore, there are some fundamental concerns I have when the controller reduces the capacity of the controller. The Storting shouldn't have been in on that. So we're not involved in any reduction in the budget for the Riksrevision. So Kjell Engretsen says that it must be possible to redispatch a new position in the EOS Committee. You could do that now. It would have been quite possible, as among others. The Socialist Left Party and we do, find other ways to cover the reduction in the Framework Area 14, which we have to deal with. We have proposed to shift some of the investments in Stortinget, which is quite large at the moment. We have learned from the Government and the Workers' Party, which believe they have found in their budgetary settlement by simply noting that some planned bills to be paid in December of next year are being shifted out to January of the following year, because there is not full progress in the investment projects. So they call it an invasion to shift the payment of a bill from December 2004 to 2005. We must then be able to plan well in this way in Stortinget that we will move some of the large investments we have, in 2005, and thus find a way to absorb them. The other area we have thought there are significant opportunities to reduce in the Storting is the travel business, both the committee travel company and the delegation travel business. It's probably also a problem when there's a lot of people out on the road, getting the Storting to decide and function. So there are many who would have welcomed a reduction in travel activity. In terms of possible delegation trips, we might be able to reconsider whether we have to be in absolutely all of the organisations we're now in. For one thing, I would like to point out that we had no problems with joining the Nordic Council delegation, because the Nordic Council Parliamentary Assembly does not have the meaning it might once had in the 1960s and 1970s. So we want to cut there instead, and that way we've found room to create a new position in the EOS Committee. The Labour Party could have done the same by giving a slightly different priority, perhaps cutting a little bit more on the travel activities of Stortingen, to find room for the position in the EOS Committee that the sample itself has asked for. There is no redisposal within the hood. 44, Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Services Control Committee of the EEAS, for which there is only one item, called ‘operating expenditure’. If you're going to increase something there, it's going to have to come as an additional grant from Stortinget. I understand that it is not that easy within a budget settlement with a framework. But you might be able to look forward to revision. Then there is no framework, there is no requirement for containment, and you can spend fresh money. In that case, there is no problem for us to give our agreement in connection with the revision, but we would like to have it done immediately. The Advance Party also wants to strengthen the Civil Ombudsman. We still note that there is a great deal of work to be done, and that the processing time is not good enough because of a lack of resources. We therefore strengthen the Civil Ombudsman's budget by 2 million. kr. Of course, we have adhered to the framework decisions taken by the Stortinget, but with a different device in the framework area 14. We have also made sure that the operating costs of Storting are not cut so that for example. a committee that wants to hold an open hearing is faced with that no, we can't, because we don't have budgetary resources for that. It is also pointed out by the Presidency that there may be an opportunity for us to reduce the number of open hearings due to budgetary problems. We don't think that's appropriate and sensible. We believe that, for example, Hearings are a sensible and good working method, which we should be able to afford to hold. So that's why we've cut in other areas. With these words, I refer to the proposal of the Progress Party for allocations in the framework area 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e260	The representative Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestion he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e263	Most of the budget we are discussing today, we agree. I just want to comment briefly on the points where the Christian People's Party is being challenged in this debate right now. I notice that the representative Hagen said that the rights of the Riksrevision have been reduced compared to those of the Riksrevision itself. The reason why the permits are cut is very simple: the parties to the budget agreement did not choose to protect any area when we were going to find cover for the budget agreement. It's that simple. But the situation of the Riksrevision is not dramatic. I noticed that it was also the representative Hagen mentioned. The next year, even after the cut, there will be an increase in the number of runs at the lower edge of 10 million. kr – i.e., as the representative, Engebretsen said, 3.3 pst. The National Audit Office will receive more than 300 million. kr to drive for. All other states have experienced cutbacks in the last few years in connection with budgetary work. Next year, the organisation National Audit Office will also have to find out how it is possible to drive more efficiently for the funds they are going through. When it comes to Mr Hagen's remarks that one has a position on the budget of the National Audit Office that shows that one is skeptical about exercising control, I don't think one can derive it from this proposal. The increase that is in spite of everything is a guarantee, and it will present a challenge to the organisation of the National Audit Office to operate efficiently and solidly, as he has done until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e270	The Chairman of the Committee pointed out in his introduction that one of the reasons for the increase in the budget of the Grand Duchy was the investment and upgrading of the house of the so-called Committees, as well as the experience centre. In this context, I would like to point out that the innovation that this experience centre represents is probably something that in the years to come will appear to be a very wise decision by the Stortinge, because it will help to open up the Stortinge to new groups, and that new groups of young people will have the opportunity to learn about political processes and what is going on here in the house. It has significant self-esteem, which I think we should not underestimate, so I look forward to the day when this can be used. Otherwise, I would like to make a few comments related to the budget agreement and they cut as a result. In his statement, the representative Hagen attempted to formulate some kind of conspiracy theory that in this Riksrevsion cut there was a kind of ‘thank you for the last’ or revenge from someone who thought the Riksrevision was too zealous in the service. He more than at least suggested that there could be such a connection. I have to say that I'm reacting very strongly, because I don't think we can act so that any area should be permanently protected for any reduction. In addition, it is pointed out in the setting, which is fully demonstrated that there will be a real growth for the Riksrevision next year, but in relation to the original proposal there will be a slight decrease. But the growth is still real after the price rise has been taken into account. Otherwise, the setting shows that the Storting must also go through its own business. There's a letter from the Presidency about how you think these cuts coming into Storting's business will follow up in the coming year. So it shows that even the Storing has to go on its own and make things more efficient and fairer. Furthermore, the representatives of the Right will vote in favour of the majority vote and against the proposals put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e281	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 815]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e297	Several times we have said that one of the biggest tasks is to check whether government and administration follow the decisions taken by the Storting, and it is important to confirm it once again. The Civil Ombudsman is the extended arm of the Storting and the practical exercise of parts of this control. Not only that, the Civil Ombudsman is the people's lawyer and has the entire public administration as a working area. The Ombudsman therefore has a very important role to play. I would like to stress that it is therefore important for the administration to follow up on or take the decisions or recommendations made by the Ombudsman. It is important in relation to trust in administration and legal certainty for individuals. It presupposes that the administration prioritises both the enquiries of the Ombudsman and puts a considerable amount of work into them. The Committee is well pleased with the job done by the Civil Ombudsman, and it is therefore a unanimous committee that supports this position when it comes to the handling of the Annual Report. In the Annual Report, the Ombudsman is doing well to ensure that the legal issues raised by the complaints are becoming increasingly complex and difficult to understand. Public law is increasingly giving citizens rights. Legalisation was also a subject of the Final Report of the Authority. The increasing legalisation of administrative relations with citizens helps to strengthen the legal status of individuals, but at the same time increases expectations as to what the administration should be able to do. The fact that the rights are enshrined in discretionary terms and expressions contributes to the increasingly complex, resource-intensive and time-consuming procedures at the Ombudsman’s office. It is therefore important that the Stortinge provides a financial framework that is necessary for the Ombudsman to carry out the job as an inspector and the people's lawyer. It appears that the issue of transparency in the internal administrative documents still appears to be partly unclear. When examining the annual report for 2001, an overall committee asked the Ombudsman to assess whether a change in the rules was necessary to confirm the Ombudsman’s right of access. The problem was then highlighted by two things. The Official Journal of the Bergen asked for transparency around the Globe II case. The Ombudsman asked for transparency to assess the use of more publicity in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. Suffering from an internal dialogue on how to deal with a case for the Civil Ombudsman, an overall committee concluded with the Ombudsman’s assessments that the Ministry of Justice’s interpretation of the Ombudsman’s Act § 7 was poorly correlated with the Ombudsman’s mandate – for the Ombudsman’s right to borrow documents must not be restricted. Indeed, the broad powers of the administration are compensated for by the fact that the Ombudsman is able to investigate the reasons for the refusals. An overall committee confirms in the setting we are considering now that the provision of the Ombudsman’s Act § 7 must also apply to the internal documents which the Ministry of Justice has considered to have been exempted from the Ombudsman’s transparency. I challenge the Minister of Justice to confirm the same thing. If he does not do so, it may be appropriate to come back with proposals to amend the Ombudsman’s law. Last year, the Ombudsman raised two questions — yes, more, but at least two questions raised by the Committee in its position: What role does the Ombudsman play after the conversion of the allowance? And should the relationship between the Ombudsman and human rights be clarified? The Committee asked the Ombudsman to come back with proposals. The Committee subscribes to the Ombudsman’s assessments and proposals, as they have been submitted to the Committee, and as it is clear from matters we are going to deal with later today, in the European Parliament, on changes in instructions, and in the Odelsting, on changes in law. The Committee considers that the Ombudsman cannot or should not play a role in the treatment of cheap substitutes. Furthermore, the Committee advocates the addition of Section 3 of the Ombudsman Act, which requires the Ombudsman to ensure that human rights are upheld. The Committee assumes that the Ombudsman’s Office has the necessary expertise to address this aspect of the evaluation of administrative decisions in the future, and the Committee has also noted with interest the cooperation to be undertaken with the Human Rights Centre at the University of Oslo. In the annual report, the Ombudsman raises the important question of the freedom of expression of employees. Freedom of expression is an important prerequisite and an important element of democracy. The starting point must be that the freedom of expression of public servants must also include opinions on matters falling within their own field of activity and affect the relationship with the employer. As the Ombudsman writes: ‘The management of a hospital must be able to give a critical opinion on cuttings at the hospital and a principal of a school must be able to defend the interests of the school, even if this is not in accordance with the position taken by the municipality’s management.’;» However, it is clear that the employee must be required to state explicitly that he or she is speaking on his own behalf and not on behalf of the business, as the Civil Ombudsman writes. In the media, we have been able to read about employees who tell us what they think is critical in municipalities or health businesses. I believe, and SV believes, that this is a matter of importance for both decision-makers and the public. According to the media, several people who tell of the conditions they perceive have been exposed to threats of dismissal or other forms of reprisal. I would like to stress that this is an important topic, and I am absolutely sure that we will come back to it when we deal with later annual reports and when we deal with constitutional proposals on freedom of expression. I have chosen to comment on these areas, but I would point out that the Civil Ombudsman has raised a number of interesting and important issues that the Committee has commented on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e324	I will join very briefly in what the committee leader says. The notification is comprehensive and shows a significant activity with the Ombudsman. It is also the case that matters are becoming increasingly complicated, including for the population, who are facing increasingly complex and unbridled legislation – it is complicated for the civil service to be able to perform its duties in the way they should in every context, and of course, there are ultimately more and more complex issues that go to the Ombudsman. So the Civil Ombudsman has a major and important role in society. I asked for the floor just to underline what the entire committee is behind, that nothing should prevent or delay the work of the Civil Ombudsman. On the contrary, it must be such that the administration at all levels actively contributes to the execution of cases by the Civil Ombudsman until a decision is taken against the individual addressing the Civil Ombudsman, and that the administration is positively prepared and prepared to assist the Civil Ombudsman in obtaining the decisions the Civil Ombudsman considers to be correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e331	There are a few things in this matter I want to point out. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Civil Ombudsman and his staff for their work. It is a very thorough message to the Storting, a message that might have deserved more attention and more thorough treatment, including the individual issues in it. But I would like to give full support to the fact that the Ombudsman is the Ombudsman of the Storting and is acting on behalf of the Stortinget, and then we do not have to go through each case. I interpret it there that we join the Civil Ombudsman's assessments unless we explicitly say otherwise, so that when the Civil Ombudsman does his work, he does it on behalf of the Stortinget, and with the Storting in his back. I would like to mention from the Committee's point of view that we hope that the Civil Ombudsman will carry out several general investigations into special administrative bodies, which we consider very valuable. Gradually, a practice has developed in the second control body, the Riksaudition, with so-called administrative audit, where Stortinget gets its own cases, Document No. 3-series, for treatment. I wish we could also get a few more of these kinds of things from the Civil Ombudsman. The Committee has pointed out that the Ombudsman considers examining the risk of different practices between the different regions of the criminal justice system, including different practices with regard to the level of reaction. It would have been one sensible area to go into. There are many areas where there should be equal treatment of equal cases across the country. Sometimes, there must be some who are careful not to develop different practices and systems in the same field so that citizens do not receive the same treatment across the country. I would also like to join the chairman of the committee when it comes to freedom of expression also for public servants. That's a very important point. After having had some scandals, perhaps primarily in our neighbouring countries, but there may well have been some in Norway, we know that being what abroad is called "whistle-blower" or "sladderank" can be very negative for the person who says about unacceptable conditions in a workplace, either for the workers or for others involved, for example. in healthcare, patients and the elderly, the elderly. I want to provide clear support for a system where there is protection for the employees who have a legitimate reason to notify others of unacceptable conditions, after trying in vain to address matters internally in the systems. In our group, we have started a work on our own "whistle-blowing" law, which, under certain conditions, is to protect those who say off, from representatives from superiors. Some information was provided to the Committee, including: during our visit to Australia, where they have their own Whistle-blowering law. So do they in the United States. We are now working on trying, if necessary in cooperation with others, to promote equivalents in Norway. Because it is boring when we hear about representations to government employees in e.g. The care of the elderly, the health care system or the school system, where you have to deal with overall and more difficult work because you have allowed yourself not to give up after you have tried in-house, and then perhaps gone to the press, perhaps to the overall authority, perhaps even gone to some politicians and warned. Then you have to be able to do it, if that's good reason. Of course, you can't raise your head because you've got a legitimate reproof. We need to have orderly relationships. But where it is justified, one should be able to say from and have freedom of expression without risking represals. The last point I want to mention was also the committee leader inside. Like her, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice to confirm that he is in agreement with the unanimous comments of the Committee. In the past, when the Ombudsman asked for transparency in the matter referred to the chairperson of the committee, the Ministry of Justice considered that such transparency should not be granted. This was pointed out earlier, and the Civil Ombudsman was asked to make an assessment. At the end of his letter, which is an attachment to the setting, he writes: ‘I assume that there will be no need to amend Section 7 of the Ombudsman’s Act if it is stated by Stortinges that this provision must also apply to the internal documents which the Ministry of Justice has considered to be exempt from the Ombudsman’s transparency. «The Committee agrees that the provision of Section 7 of the Ombudsman’s Act must also apply to the internal documents which the Ministry of Justice has considered to be exempt from the Ombudsman’s transparency. Furthermore, the Committee agrees with the Ombudsman’s assessments that, in this context, an amendment to the Act on Ombudsman § 7 will not be necessary.»; A unanimous committee has now determined how this is to be understood. And I assume that the Minister of Justice will accept that now the Stortinget has clarified the situation, so that there will be no comments in the future when the Civil Ombudsman possibly asks for access to the type of documents he previously did not have access to. Now it is established by the Storting that such transparency is to be provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e352	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e355	President!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e362	Carl I. Hagen gets the floor again.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e365	Since the Minister of Justice has chosen not to confirm what we have requested, I would like to express the interpretation that the silence of the Minister of Justice means that he accepts that the Storting has clarified the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e370	Not only was the Minister of Justice quiet, he nodded too. So the president doesn't think this will be a problem in the future. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 818]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e388	So, as the committee's chairman mentioned in his statement on the previous case, the Civil Ombudsman's annual report, instructions and law are discussed and seen in a little context. Two amendments to this instruction are proposed, namely that complaints against decisions taken by the Committee on the Privilege shall fall outside the area of the Ombudsman and that the Ombudsman's staff shall have the right to close cases when it is clear that it is not relevant for the Ombudsman to deal with them. But this requires that there are very clear guidelines, which are a prerequisite for this change. Otherwise, as mentioned earlier, there is unanimity in the Committee on the proposals. It is simple, but absolutely necessary changes that are made to the Civil Ombudsman's instructions, also in the law that we are going to deal with later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e397	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 818]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e413	The annual report of the National Audit Office gives a very good impression of the activities of the National Audit Office in 2002. The national audit shall, in the opinion of the Committee, have a more important and important role to play in monitoring the activities carried out by the administration. Constantly tougher administrative efficiency requirements, ongoing change processes and a growing and constantly changing level of management mean that it is important that the State has an effective body to carry out a thorough control of the work carried out by the administration. For the Storting, it is also important that the Riksrevision carries out effective control of the follow-up to the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. The Committee also has new laws and instructions for the Riksaudition, and will later come back in depth to many fundamental issues relating to how to organise the Riksaudition in Norway. The Committee has reviewed the notification of the Riksrevision and refers to the transmission in 2002 of seven management projects to the Stortinget as Document No. Three things. Three management projects were completed after pre-analysis or during the main analysis. Out of the projects started, 31 were continued in 2002. The follow-up to nine administrative audits dealt with by the Stortinget in 1999 was discussed in Document No. 3:1 for 2002-2003, and two administrative reports have been forwarded to the Committee for information. We also point out that in 2002 276 final audit letters were issued without any comments, 90 with some comments, 36 with significant comments and two with such significant comments that the accounts could not be accepted. The company control, introduced by the National Audit Office, has covered 30 whole-time and 33 shared-liability companies, six state enterprises, eight enterprises organised by separate law and 26 student partnerships. The result of the audit for the financial year 2001 was reported to the Stortinget in Document No. 3:2 for 2002-2003. The Committee has also noted with interest the orientation of the administrative audit chapter and would point out that an increase in the level of administrative audit projects is desirable. We are of the opinion that management audit reports must be results-oriented. In other words, the Riksaudition is reviewing the results of service production in a concrete way, both in view of whether they are in line with Storting’s assumptions and whether the results of the operation have been achieved in such a way that users are satisfied. In studies where user satisfaction is central, user surveys can be an appropriate tool to identify the perception of service-dependent users of the quality offered. Low user satisfaction in service production targeting individuals and businesses must involve a change in the performance body. Here I would like to stress that when we talk about user surveys and satisfaction, that is not the result of any decision in an administrative body we are talking about. The fact that one has a case going on in discussion with the Toll Service, the Equation Service or another public body, and one is finally dissatisfied with the result itself, does not mean anything. It's the process we're concerned with, that both the Equation Service and the Customs Service get a quick, good and sound procedure, get answers to their questions, and that you're satisfied with the way the work is done, and with the progress of the work, i.e. not the final result. You must be able to accept that you have a good procedure even if you get a negative answer to your request. So we're talking about satisfaction with the process. There, we believe it makes sense to use user surveys in the context of the National Audit Office’s review of the effectiveness and level of service of some government agencies and institutions. We also ask the National Audit Office to have an increased focus on such projects in the coming period. At the same time, we would stress that administrative audits can also benefit from particularly successful projects in order to provide important input to the management of its further work. So we don't want the audit to be only negative and to point out faults, shortcomings and problems, but it should also be able to point out successful results, so that good experience from a way of working is communicated to other bodies and other institutions. Sometimes we're going to be able to put the spotlight on good institutions and good processes and not become completely unilaterally concerned with the negative.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e434	The annual report of the National Audit Office shows a large and comprehensive activity and, as the largest and most comprehensive control body of the Stortingen, the Riksaudition is decisive for the areas, the ways in which and the conditions under which it is assessed and examined. Societal developments are fast – faster than most of us are able to register – and some of what is happening here are changes in ownership structure, change in organisational relationships, etc. In this respect, it is probably important that the control bodies follow closely – in addition to the fact that the Storting should follow closely for its part – so that no new models can be developed to prevent businesses that should and should be under the control of the Storting from doing so. It's something I think the control bodies should be very alert to the future. It refers to the administrative audit and how to actively enter it in all possible ways. It is important that objectives and results – the objectives set by the Storting, the requirements set out, what is expected – are met. It is also important to make sure that having a goal achievement is a lot more important than being left with, I would almost say, money when the period is over, when things should have been completed. And I think you'll have to look at that a little bit. I very much agree with the rapporteur, Mr Hagen, that when the audit on a matter is being dealt with finds particularly good experience, good results, they should be reported and made visible. And more than that, if I understand the case rapporteur correctly, and in that case I also agree with it: in the case of good projects, projects that are almost defined as very successful, it may be of interest that such a competent body as the Riksrevision goes into and looks at them, so that the experience from these particularly successful projects – why they were so successful – also flows to the administration. Finally, I am very pleased that an overall committee is involved in asking the National Audit Office to assess the possibility of establishing the extent of the maintenance allowance for state property and the amount of the annual increase in the maintenance allowance. This is important information for the Storting, it could give us a real and actual picture of the overall situation. During the spring, the size should deal with the new law and instructions of the National Audit Office. In this context, it will be necessary to review in detail the business framework and to put in place new and certainly more time-consuming regulations and laws. This will be of great importance to the Riksaudition itself, and it will also be of importance to those to be controlled by the Riksaudition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e447	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 818]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e463	Distinctions in the Government are nothing new. An overall overview of the attitude of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs shows that since 1945 there have been practices, fortunately not in many cases, but enough to ask questions about the following: I have understood it so that in earlier times it was to take this one's in the government thought as a sign that one took a distance from what the King meant. That is why these people today have weakened their importance. It is also worth noting that from 1981 to 1997 there was not one dissertation in the government. That it might have been related to who was the head of government then, I shouldn't mean so much about it. However, there is reason to dwell on the constitutional aspects of a state council, or, for that matter, a prime minister, taking this one into consideration. However, the case is sent to the Stortinget, and the Stortinget may then risk taking a decision that is contrary to what this specialist council, or the prime minister, has meant. The same state council, or prime minister, is also executive and is to implement the decision against which it is strongly opposed, so strongly against the fact that it has actually been taken. Then there is reason to raise the question: Can a councillor who has taken her in a case be relieved of liability if it would subsequently prove necessary to put him in charge of the matter? I'm just raising this question. In Sweden, this is completely unimaginable. There it is that if a Council of State, or, for that matter, a Prime Minister, takes this one, he must actually leave the post. Then you're done doing your work in the government. This is a relationship that some people might want to take a closer look at. Who and how have I not taken a decision, but there is every reason to think about it. Another aspect of the State Council Protocols is the regulatory control. This should be subject to more thorough treatment in the future. In particular, it is of interest to have the regulations drawn up by, for example: Universities and similar places – now I just take a few examples – based on the ministry’s powers, are actually in line with Storting’s intentions. Furthermore, the Committee considers it important that the protocols submitted by the departments follow the same schedule. In fact, the Committee has repeatedly asked the Prime Minister's Office to ensure that there is a consistent practice in the transmission, layout and content of the minutes of the Councils. It should be unnecessary to repeat this every year. Now it's done again, and maybe the next time it's an improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e476	I will first join what Berit Brørby said at the end of his speech, that it should be unnecessary to give a clear message to the Prime Minister's office about the desire for uniformity more than once. I'm assuming that's the last time it's necessary for us to establish it. I assume that it will also be communicated to the persons responsible at SMK, so that the necessary instructions will be given to get a consistent approach in relation to the presentation of the regulations. I also agree with Berit Brørby on this with the dissertation, and the need for a review. The Committee notes that the original purpose of this approach was to ensure that state councils avoid any national liability when it was the way in which the National Assembly could be rid of a government. It has changed since parliamentarism, but this access is there. Now it's to the greatest extent, I think, somewhat unclear under what circumstances you can take these, and what the effect of these are. Looking at the list printed as an attachment to the setting, how often there have been dissidents in the governments since World War II, it turns out that during the one-party government of Gerhardsen from 1945-1951 there were 14 dissidents. In Gerhardsen's government from 1955 to 1963, there were 13. In the Borten Coalition Government there were 37 dissidents, and it was in many trifle cases. Otherwise it has been very small. Recently, there has been no dissertation since the government of Brateli in 1973–76, before the coalition governments of Prime Minister Bondevik – first the Central Government, then the Cooperation Government. So I agree with Berit Brørby's wish to start a work to evaluate these questions for the future. I would ask the President-in-Office to discuss it in the Presidency how, who and how to put the search light on it, because here are the various issues that will be clearly relevant. So now we've had these where the Prime Minister was also one of those who dissected, without taking any consequences from it. Let me say it in another way to take a theoretical case: if the majority of the government sends a message to the Storting in the near future, which opens up oil drilling in the Barents Sea and outside the Lofoten, but some take this one's, for example. Minister of Oil and Energy Einar Steensnæs, I would like to say that it would be unacceptable if Steensnæs continued. It wouldn't work. If it is the case that an oil minister advises against oil drilling and oil exploration, and then would then take responsibility for the implementation of something he himself is so against that he takes this one's, it would create such a ugliness of responsibility that in itself it would be an impossibility. If there was an accident, someone could claim that this could not be the responsibility of the oil minister, because he had distinguished himself in the government. Others will be able to claim that perhaps by doing so he had sabotaged some of the implementation work just to be able to have the pleasure of saying, "What did I say?", when he refers to his own – that is, completely unacceptable liability. So at least in my opinion, it must be clear that where there is a Council of State that is to implement a decision on the collapse, it is unacceptable that the Council of State that is responsible for the implementation of the decision on the collapse should be able to have access to it when the government decides the case, without going away. That's my opinion, but here we have no clear rules in our system. It is clear that it is strange when a large minority with the Prime Minister in charge takes hers in the Government in important areas of principle, without drawing any consequences. On the other hand, it is clear that access to this one's must be there, especially for coalition governments. There you know that there will be different parties with strong views on individual matters, and there must be access to the fact that in special cases there will be a kind of majority decision in the government. But there is a need to look at when to take this and what the consequences should be, whether there should be a difference in whether you are responsible for the implementation or whether there is a completely different government council in a completely different department that has no connection. I think it might be interesting that something more was looked at, among other things. in the interests of all members of the government and potential members, so that you know the rules of the game for what you join in.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e489	Formals of these in the State Council protocols are rare. Such dissertations are mentioned in Section 30 of the Constitution. The original idea was that by disputing its opposition in the protocol, a Council of State was free from the legal responsibility of the decisions taken personally by the King. From 1884, the royal decisions were made by a majority of the government. But the point with this one's doesn't change that much. The state council or councils that had protocold a resistance to a decision of the state council were free of legal responsibility for the decision. As the national court has abandoned its use, the political responsibility for decisions comes into focus instead of the judiciary. In most governments since 1945, however, there have been some of these. What reasons the state councils have had to take this might have varied a lot, but in most cases it probably has been a matter of principled political dissatisfaction. Now it's probably only in very few cases that a government council that's unconvinced in political decision-making takes it as far as it can in the State Council Protocol. As I can see, it has happened in matters of a principle nature, as a dissident government council sees it. For example, for the last decade, the Christian People's Party has twice taken it by baptism, not because there was something wrong with the bishops who were appointed, but because the Christian People's Party, purely in principle, thinks that ecclesiastical reconciliations should be decisive. In this respect, as mentioned in the motion for a resolution, on the Patent Directive, the dissenting Councils also spoke of strong fundamental and ethical objections. At that time, there was fundamental opposition to opening up patents on living materials. This is not just a matter of political dissatisfaction between different parties. As a example, I'm going to mention that in Gerhardsen's labor party governments together, 29 of these were taken together. When it comes to these people who have been taken by government councils from other parties in previous governments, I don't know the exact motivation behind them. There have been several dissidents in EU cases. There have been dissertations of various kinds, and it may have been talking about things with local character. In 1946, four councillors took her against the proposition to create Norwegian Jernverk, which must say to have been a big and heavy case. Since the 1970s, these have been rarer. I shall not speculate too much in the reasons for this, but an explanation may be that modern mass media has made the unsemultant internally in a government express itself in ways other than the formal one in the protocol. The threshold for taking this one in the Council of States is today high, and it should be. The use of this one's should, as I see it, be confined to matters in which a council of states has great fundamental or ethical objections, as we have seen it practiced in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e504	I have noticed the wish expressed by the Committee on Better and More Uniform Dissemination from the Prime Minister's Office, and will pass it on. As for the desire for a wider review of this institute, it does, to suggest only, have a certain connection with Storting's work in the previous period with any constitutional reform. The comparison with Sweden does not stop at the point where those who know have written their constitution at a number of later times, and it is probably a fact in this area as in so many areas that the Foundation of the Basic Law has been given a slightly different reason as the years have passed, as well as with this Institute. There's a joint control and constitution committee that says they've noticed that these people after time have gotten a different and weakened meaning than originally assumed. The Committee further states that these are today reduced to an expression of internal disagreement in various governments. This government believes that the use of the latter in the Council of State should in principle be reserved for very important matters. The Government is of the opinion that the decision to include the EU Patent Directive in the EEA Agreement is an example of such a case. So I belonged to the majority of the Government in this case and was not among the distinguishing. But it is still my view that the matter has the very important principal averaging. The government, according to the statistics available, handles between 1,300 and 1,600 cases per year in the Council of State. It may hardly be claimed that the Government in one particular case has used the right to log a disagreement. The issue of the inclusion of the EU Patent Directive in the EEA Agreement is the only case under this government where some of the Government’s members have chosen to take it into the State Council. In comparison, during the reign of Away for a period of five and a half years, hers was taken in 37 cases. Under the three governments that were led by Einar Gerhardsen, this was taken into account in a total of 22 cases. In view of the frequency of its use under previous governments, I cannot see that this government's use of it in cases of incorporating the EU Patent Directive into the EEA Agreement should have contributed to weakening the importance of the Basic Law's provision on this one.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e513	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 818]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e529	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 10 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group, and five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e540	The Committee sees it as a crucial societal task to ensure the safety and security of each individual citizen. An open society, based on democratic values, should, in our opinion, have the ability and the ability to respond to those who do not follow the rules of society. Rapid response to offences has both individual and general preventive effects. In order to create and maintain a society where citizens feel secure, I would like to stress the importance of focus and action on prevention. Prevention and security of individuals are best ensured through good family relationships, friendships and a secure growth environment. Last year, in the debate on justice, ‘municipal economy’ was a word that went on. But I will allow myself to claim that parental care failure is not only corrected through public budgets. On the other hand, if one succeeds in public prevention, good cross-border administrative cooperation and cooperation with non-governmental organisations at local level are essential. Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum has announced an offensive against child and youth crime. Working together with six other departments will ensure cross-disciplinary cooperation. This is important. Unfortunately, we see that the number of young people under the age of 17 is increasing in the statistics on targeting. This is of great concern, and a unanimous committee has just highlighted the importance of targeted action against children and young people who have started to commit crime. This year, Stortinget adopted a system of concern for parents at the police station. The Committee is also concerned that children and young people who are charged with crime face a cash response and receive a follow-up to prevent them from resorting to new crime. The reconciliation queue's too long. Reconciliation queues are unfortunate for several reasons. First of all, it means that one confuses the balance between police, court and criminal justice. Secondly, it is unfortunate in the interests of the convicted person. Furthermore, it's unfortunate for society, because some convicted people spend time between judgment and acquittal in committing new, criminal offences. In this respect, it is essential that the time between criminal action and prosecution be taken until a conviction is available is short. For the right, it is important to focus on the content of the ransom, while not neglecting the basis for the detention itself. The idea of zone is punishment and should also be perceived by society. Atonement is not custody or rest days until new crime is committed. The ransom must improve the condemned to a new and crime-free life. This is where the content of the solution comes in. The content of the remuneration will always require an adjustment to the convicted person. Therefore, we also support the increased use of § 12 zoning for drug users and the psychotherapy programme for violent people. The police in Norway are doing a good job. The police are still making changes in the context of police reform, and it is now Phase 2 that will be implemented. The Committee awaits the evaluation of the police reform to be carried out in 2005. Many are impatient to see results, including me, but we must let the reform work before we can pass a judgment as to whether it has resulted in what was intentional. Whatever reform or none; local police work and local initiative among police and public officials must not be overlooked. In periods when there's a change from above, it's good to see that someone can think clearly and independently. In the Committee's view, it must never be possible to allow local innovations in the police and officers' seats. Local initiatives must be valued. Furthermore, local police in areas with large seasonal variations in population must be equipped to cope with this. It is not necessary to travel further than to my own old area, Hallingdal, where one sees that during the winter season there is enormous inflow, but nothing much more police effort. This is important to look at, and it is important to be able to meet that challenge. The local loner is the spearhead in ensuring individual safety, prevention among children and young people, and repairing whose accidents or crimes have taken place. Another important actor in the justice sector is the courts. The Court of Justice has now functioned since 1 November 2002. It was established by the Stortinget to be the central administration of the courts in Norway. The court administration has a new and more relaxed role, and I would like to stress that there is a very good dialogue between the Stortinget and the Court administration. The court administration has responded to the challenges the Committee has presented through good and comprehensive reports. The budget proposal from the Government of the Ministry of Justice has a nominal growth of 6.9 pst. in relation to the 2003 budget. The budget for justice is now slightly above NOK 13 billion. The government has committed itself to the 2004 budget, especially in the area of criminal justice. An overall committee supports the government’s priority of criminal justice in the 2004 budget. The government's emphasis is on having a balanced distribution of resources and moving rapidly across the criminal chain, which is something that an overall committee also subscribes to. The allocation of criminal services is proposed to cover the full-year impact of previously planned and implemented measures on a total of 129 prison sites and new capacity-enhancing measures in 2004 at 116 places. These 116 new places are to be allocated to 25 new places in Tromsø prison, 23 new places in Oslo prison, 8 new places in Kongswinger prison and 60 new places distributed among module prisons in Bergen, Skien, Kongsvinger and Trondheim. Furthermore, the Government proposes a moderate use of forward release. In total, this makes a solid contribution to bringing down the reconciliation queue. Many will claim that this is not enough, and it is not, but it is a step on the right path. The Minister of Justice shall be commended for drying to think creatively and constructively in relation to modular prisons. Modular prisons, in my opinion, do not have to be a permanent solution, but when we see how good the modules are building, that this can be quickly built and synergized in relation to existing prison buildings, there is a solution that employees and prisoners can absolutely live with. The general operating budget of the courts is continued at approximately the same level as in 2003 and the draft budget of the police will allow the overall level of activity in the department to be maintained at approximately the same level as in 2003. The funding for asylum and foreign policy police has been proposed to be increased, while the Government has taken action which is expected to provide better and more cost-effective resource use in the future. Additional funds have also been provided to cover additional expenditure in 2004 to implement adopted modernisation reforms in the justice sector. After the financial committee had finished its work, it was clear that the negotiating partners were the Workers' Party and the government parties. The agreement we have now concluded implies that the Workers' Party gives subsidiary support to the Government's 2004 draft government budget, with some changes also to the Justice budget. First, there was a change in the financial committee of 10 million. extra to the courts, while proposing a net cut of 25 million. kr for the justice sector. The agreement within the Judicial Committee means that the Government Parties and the Workers' Party have redeployed 11 million. kr within the framework. These 11 million are allocated to criminal services, mainly to operations, including 1 million. kr to Alternative to Violence, and further the agreement implies that Fretex Elevator will be strengthened by its allocation of NOK 600 000, and that the Barm Centre of Hamar will receive NOK 400000 for its good work on after-sales protection. Of a budget of DKr 13 billion, not 11 million. So much for kr. But here are important symbols and signals. In this agreement, the Government Parties and the Workers' Party have clearly stated that the Criminal Service is given a pledge in addition to the promise made by the Government to the Criminal Service in the next year's budget. It becomes visible, for example: by sending 3 million to prison in Tromsø, which means that the module building to be removed in May 2004 is being continued. This involves 15 additional prisons, which will be a major factor in the difficult situation of care in Northern Norway. The settlement partners also point to the need for more permanent settlements, to which the entire committee subscribes. In the case of modular prisons, the settlement partners have said that we want to convert from 15 to 30 of the 60 places to permanent places at Bergen Prison. So, through the negotiations, we made a deal that allows us to create more permanent spaces than the original government proposal. I'm glad of this. At the same time, an overall committee underlines the need for further permanent capacity extensions in criminal justice. The majority has previously taken decisions to build a new prison in Halden. The Committee would stress the priority of the construction of this prison and would therefore prioritise this measure in the 2005 budget. The Committee has also noted that the Government will continue the assessment of Hvalsmoen clay as a possible prison. There is a great shortage of settlements in the East, and that is something that we need to work actively on. As far as the police are concerned, there is a major challenge that I have addressed, and that is phase 2 of the police reform. There must now be peace around the bilgeman situation. Together with the Workers' Party, government parties are dedicated to focusing on having a police force close to where people live. In common notes, the Workers' Party and the Government Parties have entered in order to maintain the name ‘lensman’, also in the places of employment which no longer become a separate holding. This means that, as the public and local authorities know it, the function of a gentleman is preserved. It is positive that an overall committee has joined these comments. The justice sector is facing major challenges. The balance in the criminal justice chain remains a challenge. The government spent next year's budget on criminal matters in particular. When we then know that the police have had a significant increase in recent years, it must be said that the balance is taken into account. But there are still many challenges and unsolved tasks. We are facing an important process of purchasing new rescue helicopters and deploying a new emergency network in Norway. The most important thing, though, is that most people feel secure in everyday life and that they have confidence in the police, the courts, and criminal justice. The Committee refers to the main objectives and targets of the justice sector drawn up in St.prp. No 1, and join these.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e582	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e585	The Labour Party is engaged in a comprehensive policy, including in the justice sector. To get to this, point number. 1 always to prevent. That's why I'm very pleased with the majority comment on page 9 of the vote, which does not include the Advance Party. It says: ‘The majority will point out that maintaining a restrictive alcohol policy is a central tool in the fight against crime. Prevention is very important and research shows that general action aimed at the whole population can have a significant impact. The majority are known to be well-documented that the most effective means of alcohol policy are those that reduce availability and increase price, i.e. general measures taken early on at the level of society. The majority also suggests that the police are a consultation body on local inquisitions, and believe that the police should make greater use of the possibility of commenting on any local perpetrators of delinquency at the time of donation.’ I have the following questions for the representative of Greece: Can he share some thoughts with us about how he intends to implement this in those municipalities that have Right-Rapporteurs and Right-Administration?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e595	With regard to the note to which Anne Helen Rui refers, it is the same note that stood in the last year’s position and is based on a agreed solution in relation to the Government’s action plan against drugs. With regard to the question of how the individual right-wing municipality will follow up on this, I believe that the individual right-wing municipality follows up this at least as well as the municipalities governed by other parties. I think it is important that we have a wide range of prevention activities, that we focus on youth action, but that, of course, there is also a policy that makes it easy to get the hang of it, but easy to lose it. It is a challenge and a policy that our rapporteurs are following and that I think is going very well. I can only mention that I myself have been sitting on the city council of the Drammen. We had a very liberal alcohol policy in relation to getting the grant, but it was very tough when it came to losing the grant. That should still be the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e604	It's been an interesting budget settlement this time. It must challenge someone each, probably. At least it has asked me some questions that I intend to get the representative of Greece to assist me in resolving them. A government led by a heavy Right has called for criminal atrocities for repeat crime and for other types of crime. So you give a signal that crime is to be punished harshly, resolutely and toughly. Then it becomes a paradox for me when the right here contributes to a system where you increase the possibility of previous parole, that you put in an extra penalty discount. Then my question becomes to the representative of Greece: Who does he think is most satisfied with this scheme? Are there right-wing voters or the criminals in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e611	It is good that the representative Ellingsen has brought with him the main points of Right's criminal policy, namely resolute response and rapid follow-up. There is also a background for the government to see the need to propose this measure. We've got a paycheck that's way too long. I'm not going to go into this short line on what's the reason there's a lack of capacity in criminal matters, but I don't think it alone can be attributed to this government. This government does what it can to bring down the cows and one of the measures proposed is to push for parole. I don't think there's any good action, I have to say. It's a temporary measure waiting for us to get the rescue cows down, for us to get more permanent detention places, and for us to get even better flow in the criminal justice chain. The best thing is quick reaction, and to do that, we need to make use of this system. But I don't think it's anything to go further on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e618	I have a question about sick leave in criminal custody. Five out of six criminal care regions have higher sick leave than the national average in the public sector. The operating budgets next year are actually being reduced, despite what the Government claims. Capacity utilisation is approaching in many places between 95 and 100 pst. On top of this, further duplication is required, and modular prisons are being built that are not compensated for by increased means of operation, at least not to a sufficient extent. On top of this, there is also a tougher clientele. Then I think it's incomprehensible that this government chooses not to add to the school budgets, which would have made the inmates have something to do while they're sitting there. I wonder if the Right is really not concerned that the sick leave goes up, and if you are not interested in taking the consequences of this and trying to increase the operating budget, so that it is possible for the employees to do their job.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e625	Here was a lot of sauce together in a big pot. Firstly, it is wrong that there is no accompanying means of operation for the modular prisons. Of course it does. This is clearly part of the Government's proposal. In addition, the government parties and the Workers' Party have used the millions we have managed to scrape together in the conciliation, to strengthen the operation of the criminal justice system. It shows that we want to strengthen just that No Marte Thorkildsen demand. On the issue of whether the Government is not concerned about sick leave — yes, it is the Government. Of course, the government is. In all sectors of society, we are concerned about the development of sick leave. There is a completely different and much larger debate that we should not go into here, but I believe that what is now being done in criminal matters must be seen as positive. It is also important that the staff of the criminal justice system now see that there is something the government is paying for in this budget, to strengthen both the operation and the capacity of the criminal justice system. The fact that prisons are full is a problem, but it is better than that dangerous criminals go loose.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e634	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e638	We lose the fight against crime if we do it exclusively as an exercise in more police and more severe punishments. The current imbalance in the criminal justice chain is a good example of this. Criminal policy is primarily the area of policy where we need to be able to have two thoughts in our head at once. The Minister of Justice clearly had a point when, in the evening post of Sunday concerning the offensive to be launched against childhood and juvenile delinquency, he stated the following: ‘Justice authorities are unable to reverse these developments on their own. Our actions are insufficient in the fight against childhood and youth crime.’ It is a commendable initiative and the Minister of Justice comes along. The reason why we in Norway have a relatively low level of crime is, in the view of the Labour Party, the ability to prevent and create social security networks and have a clear but constructive response when things go wrong first. I will be allowed to give the debate today three time frames, three challenges, to all of us: Today, while we are debating here, a huge shopping press is being created. We're told we're going to do more. You're talking about borrowing rates up to 35 pst. This year's Christmas will be a record of material gossip, says experts and leaders. Somebody can't share in this. Differences are increasing. At the same time, we know that the winning crime is a major part of crime, and less than 20 pst. the winning crimes are detected. At the same time, it is reported that 6 000 our neighbours will be bringing their cowards to justice this year, estimates the Main Financial Industry Organisation. The organisation has estimated that almost 12,500 people will be covered by the legal aid scheme included in the house insurance this year, compared with 11,500 two years ago. So about half of this applies to afterbograngers. Challenge No. 1: Do we create a society where massive demand for material goods also contributes to increased profitability? Secondly, today, while we are debating here, a loud howl is created about where the alcohol is in Norway. The business interests are free from the need for lower charges and increased availability. Over 70 pst. of the Norwegian violence we know is happening in alcohol intoxication. If drugs get cheaper, we get more violence. Are we prepared to pay that price? Young people who commit criminal acts are incredibly much more addicted now than just ten years ago. Investigations, inter alia: ‘Young people in Norway’, by NOVA, shows that among the young people who have committed criminal acts, there are 31 pst. used hash regularly. More than 50 pst. have frequent alcohol use, a much more frequent use of alcohol than we have seen in the past. There is reason to believe that the hidden domestic violence is largely immersed in alcohol use. Thus, a nearly collective justice policy has happily established that the importance of alcohol policy is important for the development of crime. Do we have to point out that it is pointless to drop heavily on prevention, while prisons in Norway are being filled and giving Norway a record population of prisoners? Thirdly, I have received a letter from an inmate in a Norwegian prison. He writes, among other things:\t\t You can change ‘understaffing leads to dissatisfaction and irritation among prisoners and, in turn, concerns the department which is perceived as an additional burden for the employees and prisoners’.» He also points out that understaffing affects the possibility of drug treatment and recreational services, weakens the contact control system and leads to more isolation. Now we're going to say that the most important thing we do to reduce crime is not how long they're going to be inside, but what's actually going on in there? I hereby challenge all participants in this debate: what do we do with these three challenges? The Labour Party has made considerable efforts in its alternative budget to reduce crime. The development of criminal behaviour is complex and is due to the interoperability of many factors at individual and societal level. The emphasis of the Labour Party on school, health and work in its alternative budget is therefore entirely anti-crime prevention. A society with small differences between people has less crime, and good social conditions are important to prevent a criminal career. Cut the school leisure system, cut the cultural budget and down the public school priorities are building up central crime prevention measures. Cuts in the income of sick and unemployed, sharp increases in proportion to excess, weak local economy and the care sector exacerbate the situation of those with the least. The government's proposals for government budgets in several of these areas would lead to greater differences among people and a weakening of the social network in society. This, in turn, can give rise to crime. The Labour Party has, in its budgetary agreement with the Government, changed the draft budget in a social democratic direction. The budget agreement will cost NOK 1.5 billion more to get people to work. An extra NOK 2 billion is transferred in fresh money to municipalities, which contribute to better well-being and safer social conditions for municipalities. A number of the offers made by the additional millions to the municipalities in the conciliation process are important prevention of crime. It is therefore worth noting that the Progress Party is the party that chooses to cut the subsidies to the municipalities in its alternative budget. In the justice sector, it is important to ensure a balance in the criminal justice chain, while ensuring rapid and correct responses to criminal behaviour. I fully agree with the chairman of the committee. Over the last year, housing queues have grown significantly and have created a major problem in the fight against crime. The police and the courts have increased the appropriations to get away from matters. Crime prevention has not been adequately lifted. The starvation that is actually taking place in the case of criminal custody results in settlement cows, lack of custody facilities and lack of provision for the rehabilitation of prisoners. To remedy this, the Workers' Party has invested 80 million in its alternative budget. extra to the criminal service to provide more shelters and so remove the pay queue more quickly. In addition, the working party wishes to use more than 20 million. extra for operation, so that the unworthy conditions of criminal law can be improved. Because of the situation in the criminal justice system, we just see that the police are being charged a lot of extra costs due to the transport of custody prisoners. There have been media redundancies recently showing that the police have been charged with seven-digit amounts to transport custody prisoners around the country. This is an example of how imbalances in the criminal justice chain actually affect all parties. The queue is dramatic because it reduces the rehabilitation effect of punishment. It also seems weakening in the confidence of the judiciary that convictions go outside and wait for their punishment. Furthermore, waiting time can directly lead to criminal acts. The Workers' Party believes that in 2004 we should start the construction of Halden Prison and build up in Bergen Fengsel as well as family apartments at Bredtveit. It is also made up of funds in our alternative budget for the design of inner salt prisons. That's where we need to be 'tired'. The current situation in criminal services is such that the pressure, with a high level of protection and low resources for operation, is so great that the intentions of the Penal Code are difficult to fulfil. There is a need for a better economy and not least for new ideas. The Labour Party is therefore responding to alternative settlement reactions and not least to a better response and treatment situation for the many with drug problems in Norwegian prisons. I am surprised that the government parties are particularly afraid of turning criminal sentences into social sanctions, among other things. In order to facilitate the settlement queue, but also in order to provide a better constructive offer, all the time available to convert unconditional imprisonment into nothing, i.e. early release. The Labour Party is also concerned about the situation in the courts. The number of criminal cases pending treatment and convictions in the courts is now over 4000. This year the number of civil cases waiting for them is over 7 000. Grown! In addition, fewer and fewer cases are being dealt with within the objectives of case resolution. 40 pst. by civil cases were dealt with within the six-month period of proceedings in 2002 against 46 p.m. in 2000. When it came to the court cases, it was 36 p.m. by those who were treated within the three-month period of proceedings in 2002, compared with 55 pst. in 1999. The court administration has indicated that they need approx. Eighty million. kr in the coming years, in order to liquidate the balances and come up to date. The working party has therefore set aside 20 million in its alternative budget. extra for the operation of the courts in 2004. I am pleased that the budgetary agreement now reached has at least given some growth to the courts. The Workers' Party has noticed that the reduction in the percentage of disclosure is the greatest in terms of financial crime. It's about billions of dollars. It's an emancipation from the community. The number of reviews in this area is a bad measure of the extent of this type of crime, we know, because the numbers of darkness are very large. Of reported offences, tax and VAT-related offences constitute one third of economic crime. In other words, it is a form of crime that affects us all. I have to admit that I wanted to focus on economic crime as strongly as on other crimes, from those who are fighting crime no. 1 in the public debate. The Labour Party sees it as important to strengthen its efforts to combat economic crime and will also underline its positive impact by actually giving more money to the community. That is why the Workers' Party in its alternative budget wants to strengthen Ecocrim's work by 6 million. kr. In the negotiations within the framework adopted, the Labour Party and the Government Parties, to which the Chairman of the Committee was attached, have agreed, inter alia, on the following points: 11 million. extra to the criminal justice system. One million. kr is set aside for Alternatives to Violence, in addition to the grant they already receive. It's our hope that Alternatives to Violence can maintain their business in the same way as today and also create a base for expansion, as stated in the remark. Six million. kr is a general grant for the operation of criminal services, where the priority is the violence and sensitisation programme. And finally, as the rapporteur was also involved, 3 million were granted. In order to maintain the operation of the existing prison module at Tromsø prison and thus to secure additional prison sites. The grants to the Fretex Elevator and the Barm-Center at Hamar are also, as was said in the previous speaker's speeches, important in crowns and ears to those concerned. It also has important signal effects on how we think criminal policy should be implemented. Voluntary initiatives are important and non-governmental organisations are important in this area. It is also important to have a different kind of thinking than the often one-track thinking we have in relation to criminal acts in this debate. We have also changed the budgetary position in the temporaryity of criminal services towards firm solutions by applying for two of the proposed modules as permanent prisons in Bergen. In the view of the Labour Party, the clarification and comment now written on police availability, especially in the districts, are also important. The role and importance of the peoples is underlined. It is established that the term ‘lensman’ is maintained and that the functions of the lensman are continued. For the Workers' Party, it is important to be signalled on the outside that the criminal procedural functions of the soldier and the authority and authority he has in the community should continue. In our opinion, local communities need more authority, not less authority. In this way, the workers could be an important local engine for crime prevention, not least ensuring that the place of employment is active, and that it could actually be strengthened in the future. This is also the background to the re-emphasizing that the restructuring and debate that is now taking place around the police should not lead to job losses. This is important to ensure a police force close to us, and it will also be important to prevent crime. Stable police resources that know their local environment are important, and they are important driving forces to strengthen the fight against crime locally. I believe that there is reason to commend the government parties for their willingness to contribute to consensus within the Committee's framework, both for verbal comments and appropriations. The Labour Party is pleased that in the conciliation we have had a positive impact on moving the budget in a social democratic direction, thus ensuring better prevention of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e708	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e711	The representative Storberget has thrown some balls into the air since we were here last year. I'm very excited about which of the balls it is that lands, and not least about how they land. Unfortunately, the Labour Party has become a playoff party in the justice debate, and it is difficult to find out what they think. One example is the question of open settlement, where the representative Storberget has been very positive that as much as possible must enter into open settlement. So in a radio debate, he says that he's very concerned that so many people now have the opportunity to open up, and that most people are worried that so many people are giving this opportunity. Storberget said he would take hold of this as soon as possible, and then I wonder why the Workers' Party has not mentioned it at all in its comments. Is there disagreement about what is meant by open reconciliation, and in the case of – how will the Workers' Party follow up on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e718	I must admit that on the question of open settlement, I am not sure whether the budgetary remarks are the right place to attribute our concerns to. But I actually share the same concern expressed by the committee's chairman, Trond Helleland, to the press in the same round and in the same matter. I share the same concern that was expressed by political leadership in the Ministry of Justice in the matter under consideration, and I share the same concern that I perceive from many of those who expressed themselves in that matter, and to the extent that representatives of other organisations also expressed themselves. If it's the case that people who've had death sentences up to 21 years are released and are on open ground before you've served the sentence halfway, I think to a large extent that's cause for concern. I see this to be contrary to the rules we have, both regulations and criminal enforcement laws. I thought it was obvious to the Right too, that they actually practiced the kind of legislation according to law and order.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e723	As a member of the Judicial Committee, it is sometimes felt that all members of the Judicial Committee have a relatively high media profile, as justice policy is often very topical and situation-driven. Then most of us are in such a situation that we say yes when the ball is played out. That means that we often discuss current issues loudly. In this way I join the previous representative, the representative of Hofstad, who spoke with the representative of Storberget. But I have to ask the representative of Storberget: Rema-Reitan in his time introduced a term that was called 'cuttism' that went on cutting and making things fairer. The Workers' Party has now been involved and contributed in two budgetary settlements. In the revision, we got a cut in terms of the police and officers' seat, and we now have a proposal that leads to a new cut. The question is then quite simply: is the representative of Storberget happy to appear as a general cuttism affecting the justice sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e730	I have to say that I believe that both Rema and Rimi would have very bad sales if they were to put on as modest cuts as what was done in the current judicial budget. If you think about budget cuts in relation to the Oslo police district, a budget that is probably hundreds of millions. kr, then cut it by 4 million. kr to the administration. I think it's going to be a bad deal for Rema and Rimi if you put on such a modest cut. The cuts are much smaller than those carried out by the Advance Party, for example. in the case of accommodation, entirely without land, entirely without calculation and entirely without taking into account the fact that the same item has a side of income. That's what's the serious cuts, and it's the cuts that would in the long run create clean bankruptcy states if the other political parties were to align themselves to the same line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e737	SV shares, to the greatest extent, the representative of Storberget’s description of criminal care as an area in crisis. I find it strange that the same representative has chosen to accept a budget for a continued crisis. The representative of Storberget points out that the budget has been shifted in a social democratic direction. Then I have to say it was a very modest step in the social democratic direction the Labour Party has managed to achieve in these negotiations. The Storberget also referred to a letter that had been sent from an inmate, who pointed out that there are now very tight conditions in the criminal service. Then I also think it is very strange that the Workers' Party has accepted modular prisons and duplication without mucking either this year or last year, and that they have accepted what is actually going to be cut into the operating budgets next year. How does the representative of Storberget feel that we should be able to work with the prisoners properly in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e746	I have a challenge for the representative Thorkildsen: lift your eyes! The budgetary agreement that the Workers' Party has concluded with the government parties actually moves a total of NOK 5 billion at least. It's a step in a social-democratic direction. I'm not going to go into it any more. I also tried to say in my post that getting more people to work, and that municipalities are getting better able to operate everything from leisure clubs to social networking, is important in terms of crime prevention. That had to be what the representative Øystein Djupedal thought about when, during these negotiations, he clearly signaled that SV was ready to make a settlement with the Government. There had to be just this kind of movement of funds. But I'm not going to at least hide that we're very concerned about the criminal code, and would wish we had put more money into that sector. So politically honest I think we should be, and I think it must be one of the main challenges for everyone in the years to come, that we are able to lift this sector. There we share the same concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e753	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e756	A budgetary debate is constantly interesting given that it does not least make the priorities of the various political parties and constellations visible. It draws a picture of a political landscape that will at least last six months until revised, where adjustments may be made, but mainly for the coming year. That means that all the political parties have to go on their own and look at what is served as a whole in the justice sector, which we are debating today. Then we are talking about a comprehensive justice policy and a comprehensive policy. It is true that each of us, regardless of the political party, believes that the justice policy we stand for is, in fact, our contribution to the whole policy. If not, we could not have done our lesson. This, of course, is also about the seventh and, last but not least, political priorities that are being pursued. I record, even though the representative Storberget has hurt to be a part of it, that there is actually a cut in the justice sector as a whole as a result of a settlement between the government parties and the Workers' Party. One thing should be certain: it would never have happened in an agreement with the Advance Party. The progress party could not, at my discretion, have accepted a settlement where there was a cut in this sector. To that, the sector is too important. There's a difference in substance compared to what's resulting this time. The previous two budgets clearly show that there has been a significantly greater investment with us than it has been this time. It is a paradox that, as such, the Committee continues to deal with new issues that impose requirements on the organisations and the tools that are involved in doing the job in the justice sector. It'll be difficult if the Storting doesn't follow up with funds. It is unreasonable to place the list so high on demands, when you are not willing to cover the costs at the same time. Then you get an anomaly, and in the worst case you end up with the famous and negative expression 'politicist contempt'. I don't think it's the case that the justice sector already has too much. Some would argue that the municipal economy is salutative. That's possible. In relation to some tasks, it may well be. But I want to take a great deal of distance from thinking that even if a stronger local economy is $1.2 billion or $3 billion, that's the whole solution to reduce crime. That, I think, is a too narrow approach. Organized crime is a challenge for all of us. It is a relationship that creates and expands the image of crime, and not least it hits human dignity hard. I believe, on behalf of the Progress Party, that the counterclaims must be that we must have a punishment and a criminal regime that appears to be a punishment. We need to have a clearer attitude from society as a whole to distance ourselves from all kinds of organized crime, and we need to stand together, because this is a global and not just a national challenge. Economic crime has also been pointed out by others. There is also clearly a responsibility. At the same time, I think we should be aware that in some major cases with claims of financial crime, people are more or less convicted by the media along the way. We need to be aware that we have a responsibility to ensure that we have legal certainty for these people as well. It doesn't help if you're released after a year of investigation. Then you're judged by society. One may have lost one's industry and thus is a loser independent of what was actually the verdict in the trial. We must be absolutely careful there. As far as the police are concerned, I think a lot of them will be disappointed at the deal that exists here. They'd probably wanted a reinforcement this year too, which is not going to be real. I think they experience it so that it is quite far from their perception of everyday life to the political claimed everyday life. This will therefore lead to the continued focus of the justice sector, and to the fact that many who sit in this room, and who may be looking at this now, becoming active participants in a further societal debate on the cause and context of crime. I think the pressure is going to be even clearer as a result of this conciliation. Nevertheless, I am not going to be more difficult than to boast of the efforts made in relation to the cows and the actions they have done there. I think that's good, and I think that's positive. Clearly, whatever the political stance, the reconciliation queue is a problem and a challenge for all of us. It's not least a challenge for the judge, because at least some of them probably want to settle and move on in their lives. At the same time, it's also a great burden for whoever has been a victim of crime, to meet a perpetrator out there who should have been strictly seated. Therefore, we should invest in the development of bonding capacity, on custodian cells, a permanent increase in volume, and not least transport costs are a heavy factor. As I said, for the Progress Party could not have been a settlement with the framework proposed here, because we perceive that this is actually a bonus for the criminals, and we do not want to contribute to that. Another challenge that I perceived as having been addressed by the Minister, in relation to a more comprehensive effort to combat juvenile crime, for which I am also, of course, in favour, is that there is a continuing need to strengthen cooperation between the institutions involved. I agree with what the Minister said, namely that one cannot solve this individually, this must be resolved jointly. I also think you have to go further and perhaps look at forms of cooperation and clarify the responsibility even more. Maybe you should have cleaned up the responsibility structure. It may not be so good that the wrong department intervenes in the territory of another department, at least it requires a very clear form of cooperation and responsibility within such a system. If not, you better clean it up, at my discretion. So at least we believe that we should be able to look at the possibilities of renting properties abroad, preferably in the perpetrator's home country where possible. When it comes to private prison operations, we think it's just a matter of time before it's going to happen here too. Even though all parties, except ours, are struggling with beaks and claws, we believe that it will in the long run push forward in this country as well. We believe that, for example: The rubble, which we have suggested, would be a suitable place to try out something like this. Of course, we are clearly opposed to the proposal on previous parole. We think that's a bonus, but it's with respect to notifying a bonus to the wrong person. We could imagine, as a commitment to increased criminal care, that a prison officer training was provided in North Norway, in the context of the possible expansion of a new prison in Inner Salten, and not least in connection with the Department of Police College in Bodø, one might be able to draw synergies from one another. We also look forward to the plan for decentralised education for prison officers in Kongsvinger and that it will be presented in the revised budget for 2004. So little about the proposals that the Progress Party has made concrete in this matter. We have, of course, promoted earlier and re-examined proposals to introduce tax exemptions on a call-out vehicle and a police service vehicle. For us, it's a paradox that the state gives and the state takes on a zero-sum game, and I understand that you're worried that if you introduce a tax exemption, you'll get a corresponding cut in the justice sector. I think that's incredibly defensive. I thought knowingly that it was this assembly that decided whether or not to do so, and therefore I do not buy the argument that this would be the consequence. So this thing with a service dog. I perceive that there are considerable differences in the framework conditions between public officials in different levels of expenditure coverage, the remuneration they receive to assist through the use of service dogs. Of course, we also want to increase the number of non-lethal weapons. Now the pepper spray is in use – I think we can say with success – and so we believe that now we get to move on to the scale and see if there are any other non-lethal weapons we can use. We have proposed and will propose today the use of electroshock weapons. We believe that any measure used before a move to weapons with sharp weapons is a plus. All such measures should be tested prior to the use of sharp weapons — for their own safety reasons, for the perpetrator to be apprehended, and also for those who may be spectators of the incident. Therefore, we believe that there is an obligation to try out and implement measures at the lowest possible level in terms of effort. It is also the case that the government parties together with us have made proposals in the past and have requested the submission of a pilot project on the transport of prisoners in response to tenders. We had hoped that we would have gone further in the process, but we expect the Minister of Justice to follow this closely, since this is a big decision behind it. Once again, we see that the government is shifting responsibility on ordinary people. You increase the fee on passports for children, and we don't have any special sense of that. Otherwise, the Progress Party and SV have several proposals together, and so does the Progress Party alone. I've been through most of them, and I'm addressing those suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e795	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has drawn up the suggestions he himself made well for. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e800	I will not enter the arms debate. I don't have the competence to do that, and I hope I don't get it either, to be completely honest. There is now talk of cuts, as if the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government's parties involved a large impact on the fight against crime. Then I have to ask the representative Ellingen to be more specific. What kind of cut is it that affects the fight against Norwegian crime? Is it cut in relation to the estimate of free legal aid or free handling, where an estimate has been adjusted? Is it cut off in relation to a civil guardian in relation to the means of operation there? Or is it cut in relation to emergency networks? Can Ellingen be a little more specific about what kind of cut that affects the fight against crime so seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e807	I thank you so much for the challenge. It's a fact, I guess, if the representative Storberget goes in and looks back a little bit, for example. on the cut that he himself was with and contributed to the revision, that there is no fix here in any way. In addition, he has a point to make cuts. He has shown himself to more people, and I think that the representative Storberget, who is one of those who, together with the people who are signed at times, is most focused on media and sells a message with a high profile, must not least take over the relationship between what people have out there and what we are actually doing and what we are saying. Here at least I believe that there is a great difference between the line Storberget is on, and what he is able to do when he is going to negotiate. I have also not discovered that he has described the agreement as very rose - red.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e812	The Progress Party writes in its attitude that they want an experimental system of non-lethal ectroscopal weapons in Norway, and indicates that it has been used with great success by the US police, among others. in Israel against suicide bombers. Norway police have not requested the introduction of such weapons. In the newspaper today, an American producer of these weapons says: ‘Everything can be used for torture, but our equipment will be a little easier’. At the same time, Amnesty has today launched a campaign against terrorist weapons, where the electroscopic weapons are at the top of the list. My question to the representative Ellingsen will be: Will the Progress Party really – without the police themselves asking for it, and contrary to Amnesty – introduce torture weapons as an electroscopic weapon in the Norwegian police?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e824	Let me start with the conclusion. I'm recording that the representative from the Right thinks it's better to shoot people with sharp weapons than to use non-lethal weapons. Then I'd rather draw a reasoning from that. I know, among other things. that at a defence fair recently held at Lillestrøm, a non-lethal weapon like an electroscopic gun was demonstrated and tested. It was voluntary and more people did it, and after the feedback I received, it worked very well. As for the pepper spray, I have the impression – after, for example. having tried it – that it is extremely effective, and after the feedback I have received, it has led to the fact that both the police officers who use it and those who are to be apprehended have overall reduced the level of damage due to the situation being managed in a completely different way. So my challenge goes back to the representative: try the pepper spray, and we can still discuss non-lethal weapons for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e833	The President has some doubts as to whether the initiation of the reply is at home in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e836	I want to address the question of having private prisons in Norway. Firstly, I wonder if the representative Ellingen does not see it suspicious to allow private exercise of power over prisoners who are initially in a particularly vulnerable situation. I also wonder whether the Progress Party has brought with it the developments that have taken place in the United States, where a cut in operating costs has been achieved in order to maximise profits, for the private must, after all, make money. I wonder if he has come to know that he has actually received listed prisons in the United States, such as the United States. have allowed labour in prisons that have competed with other industries. I wonder if you're going to accept cuts in the Progress Party's private prisons, or if the small tax party is going to accept extra transfers from the state, thereby spending taxpayers' money to a greater extent than today on prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e845	I thank you so much for the challenge presented by the representative of Thorkildsen. If you take the Norwegian way of dealing with things, I don't see the issues to the same extent as the representative Thorkildsen does. If you were to do this in Norway, which we think you should do, it should of course be subject to a public authorisation, a public regulation, a public definition of the framework conditions for it. It's a matter of course. It won't be that we want to adopt an American system and put it into action here. Of course, it has to be dealt with in principle in this Chamber, and of course it has to be drawn up both guidelines and regulations afterwards. But it's always been so that private people can be involved and contribute to solving societal problems, and that's still the way it will be. And we're going to have a positive approach to that. Because it's probably a fact that we have a child protection in private, we have foster parents, where I guess most are private people doing a job on behalf of the public, and I'm sure they also set limits where it's needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e854	The cord shift is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e857	This is the third judicial budget I have to deal with, and that is the second consecutive budget that is characterised as ‘a rise in criminal justice’, or something similar. Both times SV disagreed with this description and, in our view, there is reason to highlight several points that point in the opposite direction to a ‘lift’ and that are worrying in a prevention and rehabilitation perspective. First of all, there is too little money being put into operation. We are told from several teams about savings that will be made until next year, because of the lack of funds to operate newly created sites, additional needs as a result of duplications and lack of funds for the operation of temporary sites, or so-called modular cells. This is not acceptable, and SV believes that it both leads to poorer rehabilitation opportunities, greater pressure on employees, higher sick leave and possibly even worse safety. In addition, as far as duplication practices are concerned, I would like to remind you of the alleged assault that took place in Bergen Prison earlier this year, where one of the inmates must have committed sexual assault on another inmate. The two were placed on the same cell, and I think it's scary that such relationships haven't put any bigger mark on the rest of the committee. Of course, I am aware that this is a terrible example of what can happen if the focus on the housing queues becomes overwhelming. But I think it's really strange that during the period I've been in the Justice Committee – i.e. two years – there's been little or no debate either about duplication or about the sky-high capacity utilisation that's now in Norwegian prisons. Secondly, while prison education is not granted over our budget, this is equally fully part of the overall picture of criminal care. We were several who at first thought that the missing millions, 26 in the figure, were due to a communication failure between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Education. So you can be wrong. At the budgetary meeting with the Ministry of Justice on 14 November, the Minister of Justice stated correctly that this was a result of the budgetary priorities within the Government. I have to say, I'm shocked that we have a government and not least a Minister of Justice who takes so lightly one of the most important rehabilitation tools we have in criminal custody. I believe that this budgetary priority is both petty, unwise and irresponsible. It's petty because the school represents something else, it's a taste of normal life, a breathing room, and actually also a mastering experience for many prisoners. Most of them have not exactly had the flut of these in the course of their lives, rather on the contrary. It is unwise and irresponsible, because the little mastery experiences, the feeling of being worth something and being able to do something, can mean the difference between continued crime and a new, crime-free existence, because formal papers can open doors that have so far been closed, and because contact with the normal society, which the school represents, can make the difference that prisoners have not been completely put on the sideline of normal life the day they release from prison. Or to put it another way: what does it help with more prison places if we don't have the ability to help prisoners master a life in freedom? Thirdly, we risk several prison libraries going down next year, due to a lack of funding from the Ministry of Culture. We know that prison libraries have a bearing on rehabilitation opportunities. Norwegian prisoners borrow 17 times more books than the normal population, and this despite the fact that they often have to thank for a terrible offer. For me, it is a paradox that both the prison libraries and the school offer are being starved, while the government has set up large and prestigious projects to get more people to read and write. It's exactly in the prisons that we really find a sample of the Norwegian people who have never learned this art, and it's precisely these that really need support and help to learn it, if we want them to be able to survive in society when they're done. Why, in the name of heaven, does the Government choose to cut the resources of those who need it the most? I thought it was the reverse policy of this government: to target the efforts of those who need it the most! It may not be possible to prevent crime in particular by reducing the possibility of convicted offenders to live after acquittal. Or what? I want to spend a little more time with the prisoner population. SV is very pleased that the Minister of Justice has launched a research project to identify the life situation of prisoners in Norwegian prisons. But at the same time, we will remember that the knowledge we acquire – and of which we already have quite a lot – must be taken into account in practical policies. When, for example, knows that 30 pst. by prisoners, ADHD has been diagnosed against 1-2 pst. In the general population, this has to have consequences for what we do for young people in Norway with ADHD. When we know that at least 50 pst., maybe as many as 70 pst., maybe even more, of the inmates have drug problems, it must have the consequence that we spend far more on drug prevention and on § 12 zoning. In this setting, SV suggests that consideration be given to creating a kind of 'Mini-Stiffinner' suitable for prisoners with too short sentences to serve the ordinary 'Stiffinner' in Oslo prison. It is a shame that only the Progress Party supports us in this, because I have really got the impression that such an offer is something many miss in Prisons-Norway. I have met with prisoners who have told me that they have repeatedly applied for the ordinary Stifner, but they have too short judges. They come out of prison, they make new crimes, they get into prison. That's how the round dance continues, instead of getting an offer in spite of short sentences. Many could have escaped to be swinging door prisoners whose actions like this had come into place, and thus many would have been freed from the crime these repeaters are doing over and over again. SV believes that there is a need to get away from the group thinking that characterises a lot of criminal policy, and rather to have a much stronger individual starting point for the tools we choose to use, simply because it works better. There's a lot of good going on in Norwegian criminal care, despite tight frames and narrow hands in many places. Souls have given me the opportunity to see prisoners in Oslo prison performing the «Les Miserables» so it went downhill, and «Othello» – in English! Just two weeks ago. One of the prisoners did not know one word English before the performance, but had learned the language because someone had believed in him. I've seen a little boy throw himself around his legs to his father after a performance where the father – a convicted prisoner – had sung like a god. It was really strong to experience, because the boy may not have had the opportunity to be proud so many times. I've seen ladies at Bredtveit present a revision now on Friday that made the audience stand up and tramp – not because they felt sorry for them, but because they were so good. Here it is urgent to hope, the prison priest Odd-Cato Kristiansen believes that there should be a sign over the entrance to all prisons. Fortunately, there is a lot of hope among prison officers, schoolmen, social consultants and librarians. Maybe because they've seen that it's useful, maybe because someone ventured to hope and believe in them. When I see what resources are hidden in many of the prisoners sitting behind the walls in Norway, I think there is reason to have hope. But there's also good reason to give framework conditions that allow people to work with, that make it possible to cultivate talents and give some of the society's most outnumbered a belief that they can master another life. Not least, it is time for Norway to put in place after protection, and not just in words, but in real action, with sustainable housing, education and work, a meaningful leisure time and help to establish a social network that they all, most of us need. A life after reconciliation in which the state took a greater responsibility would not least be a handshake to the victims of crime in Norway, simply because there would be less crime and fewer victims. Sometimes I have the impression that care for crime victims and their relatives and survivors can be measured in the number of years the person responsible gets behind the walls. We in SV don't look at it this way. We believe that the question of the ability of society to take responsibility is first and foremost measured by the will and ability of the auxiliaries and the judiciary to act quickly, to cooperate, to provide information, help, advice, guidance and to listen. We believe that there is a need for a separate case of victim and dependant care. We are disappointed that we and the Progress Party seem to be left alone in such a position. Norwegian care for victims and relatives is partly miserable, and I am ashamed when I hear about another human being who has been treated as air – or at worst as a hair in soup – by both auxiliaries and legal devices. I think it's bad that non-governmental organisations get as little support as they get, including those who operate in this field. It's actually a paradox that SV, who likes to raise public responsibility, is adding $25 million. kr. more than this government for voluntary action and for Alternatives to Violence. I am also frustrated by the ant of goodwill that the crisis and incest centers meet when they ask for money to be able to operate predictably and safely. Everyone thinks it is great that they exist, but the few will do anything to ensure proper and predictable operation. SV has proposed 180 million in its alternative budget. I'm going to go to criminal care next year. We've proposed $30 million. kr extra to the courts to get rid of the balances. And we've suggested, as I said, $25 million. more to non-governmental organisations and to the private foundation Alternative to Violence, a foundation that does a great deal of work to combat violence, and in particular violence in close relations. I would like to stress that these priorities are not the result of SV having and spending money on everything, but they come from the fact that we have the ability to prioritise. Then we're also giving priority to increased tax credits, we're adding extra taxes, and we're giving priority to the defense, just to mention something. SV is also involved in the resource situation of the police. We mean per. Today, a scheme in which we put a massive strain on criminal justice and give the courts a pledge, where we give top priority to the local community economy and make a hard effort to combat unemployment, homelessness and poverty in Norway, will give the police a relief that they want to notice. In addition, raising child protection and psychiatry will mean that the police save time and energy. Nevertheless, the police are in many places very tight, and it is necessary to strengthen more police districts. However, SV would stress that an increased use of the ‘problem-oriented police’ approach will make the police much more effective than today, as the focus will shift from reactive to proactive — or preventative — action. In other words, we want to see a police force in future Norway that will analyse the crime scene much more closely, cooperate with other agencies and deploy the resources where it gathers the most. That's good. In addition, the system of family violence coordinators is in many places — unfortunately not all — an example of how it pays to think differently, both human and economic. It's capable of much of Norwegian police, fortunately. SV shall be a support player for innovation in that department also in the future. I'll deal with the suggestions that we have in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e900	The representative, Ms. Marte Thorkildsen, has drawn up the proposals that she herself made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e906	SV is concerned about the use of duplication, that two prisoners who zone short sentences, should divide the cell. Dublering contributes, inter alia: to speed up the execution of criminal convictions and to speed up the implementation of the sanction – two good principles of legal certainty. With the concern SV shows, it is strange that SV is not as concerned about the elderly and sick who live in the last time of their life in forced municipal cohabitation around Norwegian nursing homes. SV has and has had rapporteurs and political responsibility in several municipalities. Why have not municipalities such as Namsos, Berlevåg, Rana and Tysfjord ceased to use double rooms? In Tysfjord, where SV had the rapporteur in the previous period, there are still 30 double rooms – as many double rooms in one municipality as double rooms in Norwegian prisons. Why does SV not have similar touching concern for the sick and the old as they have for the prisoners? Or is it that the older ones are a hair in soup?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e913	I can easily play that ball back to the representative Carsten Dybevig. In addition, it is my pleasure to do so, as it is this government that is responsible for the fact that the municipalities have been hungry for a long, long time, and there is not enough money on the health side. In the case of duplication, which is what we are responsible for as representatives of the Judicial Committee, I would like to point out a statement that actually stood in the VG yesterday, and that should worry everyone here: ‘Gjøvik prison has stopped all use of double cells because the local authority considers it to be directly hazardous to the health of the prisoners. The Civil Ombudsman now also assesses whether other prisons in Norway have to do the same.’ In addition, I have to say that if it concerns the representative Deepevig as little as he gave the impression in this reply, that an inmate may have been subjected to a sexual assault as a direct consequence of his being locked in a room with another inmate and could not get away from there, yes, I must say that the representative Dybevig should go a few rounds with his sail.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e925	The representative of Thorkildsen pointed out that SV has the ability to prioritise. In this context, it is possible to go a little further into the coverage within the framework chosen by SV. Outside, SV appears to be a strong advocate for free legal assistance and as concerned with the ability of ordinary people to bring their cases up in the judiciary, the possibility of buying a dwelling, etc. But you have chosen to cut further on free legal aid in relation to what the government has done. It should then affect these weak groups and not increase access for people who need it? They want to increase the legal fee, which will make it harder and more expensive for ordinary people to come in and get their cases tried, and make it more expensive to buy homes. Because it is well that although SV does not have this in its alternative state budget, SV believes that the burden is so low that it is unproblematic to cut this within the framework? What is SV really want?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e932	In our alternative state budget, which we refer to in the setting, SV has not cut in any of the two posts to which the representative Kukkestad refers. But if we're going to deal with the framework, we believe that it's absolutely necessary to prioritize the criminal justice system now, by building more places, so that we can get quick reactions, and by increasing the operating budget, so that people can get out on the other side with a greater probability that they won't commit more criminal acts. In the case of the cut in free legal aid, it's actually so-called harry money. And we're doing exactly what the government is doing: basing ourselves on the fact that next year the number of asylum seekers will be lower, and that there will therefore be less need for free justice. So I think this is really a lot of money. But we're doing the exact same thing as the Government. As regards the legal fee, we believe that it should not be increased. But if we're going to stay within the framework, we're willing to increase it for the benefit of criminal justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e941	I record that Inga Marte Thorkildsen did not want to answer the question in my reply if the elderly are a hair in soup around the municipalities where you live in forced municipal cohabitation. Instead, she reproaches me and indirectly blames me for sexual abuse in Norwegian prisons. I think it's quite a powerful diet and will perhaps choose to ignore it. But criminal assaults, whether in prison or outside prison, must, of course, be responded to. Another thing that doesn't hang on to is SV's policy. One thing you say in opposition, like here today, another thing you do when you're in position. When you are in a position in Norwegian municipalities, you do not complete the policy that you are talking about here, namely that every person who lives in a Norwegian nursing home will have the right to live in a single room. In the municipality of Tysfjord, SV has not given the elderly that right. They've had the opportunity. Each municipality in Norway has received NOK 375 000 in the state support scheme to implement such a policy. So SV doesn't do anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e953	No, the elderly are not a hair in soup for SV, and I hope they are not for the representative Dybevig or others in this room. But I have to repeat that much of the reason that we don't have exclusive access for all the elderly in Norway is that the economy is too poor in many places, so that you have to make priorities that are often painful, but that you have to do anyway. In the case of doubling, we have to take inwards that if we with open eyes choose to lock two people in the same room, for example. 6 m2, on which these cells in Bergen are on, you take a risk. So on the weekends, for example, when you like to have one hour of airing a day, you sit on the same cell for 23 hours of the day, and I think that can be risky not only for the inmates, but also for the employees who have complained about the scheme. I record that SV is the only party that has a responsible line in that particular question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e960	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e963	The police, courts and prison services provide primary social services. Safety, tranquillity and order are important premises for good living conditions. It is therefore precisely the task of the EEAS to ensure sufficient resources and appropriate instruments for the justice sector. The Christian People's Party wants closeness between the police and the audience. For us, it is also important to have a good flow in the criminal justice chain. It shall not take years from criminal activity to the commencement of acquittal. In addition, the content of the compensation must be strengthened. The police department is being reorganized. The aim is to release administrative resources for operational action. Feedback, however, may indicate that we have not reached this point. It was therefore important for the government parties to state in the budgetary position of the year that the phase II of police reform should not lead to the closure of police stations or county offices. I'm glad the whole committee could get together about it. We do not want the police to weaken their present presence in the municipalities. It is not least important that police personnel know the youth settings. Such knowledge is often a prerequisite for preventing crime and for responding quickly and correctly where young people are entering drug-induced and criminal settings. The involvement of police officers in the community environment is essential in order to carry out good prevention work against schools, sports clubs and youth clubs. Local knowledge and proximity to the population contribute to increased security for all. This recognition guarantees the Norwegian decentralised police model. For the Christian People's Party, restrictive alcohol policy is a central instrument in the fight against crime. Prevention is very important in this respect, and research shows that general action aimed at the whole population can have a significant impact. In addition, it is well documented that the most effective means of alcohol policy are those that reduce availability and increase price, i.e. general measures taken early at all levels of society. The police are consulting bodies on local inquisitions. It is important that the police make greater use of the opportunity to comment on the criminal consequences of an increase in the number of donations. The length of proceedings in the courts is longer than is desirable. Increased transfers to the courts next year will help, but we have to admit that money alone is not sufficient. The effectiveness of the courts must be improved, but this must not be done at the expense of the legal certainty of the individual accused. In order to ensure greater efficiency, new procedures are now being developed, further develop cooperation in the courts and improve legislation. The Christian People's Party hopes that the Stortinget will be presented with concrete proposals for improved proceedings in the courts. We also believe that time is ripe to review criminal proceedings and assess the possibility of changes with a view to shortening the main proceedings in some criminal cases. We have e.g. see that the main negotiation in cases where there is acknowledgment may last for up to several weeks. You could ask yourself if that's necessary. In the Christian People's Party, we want to turn all the stones to shorten the time from crime to judgment and atonement. The government's draft budget means that the criminal service budget is increased by 8.2 pst. Next year. The budget agreement with the Workers' Party further strengthens the criminal justice budgets by 10 million. kr. Increased efforts in the field of criminal justice have also increased efforts to prevent crime. Achievement capacity will be increased next year. Several permanent new settlement sites are being built and the content of the deposit is being strengthened. The reconciliation queue is long. The purpose of the punishment means that punishment is served in a warm way! This means that it is a short time from judgment to atonement. Today, many people have to wait a long time to get settled through the acquittal of punishment. This produces both poor individual-preventive and general-preventive effects. It is important to build more permanent prison sites. For the Christian People's Party, therefore, the construction of new prison in Halden has the highest priority. The need for more prison sites in the central eastern region is particularly great. We therefore want this to be a priority in the 2005 budget. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it is very gratifying that more prisoners are now being offered a program of violence and sensuality. Alternatives to the existing offer of violence are ensured to continue in 2004, and funds have been put in place to allow other providers of violence prevention to extend their offer. The prison services of the Salvation Army will be fully funded next year, and the Barm Centre of Hamar will have its budgets strengthened. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to ensure a wide range of treatment services in criminal matters. What helps one doesn't need to help the other. Therefore, criminal services must cooperate with a wide range of voluntary and public bodies. New and innovative thinking is needed to develop programme provision in prisons. Competition must be ensured among operators. Competition helps to keep costs down. It is not unimportant for a criminal service that, despite increased budgets, must be said to have a moderate financial framework. I would like to highlight the important work done by the rescue services in saving lives and health in the event of an emergency. The Christian People's Party believes that the field of rescue services is, often, crucial to life and health. It is therefore very important that a person maintains the focus on this service and the qualities it is expected to hold. The Ministry is involved in the acquisition of new rescue helicopters. Work has been started to assess the acquisition process of new helicopters in the Ministry of Justice, and I assume that this work will be completed and reported to Stortinget in good time before the option agreement relating to the NH90 expires. However, it is necessary to point out that the same option agreement does not have to stand in the way of choosing the best option. The Christian People's Party believes that it is imperative to point out the need for a new common relationship for the emergency situation. Today, police, fire services and health services have limited opportunities for communication between departments and between different geographical areas within each establishment. Today's analogue radio connection is not listening-proof. It is easy to intercept communication with reasonable equipment that has now become lawful. It worries us all that the anti-crime work is being complicated, and that privacy is being threatened by this. I would again like to recall possible synergies that interact with both the planning and implementation of a new emergency network in relation to the new safety network on the railway, the so-called GSM-R, where construction is under way. The cost advantage of this is significantly reduced if the realisation of a new emergency network is delayed. We have noticed that the department assesses the realization of a new emergency network when it buys services. This appears to be an appropriate funding model, and the majority asks the Ministry to consider such a solution in depth. The Christian People's Party sees that starting emergency networks in the most populous areas of the country can provide both increased profitability and increased social security. Nevertheless, the Ministry should consider whether a nationwide development should be envisaged in order to cover the total cost. It is necessary to clarify that the governing bodies of the Emergency Network project have decided that the tendering process for new connections should be open and technology neutral. The final choice of technology and supplier will be based on the overall satisfaction of the present and future needs for communication in emergency situations. Compared to private operators building mobile telephone networks, the country has limited opportunities to stimulate coordination. However, the tendering process for the new digital emergency link shall be technology neutral. If, in addition, it is opened for the acquisition to be made as a service purchase, commercial developers may offer connections to the emergency budgets by means of their network. The assumption, of course, is that they can meet the needs of emergency budgets for functionality and coverage, and that there are synergies that make this profitable also for commercial developers. Otherwise, whatever form of deployment, there will be full interaction between the emergency network and all new and existing telecommunications networks.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1009	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1012	I allow myself to quote a comment from the setting: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Right and Christian People’s Party, will stress the importance of the preparation of the personnel recruited well for what it means to work as a prison officer, the release of unsuitable aspirants, and the active and targeted work of recruiting aspirants with a multicultural background.’ Can the representative Holstad explain to us why the Christian People's Party does not want inappropriate aspirations to be hatched, and why do they think that there is no need to recruit multicultural prison officers?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1026	I want to confirm that we are not, of course, against the good intention that the representative Rui here referred to, but technically this remark was put in conjunction with a couple of other sentences, which we could not attend for reasons of the Government. That is to the extent the practical explanation of why we were not there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1031	I guess I don't reveal any state secret when I say that the representative Holstad is part of a draft lion who in the Justice Committee is referred to as the rotor comrades. Then, of course, he has to face a challenge within that theme. In the case of police helicopters, the suspension of the judicial budget states that costs are higher than foreseen. The Committee's comments say that it was a prerequisite that police helicopter operations should not be charged to the ordinary police operating budgets. Does the representative Holstad have any thoughts about how to avoid it? Is he aware, if necessary, that we need to receive feedback from the Storting about the further operation of police helicopters, primarily in relation to operational budget costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1038	Such an important theme is difficult to answer in one minute. It is true that it would have been desirable by more direct means, specifically given by Stortinget. That being said, the tasks of this service are intended to perform a number of other functions, which lie within ordinary budgets, especially within the Oslo Police Department. I know that funds have been put in to combat organised crime and anti-terrorism. I believe that, after an internal assessment in the Oslo Police Department, funds will also be made available for the use of helicopters in just these situations. In this way, there will be an internal assessment for the Oslo police of whether funds will be allocated to the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1045	I just want to establish what the representative Ellings said, namely that the committee jointly writes in the opinion that it was a prerequisite that police helicopter operations should not be charged to the ordinary operating budgets. That's based on SV. My question concerns care for victims and relatives. As I said in my post, it is only the SV and the Progress Party that support the proposal that there should be a separate case next year about care for relatives and victims in Norway, precisely because we have seen these people being terribly poorly cared for, both within the justice system in Norway and within the auxiliary equipment. Then I wonder why not the Christian People's Party and the Government can participate in such a proposal. Is it because you don't see it as an important thing? Or is it because you have some cards in your sleeve that we're not aware of, and that's going to come to next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1052	I agree with Mr Thorkildsen that this is an important issue. However, in an assessment of many themes, in an assessment using funds for all good purposes, it will not always be possible to give priority to specific requests that some representatives and some parties prioritise. That's the way it is. It may well be that on a later occasion we will come back and strengthen this very area as the representative of Thorkildsen here has shown attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1057	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1060	The Centre Party is not represented in the Judicial Committee and has therefore not participated in the preparation of this suspension. Much of what is said in the vote, and which has also been said in the debate here today, on the development of crime and the prevention of crime, is easy to agree with. In my view, it illustrates not least the importance of other sectors for the justice sector, whether it concerns growth policy, distribution and equalisation policy or alcohol and drugs policy. In this context, let me mention that I think it is liberating to hear a representative from the Workers' Party being as clear in relation to the alcohol and drugs policy as the representative Storberget was here earlier today. The comments made by the centre party on the Justice Budget will primarily relate to the changes that are taking place in the police case. It is that the police reform, where the first phase is now complete, should give us a better police force, but not necessarily a cheaper police force. There is something that creeps when it is now noticed that several places in the country have announced redundancies, and that positions are kept on a relatively large scale, sail if the police say they could have solved more cases if they had been in a better economic situation. In 2004, the government provided the police with the same appropriations as in the current year. But it really means that the activity can't be the same as this year. The reality is that the police will actually have to reduce the activity, as the level of costs will be higher next year, compared to this year. That is why the Central Party also proposed 100 million in its alternative budget. kr extra to the police and county council next year, which we believe is required if the police action is to carry out its tasks in the best possible way. At the same time, the Central Party believes that it would have been useful if the Stortinget had now provided a better basis for assessing an overall resource situation in the various police districts. I see that the committee is also commenting on it very much in the same direction. That is why I would also urge the other parties to vote in favour of the proposal that the Central Party has made, in connection with today's debate, to oblige the Government to submit an analysis of the use of resources in the police districts. I think that could be a necessary and good basis for the further assessment of the reform work of the police force. In the context of the implementation of phase 2 of the police reform, an overall committee writes that it must not lead to the closure of posts. It's a very important signal, as the centre party is fully behind it. It is an important signal both to the Council of State and to the management of the police districts. There has been a great deal of unrest in many communities as proposals for a new operational structure have been discussed. The presence of the Police and National Assembly creates security in the communities, and therefore people become alarmed when they see signals that the Länsmann Office may be closed down. The centre party is concerned that the offices of officers must not just become a lock on the expedition, but a county office that is in fact able to achieve the objectives set in the police reform. It is not just a passive presence that must be the yardstick, but an active police and countyman's seat that can be targeted at preventing and actively averting crime. That is why, in the future, the gentleman must also be present as a loner. It is also important, in order to ensure the stability of the offices of fellows, that the term ‘lensman’ is also maintained in those departments which no longer necessarily become a holding. There is another point related to the setting I want to comment on. It might not be the largest point in the setting, but it's important for them. It is difficult to understand why almost the entire committee will go in to automate one of our three coastal radio stations along the coast of the North Sea and up to Bodø. It's quite far from Florø to Bodø, it's far above City and up to Folda. There is an oil business outside the Haltenbank that is going to grow in the years to come. It is a large sea area where there is to be an oil business that is quite risky and vulnerable. The proximity and locality that is built-in is important and should be able to continue to be present. It is therefore incomprehensible that a party, such as the Workers’ Party or representatives from the relevant part of the country, has opted for the automation of this coastal radio station. The centre party will oppose such automation and will, on that basis, support proposal No. 21 in the setting. With this I will be allowed to record the proposal of the Centre Party, which is distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1079	The representative Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestion she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1084	For the Workers' Party, it has been very important in relation to the discussions that have been in the Committee, and the comments, to start work on strengthening the police in the districts, and I am glad that the Centre Party has discovered what has happened. I would like to ask the representative, Mr Arnstad, whether it is such a fact that the Central Party fully supports the comments made by the Members of this House, that all posts should be maintained, and that the so-called 'Länsmann's name should continue, and whether the Central Party supports the need to actually save and improve efficiency in relation to operations and administration in the rural areas as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1089	Let me first say that it's nice to get a line -- it's not always a get when you don't sit on the committee. I think that's nice. The centre party fully supports what is written on page 42 of the nomination, where the Committee notes that the police reform must not lead to the closure of posts and that the individual places of employment, if they no longer become holdings, must be operational and in operation. What concerns us a little bit from the Central Party is a double communication in terms of police reform, which we have to be careful about, where we constantly say that it should lead to less administrative functions, more operational service and a more visible police force, while people out there feel the opposite. So we're about to get into a double communication, which I think we should be careful about. An important test in the future will be how one chooses to develop the role of a bilgeman. A borrower does not necessarily have administrative or budgetary responsibilities, but he should be able to be a borrower and have an active role in the exercise of his own functions, and not a passive disk existence.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1098	I note that the Centre Party has made its own proposal here today concerning an analysis of the use of resources in the police. It is true that the entire Committee supports such an analysis of the further fate of the police reform and that the resource situation of the district police should also be assessed. It does not have the Central Party in its proposal. Then I'll be allowed to mention when it comes to the coast radio, that there is now a complete automation because you want to replace an old-fashioned system, a system that has expired, and renew the technology and modernise the activities of the coast radio. This is to create better safety at sea for those who travel along our long-range coast. It's very important. The question for the centre party is: does not the centre party wish to exploit the technology that exists to make it safer at sea than it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1106	Indeed, the Committee goes a long way in its comments on the desire to get an overview of the use of resources. But it is strange that there is no mention of any proposal on the part of the committee, and that is what we want to help the committee with, so that one can also define the good intentions of an actual proposal and a call for the Government. Because I am concerned that the debate on police reform in the future must not only become a debate on structure and organisation – there must also be a discussion about the overall use of resources and its overview. So to the coast radio: I am concerned that we should have the best possible surveillance associated with the coast, and the coast radio is important in this regard. But if it is as the representative Dybevig says, that this is an unconditional improvement, it is strange that it does not get better at those who use that service, and at those who do, because they are deeply concerned about what is going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1118	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1121	As Minister of Justice, I have a special responsibility to ensure the security and security of the individual. Work on preventing and combating crime, ensuring the proper functioning of justice and reducing the vulnerability of our society is central to this. The government is concerned with reducing the time between notification, appeal, judgment and acquittal. There must be a rapid response to offences and the response must be adapted to the individual convictions with a view to ensuring that he/she does not commit any further offences later. In this respect, it is very important that the police, the prosecution authority, the courts and the criminal justice system function well as a whole chain of criminal proceedings. The government prioritised the draft budget for 2003 for criminal law and the courts. Capacity-enhancing measures in criminal care have been prioritised in the 2004 State budget, as part of efforts to reduce the pay queue and increase the capacity for care. In addition, the higher prosecution authority has been strengthened somewhat. It has been suggested that the courts and the police should be able to continue their high level of activity at the same level as in 2003. I'm recording that the court's budget is increased by 10 million. DKr and criminal care by 10 million. kr during the budgetary procedure in Stortinget. With this, the size has chosen to give further priority to the criminal justice chain. In addition to the criminal action chain, the Government has prioritised action in the areas of social security and preparedness and legal certainty in the 2004 budget proposal. International developments are marked by uncertainty. The government is concerned that the increased tasks of security and emergency measures should not be at the expense of the ordinary crime control and police public service. The allocation of security and preparedness measures has therefore increased in 2004, in particular to the Oslo Police District. The police security service has also been provided with more resources in recent years. In addition, more funds were committed in 2004 to the helicopter service on Svalbard and to the establishment of a 24-hour presence at the rescue helicopter base on the Sola. The information I now have suggests that for practical reasons it will hardly be possible to implement the arrangement on the Sun before a few months out in 2004. This appropriation is also increased to cover expenditure on the co-location of the new Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness in Tønsberg at the turn of the year 2004/2005. The Ministry of Justice has assumed budgetary responsibilities for the State rescue helicopter service from 2004 and funds for the purchase of services from the Air Force squadron 330 have been transferred from the Ministry of Defence’s budget. The government is continuing to work on the acquisition of new rescue helicopters and will return to the establishment of a 24-hour bystander on the remaining bases and new civil rescue helicopter base in Florø in connection with the 2005 draft budget. The poverty line for unconditional prison sentences has increased in recent years, but has now begun to decline. The queue was 2,057 judges at the turn of the year 2001/2002, and the queue was 2,633 judges per year. 30 September 2003. The Bondevik II government has given priority to action in recent years to expand prison capacity. Combined with a very high level of capacity utilisation and significant efforts by the staff in the department, this now appears to produce results. There is reason to stress that the situation remains far from satisfactory. The government meets this challenge with a number of actions also in 2004. The draft budget includes funds to cover the full-year impact of previously planned and implemented measures on a total of 129 prison sites. In addition, new measures are being implemented in 2004, corresponding to an estimated 208 prison sites. Of these, the extension of housing capacity is 116 places. In addition, as an exceptional measure, the Government proposes that five-day release for convictions of less than 90 days and 10 days for judgments of more than 90 days may be applied in 2004, provided that the sentences comply with the requirements for release after two-thirds of the time. This measure corresponds to an estimated 92 places, and I am pleased that the majority of the Stortinges have agreed to this. The capacity-enhancing measures in 2004 are divided into 25 places in Tromsø prison, 23 places in Oslo prison, eight double places in Kongswinger prison and 60 new temporary places divided into four so-called modular prisons. Module prisons have been proposed for existing prisons in Trondheim, Skien, Kongsvinger and Bergen. I note that the majority of the Stortinge – provided that it is technically feasible and that it can do so within the existing budgetary framework – will realise 30 of the 60 proposed module prison sites by building permanent sites at Bergen Fengsel, and that the department can place the remaining two module prisons where it is considered most appropriate. It's positive that the Storting shows such an commitment, and of course I'll follow up on this. In addition, the Stortinget has done so in criminal custody, allowing the further use of the 14 module prisons at Tromsø Prison in 2004. Overall, the Bondevik II government in 2002-2004 has proposed and implemented measures corresponding to an estimated 396 places. I think it is worth stressing that there is still a need for measures that provide a significant and lasting increase in prison capacity in the years to come. The government will make an overall assessment of Halden prison, new custody sites in Bergen, use of the Hvalsmoen defence facility and increase of prison capacity in the North Region, including the Inner Salt, in the context of the 2005 State budget. I note that the Stortinget strongly emphasises that the construction of Halden Prison is a first priority, and also notes the Committee's comments on Inner Salt. The government is concerned that the conditions of the sentence during the detention are organised in a way that helps each individual to live a crime-free life after the sentence has been executed. In a situation of significant capacity expansion and high capacity utilisation, it is a challenge for the agency to ensure at the same time good content in the implementation of penalties. Strengthening the content of the criminalimplementation carried out in 2003 continued in 2004. In addition, in 2004, the Government provided additional funds for the content of the criminal execution, in particular in relation to those convicted of violence. The accumulation of funds in the budget to strengthen the content of the compensation leads to a further commitment to measures aimed at violently convicted men by increasing the range of violent and sensual programmes. The high aspirant peak at the KRUS is being continued, and there are funds for actions that ensure a sufficient number of skilled personnel in the context of the 2004 capacity extensions. The government is committed to further developing and strengthening cooperation between various public agencies and non-governmental organisations in order to ensure a good structure both during reconciliation and after release. The government also wants to further develop and stimulate the increased use of community sanctions or conflict resolution in cases where it is considered the most appropriate form of reaction, especially in relation to young offenders. At the same time, such alternative forms of reaction may help to reduce the pressure on the bonding capacity. The government will focus on the prevention of crime through an active policy for children and young people in particular. Living and inclusive local settings where children and young people have positive experiences and challenges will help reduce crime. It's about seeing, and it's about caring. This requires broad efforts in several fields and close cooperation between police, school, parents, the young person himself and other auxiliaries. The Government is therefore working to ensure broad and committed cooperation in relation to children and young people and to prepare two pilot projects aimed at preventing both initial sonarisation and preventing new crime. Violence threatens human life, health and dignity. It is important for me and the Government to promote measures to combat violence – especially in close relationships – that make violent women and children less vulnerable. Measures to combat trafficking in women and children, forced marriages and sexual mutilation are important in this work. It is also important to increase knowledge in this area and to put the spotlight on violent men. The measures of the Government’s Action Plan ‘Violence against Women’ will be completed by the end of 2003 and 20 actions have been jointly implemented during the action plan period. We are now committed to continuing to work on violence in close relations, and during the spring of 2004 we will promote a new action plan against violence in family relations for the period 2004-2006. There is still a significant modernisation of the justice sector. In particular, I would like to stress that the work on stage I of the police reform has been carried out and the benefits have been realised. Among other things, the number of police districts is reduced from 54 to 27, and 414 annual works are released for more operational and public work. In Phase II, the holding structure of the police and officers’ seats will be reviewed with a view to a more efficient district organisation. I have with pleasure recorded that a joint committee supports maintaining our decentralised loner structure. Furthermore, it is wise to maintain the lenner’s designation attached to each lenner’s office. It helps to maintain the best in Norwegian police tradition — proximity to the public. Phases I and II of the reform will be completed as a project early in 2004 and an evaluation of the reform will be available during the first half of 2005. The special body structure is also considered in the ministry, with particular emphasis on ensuring a strong and coordinated response to organised crime. A new police body, the Foreign Office of the Police, is hereby established from 1 January 2004. The aim is to strengthen, streamline and coordinate police action in the field of asylum and foreign policy. Work on the merger of the Courts of First Instance from 92 to 66 will continue in 2004 and will be completed on 1 January 2008. Similarly, the project is continued by transferring the object information task from the rights of property to the Staten Kartverk. The Councils of Conflict shall be converted into a State body from 1 January 2004. This will provide a basis for better management and increased use of this alternative form of reaction, especially in relation to children and young people. I would like to remind you one day that, at the same time, the justice sector is very staff-intensive and that the most important resource available to the sector is in the hands of people. The effort, service, intelligence and creativity of employees and managers in their day-to-day tasks in meeting people is ultimately crucial for Norway to remain a safe country to live in. Let me add: after being and seeing almost all Norwegian prisons, I am very impressed with the spirit of society you meet in that context. You meet people who care about their jobs, and who care about those they're going to work to bring back to society, and that society's placed there. I find that measures are put in place and worked in such a way here, which can never be included in a regulation. I've said it before: all the consultants who run around with powerpoints can never fit the box «Enthusiasm». It's a box that would blow up any powerpoint consultant's capacity. But you'll find this within the offices that I'm the head of, and I think it's important and right to express this from the Parliament's pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1176	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1179	It is worrying that today more than 2,500 people are in queue. It weakens the trust in the system, and not least the effect of it. That's why the Workers' Party in its alternative budget plan believes that now is the time to put the spade in the ground, both in relation to Halden and Bergen, and to go beyond what has been achieved in relation to the Inner Salt. I want to ask the Minister of Justice, based on the situation we now have – and which has been the same in many ways, at least in the last two years: what kind of forecast does the department work after? When, according to the department's opinion, will you get rid of the reconciliation queue? My second question is: can the Minister of Justice see that the desire and strong request of the Judicial Committee for starting up in Halden in 2005 is really possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1184	First, I would like to praise the Workers' Party for having been able to enter into a budgetary settlement with the government parties. That's how within the agreement with the government parties, you had room to give $10 million. to the courts. I thought that was important. Re-priorities have also been made in the budget of the Committee within the framework, in order to strengthen criminal justice. I think that's also true. But it is also true that neither the representative Storberget nor I have any other money at my disposal than those given priority when it comes to the piece. For my part, I am responsible for the budget we have submitted and 396 places of refuge. That means the same thing as Trondheim, Ullersmo and Ilseng prisons during the period I have been Minister of Justice, and that also expresses the ambitions. As far as concrete further proposals are concerned, they will be dealt with in the annual budgets. It is also true that the settlement queue was 2,057 – it is now 2,633. I'm glad that the representative Storberget ends up calling this a 70 pst. increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1191	Fortunately, we have a Minister of Justice with a high profile in the field of justice, which makes his ambitions clear, and which, to the best of all, carries out the ambitions he has. It's positive. There are often new approaches, new challenges, both to the Storting as the overall body, and to the agencies directly managed by the Minister of Justice. It means that signals are constantly being sent from here through the Ministry of Justice to the courts, with wishes and ambitions to do things. Then my question is: is the Minister of Justice satisfied that the justice sector is used as a balancing item for the treatment of the State budget and for the reconciliation with the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1198	I do not understand that the justice sector is used as a balancing item, when you look at the totality of our budget. I agree with the representatives who have spoken in the past, that strengthening efforts in Norwegian municipalities actually means something for what is crucial, also in the justice sector. It means something to children and young people, it means something to those who, for example, are facing violence, to those who are dependent on municipal services. That you've managed to do that priority, I think it's positive. With regard to the Justice Budget, I have previously described the police budget as being tight. I'm standing by. But we're going to keep to the level we've had in 2003, into 2004. I'm glad the court budget is strengthened. Then it's less tight. That means you can do a better job. I also welcome the strengthening of the criminal justice budget by the conciliation process. Then you can do something more, including: in relation to men who do not master their minds and who may be helped, for example. through the property. So the totality of the budget is what I stand for. In addition, it is a budget that gives the country a predictable budgetary situation, and it helps to secure jobs, to keep interest rates down and to weaken the dollar rate, and we must be happy for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1207	We've had some laps on the double here before. But I want to deal with it directly with the Minister of Justice, too, because I was worried when I read in the VG yesterday that Gjøvik prison has stopped all use of double cells because the local authority believes it is directly health-threatening for the inmates. Thus, the Civil Ombudsman now also assesses whether the other prisons in Norway must end with this practice. I have asked the Ministry of Justice several times whether it is certain that the practice of duplication is sound, both health and safety. And the answers I have received have been: Yes, it is just. But how can they be sure that it is sound when we can read at the same time in the newspapers that a municipal doctor has intervened directly, and the State Health Authority in a letter, from 2001, I think it was, recommended that we stop the duplication practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1214	The answer given to this earlier is the same as today. An individual health, environmental and safety assessment shall always be carried out. The point is that there is a very modest degree of duplication in Norwegian prisons. I think the number right now is between 40 and 50 places in total. According to such a health, environmental and safety assessment carried out in Gjøvik prison, the two places that were duplicated there have been decommissioned. I always assume that that assessment is taking place in every case. It is also right, as other representatives have said here in the past, that duplication should be too short periods and in relation to short sentences, and that is the way we have to facilitate this. The active substance has been used in Norway in the past. The message is used and it is used according to strict requirements. That's how we have to try to control. All considerations to be weighed by duplicating are taken. We work that way, and we're going to do it: an individual assessment and a very limited amount. If we had done this in general and to a very large extent, I would understand the criticism. Nevertheless, we have to endure being examined in every case. That is why it is called health, environmental and safety assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1222	I want to repeat large parts of my line instead, because I felt that the Minister of Justice did not answer. There is no «dump», this is something I seriously wonder about: what is the ministry's ambition and the department's ability to predict in relation to issues about queues, when you actually think you can get to port? I am aware that quite a number of new places have been set up, as the Minister of Justice said, and that is commendable. But is it possible, on the basis of the rate we have in relation to the crime scene and a number of other factors, to get into port, and when will it be, in relation to the plans of the department? So I asked another question: is there any reality, as the Minister of Justice sees it, and as the Justice Committee points out, that in fact, in the Halden in 2005 you can have your feet set in motion?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1229	As far as prison in Halden is concerned, it is entirely dependent on what is presented in the 2005 budget, and it is not a topic that I am addressing now. It will be dealt with when the budget is available. What is the actual situation is that we believe, as indicated in the 2004 budget proposal, that we need a prison in Halden. We believe there is a need for a capacity increase in Bergen. We believe that there is a need for an assessment of both the project related to Inner Salt and other capacity increases in the North region. We believe that we have to look at the Walsmo as a project. If we sum this, we'll quickly get close to the reconciliation queue as it is today, if we convert it into prison day, and then we have to try to solve it within that framework. That is why all of these projects are mentioned, and I think it is very good that the representative Storberget has helped to get a focus on, among other things. the project in North Norway. Now we can focus on, for example: the project in Inner Salt, in addition to the existing institutions in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1234	The duration of proceedings before the courts is important in order to maintain the courts as genuine and credible conflict-resolvers. Some of the things you have asked the court organisation to work after are so-called targets. These figures are in the course of proceedings. Specially problematic is that, we can read, for Borgarting law of the team and Gulating law of the team, which has almost twice as long treatment as these figures. There's not much better in the district courts either. It's not twice the length of treatment, but there's no right that seems to be reaching the targets. The questions are: Does the government have any forecast of when they expect these figures to be reached? Or are the figures there just to make the population believe in the unattainable?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1243	Targets are set there because you have to reach them. I can give a practical example: I asked earlier this fall for a study of the criminal case chain in Oslo. It was delivered to me today early. 32 measures have been put in place to improve progress. It turns out, with Oslo as an example, that the police are not the bottleneck. It'll work. One hundred days in the police, two hundred days in the courts. And then where do we end up, with something that we can actually do with, and that maybe even doesn't cost money? It's a very low use of the confessional discount that exists by using the right of inquiry and the right of appeal. A selection, in which the defenders are present, states that it is important that both the police and the defenders make the accused aware of this. At the same time, attention is paid to, for example: as it is in Oslo, that 25 pst. they are deferred because they are not served. This selection of defenders therefore suggests that defenders also have to take part in the job and make sure to announce, so that a right can be set at the right time. Other excellent measures are also proposed, the IT expert, who is a pioneer project, and I want to follow up on these measures, among others. by allowing this group to continue working for another year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1252	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1255	The Labour Party has entered into budgetary settlements with the Christian People's Party before, but it has been a long time since we have entered into a budgetary settlement with the Right Party. We have now done so, and we believe that we have significantly improved the budget in the areas of labour, local economy, school and health. An improved local economy can be preventative crime. Restless youth leisure clubs, with an adult who cares about them, are an offer that we know is preventive. The fact that municipalities are now also given the opportunity to grant grants to non-governmental organisations, which in turn will provide children and young people with carefree, fun and developing leisure activities is very good. Inclusion of budgetary settlements is a demanding process, and it has not been easy. There have also been no major changes in this budget. But the small changes that have been made are very positive. We all realize that the criminal chain is unbalanced, so the extra ten million to go to the courts is important. The housing queues are too large, and we have received some money both for fixed properties, temporary properties and operations. Even if that's not enough, it's a step in the right direction. It is crime prevention when we have got a little more money for Alternatives to Violence to keep the work that is currently being done in Langesund, Drammen and Oslo, and want to expand this offer to several regions, such as a single Justice Department adopted a year ago and has repeated in this budgetary position. Running mind-and-violence programmes on prisoners who have problems using violence out and at home is absolutely necessary preventive work. In the committee we are now waiting for the government to decide to buy new rescue helicopters. Those we have are old, and it will take time to get new ones in place, so in order to take the rescue situation seriously, this matter has to be decided quickly. It is no secret that the Workers' Party believes that we should go for the option. This will allow us to land on coastguard vessels and the new frigates, and we will be able to have major synergies on the training and maintenance side. And last but not least, it will provide Norwegian business with repurchase contracts that will come into good shape in today's situation, where business is struggling and we have a lot of unemployed people. There will be a majority to shut down the School of Police at Bruvoll in the North Odal tonight. It hurts someone and delights others, as such locating matters like that do. The Ministry of Justice's training and training centre in Stavern will be strengthened, and I am pleased about that. The tenant in Stavern is a good example of a closure not necessarily the final hook on the door for workplaces. The main administration of the UP and the Vestfold Civil Defence Circle will move to the centre of Stavern soon. I believe that both the police, the law enforcement staff and the judges should be able to conduct their course activities. In addition, there is an excellent facility to operate the combination of rescue professionals both on land, to water and in the air. Such combination could bring considerable benefits when accidents are to be tackled and there is a need for cooperation across countries, water and air. Some of us in the committee are also concerned that equality in the justice sector is too bad. There are plans, but now it has to be soon reality and not just fine paper plans. In order to achieve the best possible sector of justice, both women and men need to do so at all levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1268	It's been a raw and brutal development of crime in recent years, and we see a different type of crime than we've done before. Among other things, there is much more organised crime; there are large international networks that control their crime remotely from other countries and that impose heavy costs on Norwegian society. We have seen that there is extensive money laundering from, among others. drug sales. We see that there is a widespread human trafficking of both children and women, and the Government has presented an action plan on this. We see that the world is becoming increasingly terrorized, that terrorism is flourishing around the world. It reaches not only the places it has previously affected, namely the Middle East, it spreads all over the world. The government has, over a long period of time, implemented major reforms aimed at tackling some of the new problems that have arisen. Among other things, some new legal security rights have been introduced. We have also made major reforms in the field of intelligence, in the area of police, and we have done a good deal of co-location. These challenges require innovation. It requires us to think modern, and it requires us to make better use of the resources we have at our disposal. Interestingly, in many of these areas, SV, who has criticised the government north and down here today, has not itself been involved in the desire to reform the public sector. While the other parties have been willing, SV has not been willing. This has led to a public sector sector that has been more inefficient and resource-intensive. So when SV says that it uses far more resources in the justice sector than the other games, it could be heads to heads. But if you compare what you get out of the heads, the parties that now make up the majority here in the hall, actually get more of the money that we invest in the criminal care. A relatively new area in terms of crime is, among other things, corruption. Some Norwegian groups, such as Statoil, have been involved in corruption in foreign countries. Very often, this is a culturally dependent problem. I believe that Norway must be a driver both through the UN and, in particular, through Europol in order to find good solutions. In addition, we have taken a number of other measures. I believe it is completely wrong when the head of Ecokrim said yesterday that there is no political interest in detecting illegal insider dealing. I think he's doing unforgivable vision, as he's actually suspecting or connoisserating parts of the business. Nothing is more wrong than such a statement, and it is regrettable that it comes from the head of Ecocrime. I believe that Ecokrim is quite free to provide recordings and solutions on how to deal with such a problem. One of the areas likely to be a problem area in the future is public corruption. We have seen in Sweden that they have discovered that some suppliers have been favored because they have been willing to reward store managers in Systembolaget. I believe that where there are public monopolies specialising in parts of business, such as municipalities or government bodies, the authorities should be careful to find measures to detect such public corruption. I know that ESA is working to reveal this. It is strange today to hear SV’s representative, who in his freeness claims that SV has a higher budget than the government parties. If the policy of the SV had been implemented, the economic framework would have been rapidly reduced as a result of a tax policy that would stifle Norwegian business. It would be the beginning of a massive relocation of businesses. Tax revenue would in the long term be reduced and the funds for the justice sector reduced. That is why I maintain my claim that SV has less money available in reality, because they will be against a number of savings and efficiency improvements. This year's budget for justice is not a Christmas gift to the criminals, as the representatives of the Progress Party try to claim. It's not a bonus for the criminals. It's actually the biggest effort ever made in Norwegian justice policy. The budget for criminal justice is increased by 8 p.m., it is increased to the police – there have never been more policemen than it is now, about 12 000 – and the overall budget for justice is increased by 7 p.m. So to me, some of the criticism is incomprehensible. We've never had greater reconciliation capacity, and that's because we've been willing to think about new things. We use community sanctions, we build elemental and modular prisons, we use defense facilities, and we get 400 new places in a three-year period. The conclusion is: Many new creative measures met with scepticism among many, but they work well. So I just want to add that it is very good that the government has as its first priority next year's government budget to build prison in Halden.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1289	For its part, the President would say that it might not be right to conclude in cases of corruption until a possible verdict has been reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1292	It is important to have a goal to work after. In the justice sector, governance towards objectives is also important. The Courts of Justice shall, inter alia: processing time as an important quality objective. It is important that the courts remain a dispute settlement body available to all groups of the population within a reasonable period of time. In cases of dispute, the number of cases is six months and in cases of co-judgment the number of cases is three months. It is very unfortunate to see that none of the law-enforcement rights have a processing time in accordance with this measurement figure. The figures show that one does not approach the figures, but, on the contrary, more and more away from them by increasing the number of cases. In particular, the conditions at Borgarting and Gulating are problematic. Here, the length of the procedure is approximately twice as long as the figures were required. We see that even in the District Courts there is a lot left to achieve the measurement numbers. In principle, one should be pleased with all the new funds available to the courts, including the 10 million. kr, which resulted in the budgetary conciliation. Nevertheless, I find it necessary to point out that this is far from enough to take care of the increase in the amount of the case that one sees coming to the courts. The judicial administration has a special position in relation to corruption and government. This was not least pointed out during the treatment of the establishment of the Court’s administration and its opening in Trondheim. We agree that adjustments to guidelines etc. initially fits well in the budget proposal. When the Government now announces a more comprehensive reassessment and modification of the guidelines during 2004, it is appropriate to consider whether there is another appropriate way to present this overall review and any changes to the Storting. After this overall review and evaluation, it will of course be to return to the ordinary budgetary procedure. Another important area in the justice sector is criminal law. Prison capacity is in no way dimensioned in relation to the need. Even with the new prisons being planned, it is uncertain whether that is enough. Another major problem is that inappropriate planning takes a long time until prisons are ready for use. It must be possible to speed up the progress of projects. In the meantime, the solution is not to give a penalty discount. The solution must be to provide more settlement points or, if the majority does not wish to do so, one should at least consider ending the settlement with alternative penalties. Now it's not just the buildings themselves that are important in criminal matters. The content is also important, because an attempt is made to provide help and content where possible. I don't think the content of a prison zone can solve all the problems that failure of other measures has caused over the years. But this does not prevent us from trying to start a process that helps the individual. Among other things, there will be: education and training are important. The Party considers that it is too passive simply to point out that prisoners with a legal right to training must be moved where there is no capacity available. We need a much broader approach than this. Another important element of comprehensive and good criminal care is the sufficient number of prison officers. The majority want to show that the cut of 3.5 million. kr on the entry ‘Criminal care educational centre’ does not really mean cut. The Progress Party sees the need for a commitment to education, and that is why we want an increase in this item, even within the unreasonablely tight framework that the budget agreement gave to the justice sector. In no way can the justice sector be said to be the winner in the budget of the year. We are hoped that our citizens will not feel that the service and legal security will be more impaired next year than what is within the framework of safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1313	The task of the police must be to ensure people's security and security, as well as to combat and prevent crime. In the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties, it has been suggested that the offices of Länsmann will be maintained around the country. The working party has worked for a long time to prevent the reduction of the manoeuvring function. For the Workers' Party, it has been very important in this process that the police are located in the community. The advantage of this is that the establishment maintains and maintains local knowledge. We're getting closer cooperation between police and school, the youth community and the local population. A service and public-oriented police service can be an effective crime fighter. In this work, loners around the country are central security and authority personnel. We assumed when the police reform was adopted that the number of posts would be maintained. The county seat has been on the ground for a long time with regard to the number of posts, and the Labour Party has therefore called for a strengthening of the district police during the last year’s budgetary procedure. We are very pleased that the government parties now have a clear objective that the police should not weaken their presence in the municipalities. It is also agreed that phase 2 of the police reform should not lead to the closure of offices such as the county offices and police stations. We also agree that the term ‘lensman’ is also maintained in those service locations that no longer become a separate holding. This means that, as the public and local authorities know it, the function of a gentleman is preserved. Maintenance of the lenner’s designation may also contribute to ensuring the recruitment of the smaller lenner’s offices. As mentioned at the outset, the task of the police is to ensure people’s security and to combat and prevent crime. It is therefore essential that we have a police force that is close to the population and that is available to those who need police assistance. Statistics and tables on detection risks and processing time provide no proper feedback on how the public sees the police. People's security must be a central scale for the police. It is therefore important to broaden the scope of these measurement criteria, such as audience availability/expression time, employee satisfaction, prevention outcomes and cooperation with other agencies and institutions. One of the challenges facing several representatives in 2004 will be the finalisation of the phase 2 police reform with the transformation into a more operational and public service, the more effective fight against crime and an improvement in the provision of services to the public. The aim of the reform of the public's awareness of greater security, proximity and efficiency in the EEA needs to be achieved. A more efficient use of resources in general, an increased focus on prevention and criminal proceedings that can deliver improved results, are important tools in this work. Finally, one of the objectives of the police reform was to strengthen the operational service in the districts against the gathering of the administrative service with the police chief in the police district. District police are a central tool to achieve the goal of a police force near you. Therefore, it is important that these offices are staffed, so that the audience does not meet a closed door when they seek assistance at the police station or the county office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1334	What is perhaps the most difficult thing about being a justice politician is to find solutions that really produce results, not least how to find these solutions without resorting to over-simple and under-estimated solutions. Security and legal certainty are fundamental prerequisites for the functioning of a welfare society. Ensuring a safe society is very important to us in the Right. The search light must focus on the individual's responsibilities for his own actions and on the conditions in society that affect the development of crime. Society must set clear limits to unacceptable behaviour in the form of correct and rapid reactions. In the fight against crime, causes and instruments are complex and complex. It requires of us politicians that we have the power to see the whole, and not least that we dare to think again in relation to the challenges we face. There is no doubt that we now see a very great pressure on the criminal justice system. Therefore, it has been very right for this government to make a deliberate prioritisation of criminal law, both in order to increase capacity and at the same time to focus on the content of the bail. The content of criminal justice is important in relation to the security of people, but also in the interests of the convicted. Prisoners are going back to society at any other time, and unfortunately, relapse into crime is the likely result for many when they release after sitting behind the walls. Bringing the prisoners back to society after settlement is not an easy task. There we have many major challenges, but one thing we can't get away from: if we're to succeed in avoiding relapses, a good after-care fit for the individual through work, housing and follow-up is essential to make it easier to return to society. The violence in the street is clearly visible, and the attention is high around this. At the same time, it is a fact that most cases of violence and assault take place at home. This is hidden violence and rarely reported, and many cases are being or do not lead to conviction. I am pleased that, in this position, the Committee is now paying so much attention to the victims of violence, and not least to the offers for treatment to those who commit the violence. Security is more than freedom from abuse, it is also freedom from fear. We have a responsibility to ensure help and support for those who are victims of crime and to strengthen the position of victims of violence. The fight against crime cannot be conducted alone within the framework of the justice sector. The foundation for avoiding children and young people developing a criminal career is being added to their growth. When I hear the Socialist Left Party and the Labour Party respond to how we are going to meet the increased child and youth crime, I'm actually a little surprised that it's possible to be so naive, because the answer from them is only more money to the municipalities. If too little money is the answer to child violence, and young people flirt with drugs, yes, then I don’t realize that the problem can be so terrible in the world’s richest country. I don't think the only answer is increased resources for the municipalities. What we believe in in the Right is that prevention work produces the best results through family relationships, through friendship and through a secure growth environment. The right believes that one of the most important tasks for the police is prevention, and that is why I want to highlight the good work done in several municipalities with SLT work. I am also pleased that the Committee is in favour of this being given priority in the police districts at management level, and that in the long term we can get this as one of the target criteria for good police work in the future. I would like to take this opportunity to commend the Minister of Justice for the initiative he has now taken to help those young people who have committed more crimes, and many of them have come a long way in their criminal career. It is very positive that the Minister of Justice will now define and place responsibility for the follow-up of the individual and organise cooperation between the auxiliaries and authorities. This is a very difficult field, but I am pleased that the Minister of Justice has dared to go into it, and dared to take responsibility. This has been waiting for a very long time. The answer to my initial question is not very simple. As justice politicians, we have to take inwards that the crime scene differs significantly from what we've been used to. The new crime scene requires new answers. And in order to respond to these new challenges, all of us who have a role in fighting crime must recognise the changes that have occurred. It requires that we look at new tools and tools to combat the new crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1358	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1361	As a result of a previous decision in Stortinget, Hadeland and Land are moved to Toten District Court, Gjøvik. In my opinion, Hadeland District Court has many enough cases to be maintained as its own court of law, but decisions are taken, and I take note of that. But then my concern is: the move of Hadeland districts to Gjøvik will require more space. I cannot see that it has been mentioned or, for that matter, proposed, and would like the Council of State to comment on this. The second concern I want to challenge the Council of State is the entire labour market situation in the Ringerix region, including Jevnaker. About 500 jobs in Defence are now disappearing, the state's mapping works are being built up, which in itself is only sad, and the creation of state jobs as compensation for them is being neglected. It is therefore a collective Ring Kingdom, Hole and Jevnaker who strongly want the Walsmoen to be able to get a positive after-use. Higher education for prison officers is one option; another option is a housing institution or a combination of these. I am aware of what is in the position, but my challenge is nevertheless going to be to the Council of State: Will he look into the possibility that exists in the region of Ringeriks to meet the needs of society for more higher education places and more places of residence?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1370	First, I just want to say that I hope that we never get into the situation that there are prisons that are supposed to save Norwegian districts. But that's not what I'm going to talk about. The representative, Holstad, made a statement in relation to care for victims and relatives. He talked about that we can't give funds for all good purposes. Just that wording I reacted to, because I perceive victim and dependant care not only as a good purpose, but as a necessity. I attended the National Association of Victims' Conference a week ago, and it was actually quite embarrassing to represent a country – there was a conference with international guests present – that until those degrees take the worst care of the victims as we do. Anne Robberstad has given us some clues in the report that the Ministry of Justice itself ordered, and which I suppose comes as a separate matter this spring. In addition, we lack basic things like 24-hour phones or offices that can help victims of violence. We lack rape reception in many places. I have been a part of trying to fight such a thing in Sandefjord in Westfold, where I come from. It's been a long and tough process, and I hope we can land now to the Weasel. Many victims of violence have no idea what their rights are, and many have to fight to get the rights they actually have, if they first find out they have them. I witnessed a criminal case of domestic violence a couple of years ago, and it seemed to me to be a strange experience. Then I received a letter saying that the main negotiations are from time to time, and if you don't come, the police will come and pick you up. No one called, and no one accepted me when I got there. Victims are in Norwegian context testifying in their own cases, and I don't think they're being treated better in Norwegian courts, and that's what I think is shameful. I have received letters from the survivors who have children who have been killed, who say that they did not know when their case was going to come up, and they often get zero information. I believe that we need to put in place rights and obligations that put victims and relatives in a completely different position in the future. All departments must participate in an overall effort to ensure that victims and relatives receive the care they deserve, and have some rights in relation to, for example: health services, and especially psychologists, where they have to put themselves in the same line as the rest of the population who need such healthcare. And I think like that: when did the Health Minister say the last word "violence"? When did the Minister of Education do that? What does the Minister for Social Affairs know about this problem? I believe that we need a common force to ensure that victims and relatives are not ignored to those degrees in society, as they are now. I hope that the Government intends to make an effort next year, and that the government parties do not vote for our proposal, does not mean that they do not intend to make an effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1385	I want to start with a problem in connection with the criminal services that take me a lot. This is the negative trend in prison libraries. Prison libraries are reported to be empty, depopulation is reported, and shortening of opening hours is reported. This makes it impossible to provide good service to the prisoners. It turns out that the prisoners on average actually read 17 times more than the rest of the population. The Labour Party has taken up the problem inwards and has put in its alternative budget for 2004 – above the cultural budget – 1 million. kr to the prison libraries. Prison libraries are a central means of achieving good rehabilitation. I think we need to see the library services in a larger context in the future. Therefore, the Culture Committee has said that prison libraries also need to be assessed into the seamless library system. We're in a hurry to get this done. So to that matter in the budgetary procedure that I am very concerned about, namely the construction of prisons. The working party has long been concerned about the long queues. Over 2,600 are in line for zone. The Labour Party believes that as early as 2004 one should start the construction of a prison in Halden, the addition of Bergen Fengsel and the construction of family apartments at Bredtveit female prison. The Labour Party also wants to build a prison in the Inner Salt, and has set aside 2 million. kr to project funds in our alternative budget for 2004. We believe that there is a need for project money for prison in the Inner Salt. After many and long meetings between the Workers' Party and the government parties, I am very pleased with the result that is now in the setting. No money is being deposited from Stortinget, but the Ministry is now to facilitate the construction of a prison in Inner Salten. I am pleased that the entire committee also concludes that the northern part of the country has a great need for extended compensation and care capacity. That was the basis for starting the project with the construction of a prison in the Inner Salt. I am proud that the Inner Salt has the offers that are needed to build a prison, for a prison should not be just a place of storage. Although the Progress Party still wants to go to the Red Cross quickly, which they would like to have started as early as 2005 – and on which they have put forward proposals – the Stortinget believes, like the National Subcommittee of the four northernmost states, that a new prison in the north will be in the Inner Salt. The working party will keep the pressure up on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1398	This article is a last attempt to avoid the island's becoming a coastal radio station without the skilled professionals who have helped so many. automating the Ørland Coast Radio Station will be a dramatic and dangerous decision. There will be a defeat for safety at sea if the long and weathery coastline between Florø and Bodø is unmanned radio station. England has as long coastline as Norway and has 20 manned stations. We're going to get to five. The background is, of course, that money should be saved. Some people who know this system well from within believe that costs are getting higher. In any case, the savings of the Ministry are marginal in relation to the potential loss costs. Those who are concerned about this decision are those who know, it's the people on board, and it's those who are going to rescue them in an emergency. There have been several rounds earlier on the same topic, with proposals for downsizing. Each time, the authorities have had to admit that the equipment has not been reliable enough, and this has been postponed. In dramatic situations, local knowledge at coastal radio stations can be crucial. If geographical names are mixed together, life may be lost. When an increased number of channels is to be served by fewer people, the possibility is greater that weak, once only emergency signals are not identified. The island's coastal radio station currently has much more channels than most other stations. There will be a lot more to keep track of for those who may be required to take over this job. The island's coastal radio station has been operating since 1947. The activity along the coastline covered is increasing, including: due to oil activities on the Haltenbank, but also to the fact that several oil transports occur along the Norwegian coast. By rejecting the automation of the Ørland Coast Radio Station, the Stortinge can show respect for life and for the enormous values that this is all about. The size needs to be more concerned with coastal safety than with what can now be achieved. The New Year's Hurricane is one of the horror scenes that are being pulled out. Then things happened that no one thought would happen. The connection was broken all the places along the coast. That hurricane can't be forgotten?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1411	I thought I would say a few words about the Progress Party's attitude to progress in terms of the rescue services, which others have been involved here today. We are increasingly approaching the phase out of the old Sea King and having a review of what type of helicopter will be selected for the new, future rescue service in Norway. On that occasion, I hope that the Minister of Justice will remember the majority comment that was written when we dealt with St.meld on 16 May 2002. No 44 for 2000-2001, such as the establishment of a new helicopter training forum and the reporting back to the Stortinget during 2003. I expect and hope that the Minister of Justice will confirm that this will be done. Of the things you should be looking at, the type of helicopter you should have and that should be approved for the future rescue service. Then the general thing is that you pick the quad that gives the best solution in total. If it were to end up being NH90, EH101 or S92, at least I, on behalf of the Progress Party, assume that we're selecting the most functional and the best machine. Of course, we can discuss the circumstances of that election, but I hope that the Minister of Justice will take the initiative that the Department will follow up on the recordings that have come from the Helicopters Professional Forum. I think it would be strange if you were first told via Stortinget to do such a job, you put down a committee, and then the Stortinge looks away from the advice. At least some of us will respond with wonder and concerns. I also hope that the base in Florø can soon be up and go. It will be an absolute plus and a strength of the safety belt that the Rescue Service is along our coast. I hope, as I said, that it too, in the first half of 2005, can be up and go. Then I must allow myself to give feedback to the representative Rui from the Workers' Party. I record that the Workers' Party has decided on helicopter choices, and she points out here that the NH90 can land on the Coast Guard and on frigates. But Coast Guard leaders have confirmed that all helicopters can do that. There's nothing that only the NH90 can do, so I think it's a bad argument to put in the pen here. Then you talk about buying back is liberating, because it will have ring-fenced effects for Norwegian businesses. Norwegian experiences with repurchases are not only hallelujah, at least not after what I have had experience – perhaps the opposite. I think what we're going to look at is what in total gives the best ringing effects, focusing on the Rescue Service, and then what kind of contribution it will make to the development of competence in areas like helicopter, rescue services. Whether it says NH90, or it says Sikorsky, it's not the most important thing for me, but it's what benefits society in total, we're going to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1428	Politics is so often. Every day, we are surprised at the decisions and promises that we thought were clear and good, but that, when it comes to the piece, gets a completely different result from what was promised and that one has worked for. In Hedmark, we also have cases of this. Today, among other things, The police high school facilities at Bruvoll in North Odal are such an example. There they have struggled for a long time to keep this, and/but the result of an agreement between the Government and the precisely Workers' Party with the decision to abolish makes people wonder what is going on. Through, inter alia: a number of newspaper articles and meetings have been briefed on the new hope for police higher education facilities at Bruvoll. They have become optimistic and have been promised, among others. from the Workers' Party. I, along with others, have worked all the time to ensure that the Police College's facilities at Bruvoll were maintained, and I am pleased that the Progress Party and SV have a proposal on this. For me, it is essential that we get the best possible education, in terms of costs. The areas of practice, housing, transport, availability, etc. are things that should speak for Bruvoll's benefit. Large investments have also been made over time and further escalation plans are available. In addition, users are very satisfied with the training. There are also good shooting paths here. That's how I can frame up a lot of moments that were supposed to speak for further existence for police training at Bruvoll. A lease agreement valid until 2022 – if desired – should also be believed to have a certain importance for the case. It is therefore with great regret that I record that the result of the agreement between the government parties and the Workers' Party is that the police high school's facilities at Bruvoll disappear – just an example of the fact that promises and results do not always match people's expectations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1441	After 11 September 2001, of course, the interest in Norway in security issues as well as the need to prevent terrorist acts in Norway has been something of which the Norwegian people have become more concerned. We live in a very troubled world, and we are looking for repeated incidents in other countries to increase uncertainty and increase the possibility of terrorist attacks. To that end, we have addressed the Ministry of Justice to find out what the budgetary situation is – the number of posts, etc. in our security police — to see to what extent we have increased preparedness and activity to prevent incidents and to be ready for events. We have been informed by the Ministry of Justice that it is not possible to publish the size of our security policy – the budget framework they have, the number of posts, etc. That means that the Norwegian people have no guarantee and no certainty about what's going on with our authorities. What also worries me a little bit is that the Storting is not familiar with what is done by the Government to prepare us, possibly clarify events before they happen. In the parliaments of many other countries, it is a separate committee – someone who ensures that we have a proper preparedness for terrorism, that we have a proper oversight of possible cells, that we have a proper prevention effort to prevent negative events. So in Norway, we don't have a committee like this. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice if he can tell us what the reason is that in Norway we cannot have an open, internal debate on our own security, on what resources we spend, which we can read in the budgets, on whether they rise as the threat of terrorism increases and perhaps goes down as it decreases. It also has something to do with Storting's control authority, which we are today cut off from having any opinions about. I don't think that's acceptable. I have the impression that sometimes you use the secret stamp – not because there are some foreign powers or others that are not supposed to have insight, but simply because the Norwegian people are to be prevented from knowing what the authorities are doing in an area. I think it would make sense if we actually had a much greater degree of openness, if at the times we are now living in, we had control of the government making sure that we have a reassuring priority of the police security service, and that we haven't kept the downsizing -- let's say it like that -- as it's been written in the newspapers after the Wall fell and the cold war subsided. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice what is the reason why our Storing Group and Stortinget cannot get the information we have asked for openly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1452	It is the representative Linda Hofstad who makes me take the floor, first and foremost because her posts testify that there must have been a house past what has been the basic tone and, I was saying, the main lines of most of the speeches by the parties from this pulpit on the issue of combating crime. And at least that's not the way it was made in the post, that the only answer the Workers' Party – SV was also included in the same sling – is to spend more money on fighting crime. That is precisely what we have said, that the most dangerous thing we do in terms of combating crime is one-sided commitment to one strategy, whether it be just more police, stricter penalties, unilateral action plans on drugs or issues of more money for municipalities. The message from the undersigned and others in today's debate has been that one must try to try to have more thoughts in his head at once and focus on all these instruments. That's where it's so important that, among other things. are some parties that contribute to providing an increased space for action for Norwegian municipalities, and which can just prevent many of the cuts we have seen around the municipalities, where children and young people first smoke, cut into very delicate measures, which have a direct connection with the development of child and youth crime. Most of us agree, and starting to cut off from leisure activities for children and young people, for example. in Søndre Nordstrand, on Holmlia, is insane today. But that's what politicians are forced to do. And I was about to say, that's why I'm more proud of the budgetary agreement on the issue of bet on the municipalities and the increased room of action that is actually given, than I think many others should have reason to be. This, in conjunction with both the solstice situation, to do something in relation to getting more prison places, where the Workers' Party has proposed both the start of Halden Prison and Bergen Prison and the design of Inner Salt Prison, and together with the fact that one actually wants to focus on the relationship between drugs, violence and crime, which is totally absent from the party that likes to call itself Crime Fighter No. 1, the Progress Party, is what's the big challenge of criminal policy, just to be able to raise all these issues together. And I think in many ways the debate deserves a different conclusion from what the representative, Mr Hofstad, was about to give it, that some people have only committed themselves unilaterally to this. I've heard something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1459	Some questions have been raised that I will comment on. One went to court. The progress made in the reform of the courts will be explained in each budget. Then the concrete projects will also come up. The administration of the Court of Justice is responsible for this. As far as I remember, the question of courts, raised by the representative Brørby, in the present plan will be quite far out in time, but the question she is travelling will be dealt with in that context. The representative of Ellingsen's question about helicopter acquisition is mentioned in the Treasury's new aging proposition, which was issued last Friday, and which I handed over to the president earlier today, where the essence is that there is a complaint from ESA. The government will await that complaint. We will also seek to extend the grace period for the option that exists. Then, as soon as this is available, you will return to the Storting in an appropriate way about the acquisition strategy. With regard to the question from the representative Hagen, I have said in my main post earlier today that the police security service has also been allocated more resources in recent years. That's actually the way it is. This has been happening from 2001 until now. We haven't made these questions public in the past, and I'm going to evaluate how to make sure to get on with this in a suitable way, but it has, for example, have had a real shortage of questions related to the Defence Intelligence Service, with a very tight budget chapter. Even I have put great emphasis on giving a clean back cover to the police security service. It will certainly be known by a number of debates here in the Chamber. And the service has undergone a proper and important upgrade. You also have a management, under Arnstein Øvercil now, that aims for it to continue. And I'm very busy following up that question in the management dialogue for the service, so I'll be very careful now to say that the service is strengthened, and it's also strengthened as a result of events that happened in 2001. Some of it was found in the so-called terrorist proposal, which the Stortinge has dealt with earlier, last year, in 2002. That's the information I now think it's right to provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1470	I thank the Council of State for answering my question, at least parts of it. I really didn't understand why the budget was kept secret for the police security service. He said it has been a practice that it has not been public, and I am fully aware of that. My question now is why, what's the reason? At least I hope that this is not due to poor conscience towards the Norwegian people, and I do not want the Norwegian people to know how bad things are in this area. That is at least the reason given when, in some other areas of society, some public employees do not want to be allowed to say what they think about the quality and quantity of the provision of services to users. That's the one. I would like – if possible – to know what the cause is, and to be confirmed that at least it is not for the Norwegian people not to know how badly we are faced with our emergency situation and our monitoring of potential terrorist cells associated with others in other countries. Then it's the relation to the Storting. There we have long had the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee of the United Kingdom on defence and foreign policy issues. It's a very large sample, and it's not always that what happens there is as confidential as it might be. I think it would make sense if we now consider whether the Storting should also have a certain role in the assessment and treatment of matters relating to internal security, which is not the responsibility of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. At least I would ask the Minister of Justice to think through the advantages and disadvantages of the Stortinget, for example. Creates a Security Selection of a Storting. This could be a slightly smaller selection that could control and advise the Government in this area, which I am afraid will be an important political area, unfortunately, for many years to come. Then it's important that we have communication, and that it's not like today, that alone is the responsibility of the Government, where no one in the Biggest has any authority, no one in the Biggest has knowledge, no one in the Biggest has anything they should have said. It is not a system that we like in other areas, so I hope that the Minister of Justice and, if necessary, the Government will at least assess whether there should be no more concern about the organisation of the relationship between government and national parliament in terms of internal security in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1478	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Hagen, for raising the question, because there has not been an orderly relationship around this. We've experienced things, for example. getting individual questions from the Control and Constitutional Committee on Single Events mentioned in the media, which I finally had to answer in this way that if we were to respond to this, we would have had to expand a number of things that were not suitable for it, and it took note of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. That question was asked at the same time as we have a functioning EOS selection. We are now in a situation where the various intelligence services work closely together. This concerns the Police Security Service, the Defence Intelligence Service and the National Security Authority. It is difficult to see these services separately, not separated in such a way that they are not subject to different laws, regulations and instructions, but because, as a result of the vulnerability message, they must work closely together. The Secretariat is established and is active. What I can confirm here is that I'm busy with the service. The service was built after the cold war, but it has been strengthened later, because it has been necessary to do so. I've been a supporter of the fact that it's been necessary to do that, and I'm going to make sure that the service has the strength it needs, in every way possible, in terms of both laws, regulations and resources. With regard to the general questions that the representative Hagen raised, I'm going to take these with me to an open assessment, as I said in the previous answer. I'll repeat it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1491	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 818]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1506	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 835]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1523	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 836]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1540	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 836]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1557	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 836]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1575	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 837]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1592	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 837]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1609	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 837]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1626	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 837]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1643	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 837]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1659	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 837]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1667	We then go to voting on case No. 1 to 16 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1676	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Carl I. Hagen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, 2, from Ågot Valle on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e1988	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e2601	The President has understood that the Progress Party wants to vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e2736	In the course of the debate, three proposals were put forward for the framework area 5: proposal No 1, by Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 2 by Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 3, from Inga Marte Thorkildsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party And there are 22 framework-independent proposals: proposal No 1, by Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party, proposals No. 2-6, by Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left, on the proposals No. 7–15, by Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 16-21, by Mr Noma Marte Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left-wing Party, No. 22, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party The proposals are included in the vote, with the exception of proposal No. 22, which is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. Only minority proposals outside the framework area are voted on. Trond Helleland – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e2773	In view of the fact that the Central Party is not represented in the Committee, but has presented a proposal here today, I would recommend that the government parties vote against the proposal of the Central Party, as the vote clearly states that this should be discussed with the use of resources in the police in the context of the 2005 review of the police reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e2778	I want to make the same recommendation to the Labour Party, with the same reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e2783	There is then a vote on proposal No. 22, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget for 2005 requires the Government to provide an analysis of the use of resources in the police districts.’ The Progressive Party and the Socialist Left have warned that they support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e2802	President! I voted wrong. I had to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e2809	Then the votes are addressed to 37 for the proposal and 68 against. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions. 16–21, from the Socialist Left Party. The centre party has made it clear that they will support the proposals No. 16, 17, 20 and 21. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18 and 19 first. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for a total ban on the use of full isolation of custody inmates.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government requests the Government to make proposals to equalise the military and civil protection obligations, so that the term of protection of civil guardians is 12 months’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e2837	The proposals are then put to the vote. 16, 17, 20 and 21, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government requests the transfer of the operational responsibility of the Judicial Sector Training Centre in Stavern to the Ministry of Justice. The Government is asked to return to the revised national budget for 2004 with a plan for the further development of the Centre for the Competence of the Justice Sector in Stavern.’» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that duplication is accompanied by fresh funds, and that this measure is based on voluntary activity.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a plan for where, what type and how many new settlements will be needed from a 10-year perspective, as well as the need for future staffing and for improvements and possible closures of existing prison buildings. The needs of female prisoners must be met in line with the needs of men in such a plan.» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Faroese Coastal Radio Station is not automated.’ The Central Party has announced that they will support these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e2871	Then the President will vote on the proposal No. 12 and 14 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider setting up a prison officer training in North Norway, located in Bodø. In the assessment, the Government should examine whether cooperation between the Bodø Police College and the Bodø College will give positive professional and economic results in such an establishment.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure equal treatment for those who have used a service dog in public establishments.’ The Central Party has announced that they will support these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e2895	There will then be a vote on the proposal No. 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13 and 15, of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to put forward a proposal to ensure better cooperation and a clearer division of responsibilities between the criminal justice area and psychiatry, child protection, and the education sector during 2004’.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the government to investigate and initiate projects to hire settlements in the land of origin of the perpetrator or in other countries with free settlement capacity.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals allowing private individuals to conduct prison operations. Such private prison operations shall apply to shorter sentences where conditions are not exceptional.’;» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The decision requires the Government to facilitate the private take-over of the former Rødbergod quickly, subject to an agreement with the new owner on the use of the facility for prison operations from 1 January 2005.’» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The ruling asks the Government not to initiate the scheme of accelerated parole of five and ten days in the coming years respectively.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to introduce a tax exemption on a police service vehicle from 2005 onwards.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to initiate attempts at electroscopic guns in the police.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e2943	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–6, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to start work on the development of victim care and care for relatives. The Government submits its own case in 2004.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess whether a Mini-Stiffinner can be created for addicted prisoners with too short sentences to be placed on the ordinary Stifinner’n offer in Oslo prison.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking to monitor the number of prisoners with mild mental retardation and low functional performance due to a combination of personality disorders and low IQ, and whether measures such as the Ribo Attangement Centre and the Broset can be used more frequently for those convicted.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government, in cooperation with the Police Directorate, is asked to draw up a plan to equip police cars with modern communication equipment in the near future. Experience must be gained in such a plan from our neighbouring country.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to continue to operate at the School of Police at Bruvoll in the North Odal.’ The Central Party has announced that they will support these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e2983	Then there is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a plan for a decentralised training scheme for prison officers on Kongsvinger at the latest in the revised State budget 2004.’» The Central Party has announced their support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e3002	Excuse me, can the President take the vote again?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e3009	Was it wrong? - It's nodding. Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e3023	We're going to Framework Area 5 and minority proposals related to this. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3 to Framework Area 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e4562	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2 to Framework Area 5, from the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e6150	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 to Framework Area 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e9251	The central party has announced that they will vote against it, otherwise the president has the impression that the other parties will support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e9254	The party of progress will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e9261	SV will also vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e9268	The coastal party also votes against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e9275	As indicated in the budgetary agreement, the Workers' Party shall support the suspension in a subsidiary manner and shall decide individually whether to vote against it in order to demonstrate that they are in disagreement with the framework in which it is or are surrendering. Now the president has the impression of the sum in the Chamber that the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party are opposed. Is that correct? - It's nodding. Everyone was given the right voting instructions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e9296	The whole committee is behind this Roman number, and the Center Party has warned that they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e9313	The Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party are behind this Roman number. The center part has joined the sequences, so they're also behind this Roman number.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e9758	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 20 November 2003: ‘A central body shall be set up to investigate reports against police and prosecution officers.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e9776	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 20 November 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide rules on the handling of complaints against police and prosecutors’ officials and prosecutors.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e9793	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 20 November 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner with an evaluation of the quality of the work of police lawyers after the entry into force of the amendments to the law on the extension of police lawyers’ prosecution competence. The adequacy of the capacity of police lawyers shall be assessed in this context.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e9809	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Asmund Kristoffersen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 18 November 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to take the initiative in a public inquiry into children growing up with gay parents.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e9827	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Asmund Kristoffersen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Progress Party, sent from the Odelstinget meeting on 18 November 2003: ‘The Government is asked to evaluate the law and its scope after two years of practicalisation of the new Biotechnology Act and whether it has obtained sufficient flexibility to operate within a subject area that is undergoing major change.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e9845	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Asmund Kristoffersen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 18 November 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to open the possibility of egg donation in Norway. The Government is requested to carry out a survey of egg donation practices in other countries and to make suggestions on how this can be carried out in Norway.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e9863	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 18 November 2003: ‘The Government is asked to evaluate the law and its scope after five years of application of the new Biotechnology Act.’ The Right Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party are behind the proposal. The Labour Party and the Progress Party have announced that they will support this proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02.ana.ud343e9881	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 18 November 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to be properly informed on new guidelines for foetal diagnostics and guidelines for the use of ultrasound before they enter into force.’ The Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party are behind the proposal.
