ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e33	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group. In addition, the President will propose that there should be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e40	As there is a unanimous vote by the Committee in this matter, I will not take that long. This legislative proposal is justified by the need to clarify the basis for delegating powers beyond the normal framework for the implementation of streamlining measures. In addition, the Government proposes to provide a specific basis for the delegation of powers by the RAC to the Power Supply Emergency Organisation. The legislative proposal has been consulted in a number of instances and the views of the hearing bodies have been made known to the Committee. As I said at the outset, the amendment of the law is supported by a unanimous committee. The situation we had in the last winter, where we so far avoided rationalisation measures, showed how vulnerable the Norwegian supply system is. The situation we had, however, should not be a surprise to anyone, as for many years there have been warnings from the top expertise we have in the field, namely from both Statnett and NVE, that the ever-increasing gap between supply and demand for power could quickly bring us into a critical situation. When I and others from the Advancement Party have for a number of years warned against the same from this pulpit, we have obviously spoken for deaf ears. Little and nothing has unfortunately been done to increase production and improve power balance. Instead, governments and the majority of the population have actively intervened in the power market over many years and prevented a necessary increase in power generation. Such an energy policy, or rather a lack of energy policy, is the direct cause of the explosive development we have had in power prices, as well as the risk we have of disconnection and rationalization. I just want to end by adding that it is completely incomprehensible to me that an energy storm power like Norway, which is almost flooding with energy, has managed to mess it up in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e57	The Government's proposal for amendments to the Energy Act represents the necessary adjustments to the Energy Act rules for the implementation of rationalisation. The need for changes was revealed during the strained force situation in the last winter. Before I go into some of the points in the proposal, I would like to make it clear that the proposals do not involve changes to the rules as to when it would be appropriate to introduce rationale. The proposal, on the other hand, clarifies the legal framework in order to delegate powers to the KPO in the context of the implementation of the RAG. I have had as a starting point for the proposal how important it is for the concrete decisions on rationalisation to be taken at local level, where the problems are best known. The KBO covers all units involved in production, including watercourse regulation, transmission and distribution of electrical energy and district heating according to the Energy Act. A total of 200 companies are included. The KBO is hierarchically organised, with the central management of the power supply, the regional managers of the power supply, the district managers of the power supply and other units, such as watercourse regulators, power producers and network companies. The central management consists of the emergency services, i.e. NVE, and the system administrator, i.e. Statnett. Power supply heads and heads of districts are State representatives when they exercise their responsibilities and duties under applicable law and regulations. The administrative and operational systems that can deal with any rationalisation situation in regional and local areas are built up in the KBO. I would like to stress that it is those who are close to the challenges, who have the best local knowledge, professional insights and prerequisites to find the socially correct solutions in the shortest possible time, in line with the plan already in place. In order to implement effective crisis management, it is therefore necessary to be able to delegate the RAC to take the necessary decisions relating to the implementation of the CRP. In my view, it is very important that there is no doubt in this connection about the legal basis on which KBO might intervene in the power supply. At the same time, it has been necessary for the Ministry to ensure that the implementation of any rationale is more effective. The proposal states that the rules on complaints and conversion laid down in the Administrative Act shall not apply to individual decisions taken by the Counciling Authority or the CBO in the context of the implementation of the Counciling Act. In the event of a crisis, if rationalisation would be necessary, it would paralyze the decision-making apparatus if the Council authorities were to first deal with complaints on individual decisions relating to operational implementation. In the context of such an improvement in the efficiency of the implementation of rations, it is also proposed to introduce an infringement fee in the event of infringements of the rules on rations. The amendments to the Energy Act adopted by Odelstinget today will provide the necessary tools for the effective implementation of power rationing if we are to face such a situation. Of course, we have to be prepared for the worst, but we have to hope for the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e79	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 115]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e95	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 15 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Progress Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Centre Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the Coastal Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President sees it as a matter of fact. The representative Heidi Sørensen speaks on behalf of the spokesperson for the cause, who is a member of the Lagninget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e106	On behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Molvik, I would like to present the opinion of the Social Committee on the law on amendments to the social services law, etc. and the Law on Health Services in Municipalities [[security of law in relation to the use of coercion and power in relation to individuals with mental retardation]] The proposal suggests that Chapter 6A of the Social Services Act is mainly passed on in a new and permanent legislation – Chapter 4A of the Social Services Act. The Committee acknowledges that, in some cases, there may be a need for coercion and power in the municipal care service to some persons with mental retardation. The Committee also recognises that the issue contains many dilemmas of an ethical nature and in relation to the issue of human dignity, human rights and the legal certainty of individuals. For such reasons, the majority of the Committee, all except the Advance Party, is of the opinion that laws and regulations governing the use of force and power are necessary in cases where such use is considered necessary. The majority therefore support the Ministry's proposal that Chapter 6A of the Social Services Act be passed on mainly in a new and permanent legislation, Chapter 4A of the Social Services Act. I believe that the representatives of the Progress Party will set out their views. With regard to experience with the Social Services Act Chapter 6A, the Committee points out that since 1999, Norway has had a temporary law regulating the use of force and power. During this period, an advisory group, referred to as the Council, has been involved in the practice of the law. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, notes with satisfaction that all those who have expressed an opinion on the impact of the existing legislation express their positive effects and have led to a reduction in the use of coercion. The majority are also pleased that the state states that the legislation has helped focus on measures other than the use of coercion and power. With regard to other measures to reduce the use of coercion and power, the Committee would stress that a high quality of the offer given to individual persons with reduced development will be essential to the need for the use of coercion and power. In this context, the Committee would point out that both empowerment and increased access to resources at municipal level will be crucial for the quality of the supply that can be provided in the future. With regard to the relationship with human rights, the Committee is committed to the fact that rules of law allowing the use of coercion and power to individual groups require special vigilance, in order to reduce the risk of the law being applied to individual users in a way that violates the individual's human dignity and human rights. The Committee points out that Norway has made clear commitments in this respect, including: by incorporating the European Convention on Human Rights into Norwegian law. As regards relations with other legislation, the majority of the Committee, all except the Progress Party and the Centre, considers that there is a need for legislation regulating the use of coercion and power for groups other than those with mental retardation. In this context, the majority point to a law regulating the use of coercion, etc. to persons with dementia. However, the majority consider it appropriate to consider further the issue of common legislation before a decision on any common legislation is taken. Another majority, including the Centre Party, will also underline the need to regulate the use of coercive measures to carry out medical examination and treatment, including dental treatment. This majority is of the opinion that there is a need for better harmonisation of municipal health and social legislation and that it should be a long-term objective to arrive at one common law that regulates the use of coercion and power in relation to different groups which, for various reasons, cannot give their consent. With regard to the legislation of the other Nordic countries, the Committee points out that there is different legal status in the Nordic countries with regard to legislation regulating the use of force and force. While Sweden does not have this type of legislation, Denmark has rules that are similar to Norwegian legislation, while Finland is considering introducing such legislation. With regard to the legislative proposal itself, the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, supports the proposals contained in the proposal with regard to the existing legislation passed on by the new law. The majority indicate that a solid majority of the hearing bodies also agree to this. However, the majority would stress that the use of force and coercion is to be used only in emergency situations, where this is absolutely necessary to prevent or limit material damage. The majority would also strongly stress that any other measure should be put to the test before force or power is put into effect. Access to coercion must not lead to a reduction in efforts to improve the quality and extent of care provided to the individual mentally impaired. The majority point to the fact that the use of coercion and power in behavioural change measures is not carried on as a basis of its own. The opinions of the hearing bodies crack at this point. However, on the basis of an overall assessment, the majority will support the proposal in the proposition not to pursue behavioural change as their own basis, showing, inter alia, that: to the consultation opinion of the Norwegian Association for the Developmentally Impaired, where it states: ‘Experience has shown that such treatment does not have the effect hoped for and, in extreme cases, goes far beyond the stated value of the law and the standards of soundness of acceptable treatment.’ On the other hand, the majority consider that there should continue to be access to the use of coercive measures in training and training, but limited only to situations where this is necessary to meet the recipient’s basic needs for food, clothing, rest, sleep, hygiene and personal safety. The majority indicates that a majority in the Council recommends that the use of coercion and power be made possible, based on the consent of recipients over 16 years of age, and that agreements can be concluded with the parent or parents on the use of coercion or power against children under 16 years of age. This proposal is not followed up in the proposal. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Party of Advances, will agree, on the basis of an overall assessment, with the Ministry's assessments and support the proposal not to open up the use of coercion based on the consent of the recipient or agreements with representatives of children under the age of 16. The majority indicate that the Ministry proposes to soften the requirement for two service providers to be present in the implementation of planned damage mitigation measures and measures to meet the basic needs of the recipient in such a way that this can be avoided if it is ‘to the detriment of the recipient’. The majority consider this to be reasonable and therefore support the proposal. The majority also record that it is proposed to abandon today's educational requirements for the other of the two service providers. The majority support this proposal, but would point out that, through the consultations within the Committee, concerns have been expressed about the current exemption practices in the field of training requirements. The majority are strongly concerned that the use of coercion and power in the care sector needs to be subject to good and effective supervision. In order to ensure this, the majority consider that it is necessary that the county, in addition to systemic supervision, should also be subject to local supervision. The majority therefore favours, inter alia: the following proposal: ‘In Law No 13 December 1991 81 on social services, the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 2-6 shall be replaced by the following: The Committee would point out that, in the context of the examination of Ot.prp. No 54 for 2002-2003, Rusreform II, changes involving some adjustments to the proposal were made. The Committee is also aware that the proposal for a bill makes a false reference in the third paragraph of Section 2-6 and that the words ‘and drink’ have been erroneously deleted from the proposal for point (c) of the third paragraph of Section 4A-5. The Committee shall, on this basis, promote proposals accordingly. Finally, I would recommend the majority position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e146	Have a good time on the matter's rapporteur for the Ot.prp. No 55 for 2002-2003 not in Odelstinget, the Workers' Party will nevertheless take the opportunity to commend the case rapporteur. The whole vote takes the form of a solid majority of the views of the rapporteur on the matter. Today, when Odelstingen deals with a matter of legal certainty through the use of coercion and power in relation to individuals with mental retardation, an overall committee has recognised that human dignity, human rights and the legal certainty of individuals are at the core. On this issue, we will be able to face many difficult challenges. Because this is so difficult, we believe that there is a need for legislation that regulates the use of force and power and, as the majority of the Committee puts it, ‘in cases where such use is considered necessary’. For the Workers' Party, it has been important to listen to those who have expressed their opinion on the impact of existing legislation. Reference is made to the fact that it has led to a reduction in the use of coercive measures and, in particular, it is important that the legislation has helped focus on other measures. We are convinced that good quality and, in general, more resources for each developmental barrier will reduce the need for the use of coercion and power, as the representative Heidi Sørensen also mentioned in his contribution. Increased access to resources for municipalities will be essential for the quality to be delivered in this area. Quality must be an explicit goal for us. We must be concerned that rules of law that allow the use of power and coercion to individual groups require that we follow extra closely to ensure that the law is applied in such a way that it does not violate the individual's human dignity. There is a strong majority who share the view of the Ministry that the present proposal for amendment will not lead to any change on this point. During the examination of the case, it has been made apparent that the majority of the Committee sees the need to have legislation on the use of power and coercion also for groups other than those with mental retardation. I guess we see that we're facing some of the same challenges when, for example, we're facing some of the same challenges. Demens Spaces. Nevertheless, we think it would be useful to have the matter determined whether we should have a common regulatory framework. This is a comprehensive case that requires treatment with great respect for those who will affect it in the future. Finally, I would like to mention: we are pleased that the temporary law that has regulated the use of force and power is now being made permanent. But as the majority agree, we need to follow developments closely here, and that is why we want an evaluation of the impact of the law after three years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e163	The use of coercion and power against individuals concerns fundamental ethical and political issues. It has therefore been necessary to carry out a very thorough examination of the present legislative proposal. The interim legislation was thoroughly investigated and debated in the United Kingdom, with a particular focus on the relationship with human rights. The regulatory policy is closely monitored and evaluated. The government’s legislative proposals are now widely accepted by the Stortinget, stakeholders and trade unions. The background to the broad opening up of the legislative proposal is the positive experience with the temporary legislation. Experience shows reduced use of coercion and power, increased focus on the integrity of the user and enhanced legal certainty for the individual. Ot. pp. No 55 for 2002-2003 is about the difficult balance between respect for individual integrity and self-determination on the one hand, and society's duty to care for those who cannot care for themselves on the other. In the past, these considerations were left to care professionals alone. Through the present legislative proposal, we, as politicians, have taken responsibility for setting a clear, restrictive framework for the exercise of powers against a vulnerable group. There is just the need to protect those with mental retardation, which is the main reason why the Norwegian Association for Developmentally Impaired Persons has been a driver of legislative regulation in this area. When the recipient's own stakeholder organisation asked for such a code, it was recognised that power and coercion were previously widely used. There was a clear need to limit this daily frequency, to safeguard users’ rights and to strengthen legal certainty significantly. The proposal for a new Chapter 4A of the Social Services Act recognises that, in some exceptional cases, the use of force and power is absolutely necessary to protect the individual recipient or others from material damage. Such an exercise of authority may also be essential in order to ensure the essential need for hygiene, food and rest. For this vulnerable group, freedom from coercion may mean a right to go to court. I am pleased that there is agreement on society's duty to provide care and protection against mentally retarded people. At the same time, I agree with the government's restrictive line of access to the use of coercion. Permanent legislation limits access to power use in relation to temporary legislation. The use of coercion and power as part of behavioural change measures shall no longer be permitted. In this context, the user's integrity is given decisive importance. An important reason for reduced use of power is clearly an increased focus on the professional development of alternative methods. The strict requirement for other measures to be tried before coercion is implemented has contributed in a positive direction. Experience has shown that the physical organisation of a dwelling may have an impact on the degree of challenging behaviour. Importance of interaction and communication on the premises of the recipient is also important. The same applies to the quality of service provision. Cooperation between municipal social services and specialist health services is central to ensuring high-quality services. Work to limit the use of coercion and power requires good professionals, who have to solve the challenges of everyday life in this area. The competences and attitudes of service providers are essential to ensure that the integrity of users is respected in practice. I want to commend the work these professionals have done through the practice of Chapter 6A, which has shown such positive results for users. When the Party voted against the temporary legislation in this area, it noted that: ‘However, this member considers that the high-level objective set by the Department cannot be achieved by the proposal for coercive regulation contained in Ot.prp. No 58 [[1994-95]] Luckily, the progress party was wrong. Experience shows that the use of coercion has been reduced and entered into controlled forms, legal certainty has been strengthened, and there is an increased focus on the use of alternative methods that promote respect for users. When the Progress Party proposes to repeal the law, the option is not a situation without coercion and power towards this user group. The alternative is a situation without legal certainty, by using power in enclosed spaces and leaving it to the service provider alone without transparency and control. Fortunately, this is not a situation where the population wants to go back to. However, we should not settle down, but continue to have a critical look at the law and its practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e187	That one should be able to reduce the use of coercion and power against the mentally retarded by legalizing this use of power is to me as incomprehensible today as it was when the temporary law was passed. Nor is there any evidence in this setting or in the proposition that there is less exercise of power towards mentally retarded people today than before. I personally question the evaluation available from a ministerially appointed council, which has evaluated the use of coercion under the law. This council was composed only of persons who were subject to the law. However, I note with satisfaction that the current revised law has banned behavioural therapy. It was also the type of treatment that was most grotesque before we had any legal regulation at all. Even in the time when the law has now been in operation, we have seen serious abuse from the so-called behavioral expertise, which can rightly be called assaults rather than treatment of special patients in this care. All previous experience, even while the law has been in operation, shows that, with a sufficient number of qualified personnel, the need for coercion of different kinds is reduced quite radically. It is therefore far more important, in my opinion, to bet on good professional staffing than to allow the use of coercion and power in this care. The implementation of the law has so far led to a costly bureaucracy and has not solved the most everyday problems, namely situations that arise there and then, at the moment. There are such situations that are most common, and that is where you need professional personnel to clean up in a proper, good way. In this context, I find it alarming that the proposal provides for a reduction in the requirement of competence and staff in the implementation of coercive measures. In my opinion, the majority in the Committee is more vigilant in supporting this, which must be entirely justified in economic terms – which is, of course, not stated in the proposal. On behalf of the Progress Party, I must express my great disappointment that the majority of the committee in the present position is expressing the closest welcome of a similar law of coercion to the Senate, which has been advertised by the Department. Adopting a law of coercion to the Senate, perhaps the weakest of the weakest of our patient groups, gives me associations to social systems I thought we had gone far too far. This country has and will continue to have an economic situation that allows for human care instead of technical/electronic care and forced use. The Progress Party will also vote against the legislative proposal this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e204	The Christian People's Party, together with a clear majority in the Committee, acknowledges that, in some cases, there may be a need for coercion and power in the municipal care and care services to people with mental retardation. It is from this realization that the Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for a law that regulates the use of force and power in those cases where such use is considered necessary. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the Ministry's proposal that Chapter 6A of the Social Services Act be passed on mainly in a new permanent legislation. The Council, which delivered its final report on 11 June 2002, concluded that temporary laws have contributed to improving the control of the use of coercion and power during the provision of services, to a higher level of recognition of the integrity of the service recipient and to self-determination and to a reduction in the use of coercion in the provision of services. This development sees the Christian People's Party as positive. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Council and others who have expressed their opinion on the impact of current legislation have stated that it seems positive and that the use of coercion has been reduced. For the Christian People's Party, it is a goal to reduce the use of coercion and power. A law that regulates the use of coercion and power against individuals with mental retardation contains many dilemmas, and it acknowledges the Christian People's Party. First, I want to point to the dilemma of ethical nature and dilemma in relation to the question of human dignity and human rights and individual legal certainty. However, the Christian People's Party has clearly fallen down on the fact that it is necessary to have such a law permanently. The Christian People's Party stresses that the purpose of such a law is to limit and control any necessary use of coercion and power, and that other measures of a voluntary and positive nature should be tested first. For the Christian People's Party, it is decisive that the use of coercion and power must never happen because of a lack of or dissatisfaction with care. The Christian People's Party believes that empowerment at municipal level is the most central tool in improving the service provision of the relevant user group. The Christian People's Party stresses that high quality of supply is decisive to reduce the need for the use of coercion and power. Another experience gained during the period of temporary law is the many exemptions from the education requirements that are required. The Christian People's Party is concerned that such a dispensation policy can help to weaken the legal security of service recipients. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that it is important that one follows closely in the development of the dispensation practices. The Committee's plural, including the Christian People's Party, believes that there is a need for legislation regulating the use of coercion and power for groups other than mental retardation. The majority indicate in the committee setting that a law regulating the use of coercion is being worked on. to people with dementia. The Christian People's Party believes that the issues associated with the use of coercion over these two groups are very similar. We still believe that it is right to address this issue further and look at issues of common legislation before deciding whether any common legislation will be signed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e219	The centre party was very sceptical of the first draft law that came when it came to the use of power and coercion against people with mental retardation. This draft law was then also sent back to the government of the social committee at the time. I would like to stress that the purpose of such a law as we are dealing with now must be to limit and control any use of power and coercion, and that all other measures of a voluntary and positive nature should be tried first. Furthermore, the use of power and coercion must never occur because of a lack of and unsatisfactory provision of care. It is very important that the quality of care — care, care and the environment — is such that one does not provoke difficult behaviour. However, I am satisfied today that what was designed in the Social Law Chapter 6A, these basic attitudes themselves, that one now sees that one has better control over the use of power and coercion, and that the number of cases of use of power and coercion seems to go down after the registrations that have been made. If we are to maintain and develop a society in which the inviolability of individuals and the ethic of society are properly protected and practiced, the law and guidelines must have such a clear and restrictive starting point. The responsibility of society in relation to human dignity and the rights of individuals is very important if we want to have a society where we are to respect the individual. It is also important that Norway has a proper relationship with international human rights and conventions that we have committed ourselves to by signing them. We notice that the Department is working on a legal basis for the use of coercion against people with dementia. We would stress that there is a great disparity between these two groups of users, and that the development of behaviour and behaviour needs to be respected and accepted as much as possible regardless of the group of users involved. This can be done, among other things. What others have been involved in here, that we have now got rid of the possibility of using power and coercion in relation to behavioral therapy. We are very sceptical about using coercion and power over expected behavior and behaviour as attempts to rehabilitate and change the way individuals behave. However, we see that in special situations, for example: in the case of medical examinations and treatment, there may be a need for legislation in cases where one must use some form of force or coercion in relation to different persons and groups which, for various reasons, cannot give his consent. It is important that you have a good offer for everyone who needs care and care, and that the offer should be such that you should not use coercion and power to enable people to get their daily needs met. Furthermore, it is important that there is competence in service providers in this offer, so that one knows that quality is best. There is therefore reason to stress that these aspects of this law come into the context of training and further training of personnel, so that people are aware of how to act and how best to provide services. We are very pleased that the Government has proposed not to continue that behavioural measures could be the basis for the use of force and coercion. I would also like to point out two or three other things that we have looked at in connection with the law, among others. it relates to the relationship between the recipient's being able to consent to an agreement on the use of force and coercion. We believe that it is right not to enter into such an agreement, nor should the councillor be able to do so. We are also aware that this law is so serious that it should be followed closely and that a thorough experience and research-based evaluation should be obtained. We want a debate on this law to be reopened in three years' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e234	In some exceptional cases, it is necessary to use coercion and power in caring for persons with mental retardation. Extensive use of force and force is not desirable, but in some cases it may unfortunately be necessary. This is also the background to the fact that from 1 January 1999 we have had rules on the rights and limitation and control of the use of coercion and power against individuals with mental retardation. The purpose of these rules has not been to open up the use of coercion, but rather to prevent and restrict as far as possible the use of coercion and power. In addition, the aim has been to obtain control of the necessary coercion. The current rules of the Social Services Act Chapter 6A have a long history. The legislative proposal was adopted in July 1996, following several amendments and additions during the deliberations. Among other things, decide that an advisory group should be involved in the practice of the rules and assess practices in relation to legal security issues and professional development. In addition, it was decided that the rules should have a time-limited duration of three years from their entry into force. The majority also asked the Government to provide a major communication on guidelines for the practice of the rules and the main content of the regulations before the rules would come into force. This was promoted in 1998, and the rules entered into force on 1 January 1999. In April 2001, it was proposed to extend the functioning of Chapter 6A of the Social Services Act by two years, until 31 December 2003, and to extend the Council’s term of office by six months, until 1 July 2002. These proposals were promoted in Ot.prp following the advice of the Council. No 62 for 2000–2001 and was adopted by the Stortinget in June 2001. The legislative proposal we are discussing today is essentially a continuation of today's temporary rules. Most proposed changes are structural changes and simplifications. The main conditions for the use of coercion and power are proposed to continue, so that the measures can only be used to prevent or limit material damage. It is also clarified that solutions other than the use of coercion or power shall always be tested first. So force and power shouldn't be the first way out, but the last. Behavioural measures have also been proposed as a separate category. This is also in line with Council proposals. In their annual reports, the population has shown that the legislation has helped to focus on measures other than the use of coercion or power. The Council has concluded that the rules have contributed to better control of the use of force and power during the performance of the duties, to a higher recognition of the recipient’s right to respect for its integrity and self-determination and to a reduction in the use of force in the performance of the duties. In this context, the Council has recommended that a new legislation should follow the Social Services Act, Chapter 6A. I am pleased that those who have expressed their opinion on the effects of the current legislation say that it has worked in line with the intentions and led to a reduction in the use of coercion. I am also pleased that the statesmen have shown that the rules have helped to focus on measures other than the use of coercion and power. That's exactly what has also been the point, that we are able to reduce the use of force and power, that we strengthen the legal certainty of the individual, and that we have a regulatory framework that increases the knowledge and awareness of other measures than those that go under compulsion and power. Our focus has to go beyond this. Another experience with the law is that many exemptions have been granted from the training requirements imposed by the law. This presupposes that we follow closely the development of dispensation practices in the future. There is still a need to improve the skills of employees and, therefore, also the quality of the provision of mental retardation services in municipalities. Close and good cooperation between municipalities and the habilitation service will continue to be important. I notice that there is a major cross-political consensus in the Storting on the proposals that the Government has made. I'm glad. I would like to end by saying that I see it as positive that the temporary rules that have worked for five years are now replaced by legislation that does not allow for a limited period of time. This does not mean, however, that we should not follow closely in the future. We're going to do that. The proposal emphasises the need to ensure a thorough evaluation of the new rules and their practice. I have noticed that the majority of the social committee has asked for a thorough experience and research-based evaluation after the rules have been in place for three years. Such an evaluation will be initiated.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e255	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e258	The majority expressed concern in their comments about the current practice of dispensation in relation to training requirements for service providers. When only one of the service providers is required to receive training, what has the Council of State intended to do to tighten up the relatively liberal dispensation practices in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e266	It is important for both legal certainty and mental retardation that service providers have the skills to be able to ensure that they are actually given the best service. The follow-up to the monitoring of the statesmen — the need for both systemic and local supervision — will be important. It is also important to pay attention to the competences of the other service providers. In addition, we are now launching an evaluation, which we will look at after three years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e275	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 116]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e291	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e300	The matter we are dealing with today is the result of our decision by the Stortinget to incorporate the Patent Directive into the EEA Agreement. The proposal from the Government to amend patent laws and plant processing laws is a follow-up to that decision. There should be no reason today to comment that the discussion of whether the decision in ours was right or not. However, on a general basis, I would argue that it is better to regulate an area than just to leave it to the strongest actors to define what should be current practice in this area. In particular, this area has large commercial values, and where multinational companies can move forward, e.g.: to third world countries. Of course, when a country is implementing an EU directive, there is a certain room for interpretation of how this is to be done. This is also the case with the Patent Directive. I am very pleased that the Government has chosen to impose a restrictive interpretation on the implementation of the EU Patent Directive in Norwegian law. The Committee as a whole supports such a restrictive line. There has been some written communication between the Committee and the Ministry of Justice. In my view, this communication shows that the Government's proposal takes care of and makes it possible for the Government and the Storting to have a restrictive enforcement of the Norwegian law directive. Here, of course, there will be a concrete assessment in each case of what is restrictive. That assessment is to be carried out by the Patent Board, in the same way as it conducts such assessments today. But I know for sure that the board here will follow up the wishes of the Government and the Storting. This directive has been discussed both in Norway and in some EU countries. One of the appeals raised against the Directive is that the rights of the developing countries to protect their own genetic resources are to a small extent safeguarded. To say that these countries themselves can regulate such issues in their own legislation. However, from the Labour Party's side, we would ask the Government to support the need of the developing countries to protect their own interests, either in international negotiations or in other areas where participation is international. One of the most special aspects of this matter is that part of the Government, with the Prime Minister at its head, has chosen to take this one against the Government's own policy. This may have an important intrinsic significance, but has no real meaning here today. The reality is that the minority in the government has grown old and reckoned that the Labour Party and the Progress Party would make sure that the government's policy went through here in the hall. I have to admit that I think it's a little honorable behavior, and I know that a quote from Peer Gynt is quite descriptive of what the minority in the Government, the representatives of the Christian People's Party and the Left, have done, simply: "I suppose I can follow you on the road, but I protest for the whole world." With that I recommend the setting from the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e322	First of all, let me just make it clear that from the right side we follow a large part of the reasoning and the work that the rapporteur has done in this matter. The big debate on the implementation of the EU Patent Directive was completed in ours, and what this issue is primarily about are proposals for amendments to the Patent Act and to the Plant Breeders Act to implement the Patent Directive in Norwegian law. This is primarily about putting forward proposals for remedial measures, in order to take account of any unforeseen adverse reactions resulting from the Directive. It is also due to the implementation of the Directive that the Ministry proposes to implement the provisions of the Patent Directive in the patent law rather than by a separate special law on patenting biotechnological inventions. The Patent Directive does not, as such, harmonise Norwegian legislation in terms of the general conditions for obtaining patents, but I feel that there is very much agreement in this matter. One concludes differently, but I think an entire committee is behind the desire to ensure a restrictive interpretation of the EU Patent Directive, and it is emphasised once again that strict practice is in line with the strictest practices we find in the EU Member States. This also shows that the Government is following up the decision to implement the Patent Directive as provided, and that is, I believe, the whole Storting satisfied with. I also think it is important to stress that, of course, in this case, there are some people who are trying to raise the potential disadvantages surrounding the implementation of the directive. I think there is every reason to focus on the many benefits that the Patent Directive will bring to the Norwegian biotechnology industry. I am quite sure that a unison environment in Norway warmly welcomes the implementation and implementation, also in the case of the decision that the Stortinget will take today. Finally, it is hardly unknown to anyone that this was the only case in the Sem-Declaration where it was hers. The fact that the government parties in this case, as the only case so far and probably in the four-year period, separate layers, is not at all suitable for raising awareness. When the rapporteur uses the concept that part of the Government has ‘old’ that a majority is given by the Government today in the Chamber with the support of the Workers’ Party, this is not, from our point of view, in the vicinity of a justification for the word ‘gambling’. It would certainly be lacking that the Workers' Party would not continue to believe the same as they did in our case. But I feel that this matter too will be a happy ending.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e340	The Progress Party supported the proposal to incorporate the Patent Directive into Norwegian law first and foremost because it supports a development that gives us better opportunities to cure diseases and to promote better well-being and quality of life. We clearly see that fundamental arguments can be raised against this directive. It is therefore central that the authorities have an important role to play in the future by ensuring that the ethical and principleal aspects of key issues are adequately addressed. This will be an ongoing supervisory task that the authorities will have to follow up in the coming years. There is good reason to believe that EU authorities will also contribute to ensuring a strict framework for the implementation of this Directive. Biotechnology is considered to be one of the industries in the future that will have the greatest potential for value creation. Therefore, it is important for Norway to follow this development and for Norwegian companies to be guaranteed almost equal conditions of competition with those which are our main trading partners and that this is reflected in the legislation in the implementation of the Directive in Norwegian law. Developments in the pharmaceutical industry are fast, and countries with a number of larger and fast-growing industries in the industry are often countries with significant economic growth, thus ensuring solid enterprises and jobs. Norway has opportunities to play a role in this sector if conditions so permit. An overall committee agrees that a restrictive interpretation must be used when the Patent Directive is to be incorporated into Norwegian law within the existing scope of action. Consideration has been given to the possibilities associated with the requirements for height and width of invention in the case of naturally occurring material. With regard to the level of invention, strict requirements are correct in order to obtain a patent, and a certain threshold is needed to obtain it. Some of the patents that have been most criticised internationally have been abolished because they have not met the invention height requirement. This requirement has been practised more stringently in Europe than in the United States, which has recently tightened its guidelines. It is important that the Government takes into account issues related to the level of invention in the implementation of the Patent Directive in Norwegian law. The same applies to the scope or scope of the invention, where an appropriate balance must be struck between the exclusive right to commercial exploitation and the consideration of other interests or actors, such as: in research and development. Following a consultation within the Committee of representatives of the Institute of Fridtjof Nansen, the Ministry of Justice has assessed the views and opinions of the Institute. The Progress Party agrees with the comments and assessments made by the Ministry on the issues raised and related to the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e355	Because the Patent Directive does not harmonise current patent law, the treatment today is not a rematch on the Patent Directive itself. The general conditions for obtaining patents — requirements for novelty, inventiveness and industrial utility — shall continue to be regulated by national law. We therefore have a certain room for action in the implementation of the directive in Norwegian law. However, the directive is and has our controversy because conflicting concerns, such as industrial development, research and global resource and distribution issues, have opposed each other. We have therefore put some work into the implementation in Norwegian law, and we have had some comments and amendments to the proposed draft law. The individual things come out of our remarks. We comment on how we think the ethical denominator should work. We say a little bit about temptations to object to a patent. We also comment on the need to charge a fee for any objections that have been submitted within the deadline. I'm not going to comment on this in more detail in my post, it's from our comments in the committee. I should rather use my time to talk about the difficult questions. I find it necessary to clarify that the Committee says that we want Norway to have restrictive practices in relation to the patenting of biological material. It is not the case that business necessarily has a liberal practice of patenting. From an economic point of view, it is also a point of view that the patent system balances differences of opinion. For wide patents are not a good thing, nor is it for business. This poses special challenges to the patenting of plants and animals. The goal of the patent system is to give the inventor an exclusive right to the invention he has done – neither more nor less. It is in the interests of both society and the individual business community that the patent requirement covers the new invention as closely as possible. That's what we've been working on. We propose that one of the patent requirements relating to naturally occurring material should be based on a strict practice based on the intention that patents should not be wider than that attributable to invention. The design of the patent requirement determines what will be covered by the commercial one-off right granted to the inventor. Therefore, it is so important that this is regulated in the requirement and not only in the general application. We have therefore proposed a concrete amendment to the legal text at this point. We suggest that one should include in the patent requirement what is new in the patented invention, and then what in the invention that has sufficient inventiveness height to be protected by a patent. We've also concentrated on Norway's commitment through the Convention on Biological Diversity to consider issues of distribution and the environmental impact of intellectual property rights. This is a difficult question internationally. Under the Biodiversity Convention, the country supplying the genetic resources is entitled to part of the proceeds from the exploitation of the material. The Patent Directive does not require the provision of such information on the supplier or country of origin for the genetic material, but clarifies, on the contrary, that there is nothing to say about the handling of the application or the validity of the patent, whether proper information has been provided on the place of provenance of the biological material. This cannot therefore be made a condition for obtaining a patent in national law, but, as the Government has found out, it can be made a criminal offence not to provide information. The government has therefore proposed that patent applicants be penalised in accordance with Section 166 of the Criminal Code in the absence of information on where the genetic material is taken from. Correspondence between the Ministry and the Committee is the basis for proposing that this be regulated as a separate section of the Patent Act. And we're sure that there might be a more accurate statement. We have also proposed that the information obligation should include the provision by the inventor of an agreement to transfer part of his surplus to the supplier or the country of origin of the material, or to document why there is no such agreement, if it does not. In our opinion, this will be a good tool for achieving the objectives of the Convention on Biological Diversity. By requiring documentation of such an agreement, we make ourselves better able to achieve the objectives that we have committed ourselves to internationally. Let me end by saying that I don't believe SV and the amendment proposed by the Central Party is a commitment to strict practice. I appreciate what has been said earlier about the fact that Storting wants a strict practice in relation to the patent directive. I'm taking up the suggestions I've been showing you.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e385	The representative of Åsa Elvik has taken up the suggestions she has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e388	In the spring, we are dealing with the patent directive – a matter which the Christian People's Party has for many years had fundamental and fundamental ethical objections to, and against which the Left and Christian People's Party also had a reluctance in connection with the Sem Declarations. We now gave in our strong comments for these objections in our recordings here in the Stortinget, while the Christian People's Party and the Left's members in the Government took the same one in this matter. This was based on ethical objections, the consideration of biological deficiency and the consideration of developing countries’ potential for the exploitation of their own genetic resources. What is important for the Christian People's Party, when there is, however, a plurality of both the government and the magnificence of the Patent Directive, is that it is based on the most restrictive practice of this Directive in line with previous practice. That is why we have included in the majority of the odelstungsproposition we are discussing here today – on the implementation of the EU Patent Directive in Norwegian law. In this case, it is quite clear that we want to influence to limit practices. The Hearing Officers are of some opinion that it is important to avoid liberal patenting practices, even though there is somewhat unclear how restrictive they think patenting practices should be. We think it should be as restrictive as possible within the limits given. We have to exploit the space we have for action, and it is therefore reasonable that the Ministry suggests that the Patent Board be put on the line with the authorities in the most restrictive EU countries. The Christian People's Party finds it both logical and premise that international developments are moving towards a more critical view of what innovations in the field of biotechnology should provide patent protection and the scope of protection. It is preferable that the Competition Surveillance Authority should also have the possibility to grant a coercive licence in addition to the courts, so that proceedings on the coercive licence can then be settled faster and cheaper than in court proceedings. We are certain that it will be easier to check whether genetic resources have been obtained in accordance with national consent rules if patent applicants provide information about supplier countries. The Christian People's Party agrees that one should be visible and support the principle of self-rescue over one's own body. To be able to consult the Patent Board on an ethical matter in relation to the assessment of whether an invention conflicts with indications of public order or morality, it seems to me that it is highly eloquent. There is no doubt that this will provide a better basis for decision and strengthen the case information in the cases that the board is dealing with. The review bodies showed that there are shared views as to whether the appeal period should be extended. We are some with the ministry in that an extended right of appeal will make it easier and cheaper to attack patents that are contrary to public order or morals and that this will remain in the patent register. We in the Christian People's Party agree with the proposal that gardeners should not pay own remuneration for the use of patented animal propagating material in accordance with the agricultural exemption. We also support the harmonisation of legislation, as stated above. the patent cooperation convention on which the patent law is based, so that the general deadline for requesting an international patent application to apply in Norway is extended from 20 months to 31 months, corresponding to the other Nordic countries. Finally, for the Christian People's Party, international developments, with some strict interpretations and restrictions in the practice of the patent directive, are very positive, and we also feel that our position and arguments are so absolute in value and meaning. Secondly, it is of value to us that we are involved in influencing the practice that this gets in Norwegian law, influencing in international forums, and otherwise putting ethical, environmental and non-national considerations on the political agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e411	The centre party was against Stortingen's decision to accept the patent directive when it was dealt with in ours. The opinion of the centre party is based on the ethical concern that the Directive, through patenting, confers exclusive rights on living material. Of course, we could have repeated the debate from this day forward, but it is now the case that the majority have adopted the Patent Directive, and the law is to the extent that it is a consequence of it. This means, therefore, that the patent directive is being regulated today. I record that the Workers' Party shifts responsibility to the Government in such an important matter as this, and only assumes that the Government stands for restrictive practice. It's good that there's a total accumulation that's at the heart of it, and I think, in fact, Minister of Justice Dørum will be able to facilitate such restrictive practice. But I also see that so-called safe sources in the Left want Odd Einar Dørum to go to another department. In any case, Dørum will not be Minister of Justice forever. To leave to the Government to stand for the practice of such an important law as this, I believe the Storting should not have done so. We had the opportunity to tighten up, as the Center Party and SV have jointly proposed in some important areas. With the central party's principal position on the patent directive, it was by no means obvious that we would go into concrete legislative changes, as we have done with SV. It is done in an honest attempt to exploit the space of action that, after all, exists. Unfortunately, these proposals seem to have only the votes of the Central Party and the SV, and I would therefore ask that the voting be put up so that the proposals are taken up for voting first. When they fall, the Center Party will vote against the whole law.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e420	The issue of the EU Patent Directive has been difficult for the Government. As demonstrated by the grossing-up proposition promoted in January, the members of the Government of the Christian People's Party and the Left opposed the inclusion of the Directive in the EEA Agreement. The fact that the government parties had different views on the matter was clarified already during the Sem negotiations. The majority of the Government and the Stortinget have concluded that Norway should accept the Patent Directive as part of the EEA Agreement. I take note of that. It is important, however, that the scope of action provided by the Directive be used to ensure the best possible level of counter-representation. Therefore, the Odelstingsproposition does not only contain proposals for technical implementation of the provisions of the Patent Directive. It also contains proposals such as: must take account of ethics and distribution within the framework set by the Directive. The government stands united behind these proposals. I am pleased that the Industry Committee has continued the proposals in the proposal and expressly supports a restrictive line in the implementation of the Directive. At the same time, I sympathise with the views underlying the amendments tabled by the minority of the committee. The protection of patents must not go beyond the inventive step. In addition, it must be avoided that patents are granted on something that is a mere discovery. This can be justified for both ethical and distributive reasons. The scope of action provided by the Directive has been sought for in the design of the proposition. The proposition underlines, inter alia: that the practice should be restrictive in order to prevent the patent being too easy to obtain and the patent protection being extended too far. I think this will be in the interests of both industry and society. I therefore believe that the legislative proposal is sufficient to ensure restrictive practices within the framework of the Directive. Both the rapporteur and the minority of the Committee stress the importance of safeguarding the interests of developing countries in this area. I agree with this. The role of Norway in bridge building between OECD countries and developing countries in this area should therefore be continued. This is underlined in the roll-out proposal on the Patent Directive and underpins the Government’s policy. For example, Norway has: called for the possibility of requiring the indication of the origin of the genetic material in international patent applications. Norway is also actively participating in the development of international mechanisms to ensure a fair distribution of profits from the exploitation of genetic resources. A requirement to indicate the country of origin will support this. The Biodiversity Commission is examining, on a broad basis, measures that can meet the objectives of the Convention on Biodiversity, inter alia: availability of own genetic resources and a fair distribution of dividends. The government will follow up this work. Ethical and distributional considerations have also been sought by other proposals in the proposal, which have been continued by the Committee. The proposals can be summarised briefly as follows: Farmers shall be entitled to use breeding animals for their own agricultural purposes, without payment to the proprietor of the patent. Intervention against the misuse of patents should be facilitated, for example: if the price is unduly priced. Among other things, the Competition Authority has access under the Patent Act to intervene against the misuse of patents. It shall be easier to abolish patents which are found to collide with fundamental ethical principles, such as: certain patents concerning human biological material. An ethical name shall be established with which the Patent Board may consult. This will provide a better basis for assessing whether an invention is contrary to fundamental ethical principles, in order to deny patents. It is my hope that these proposals will contribute collectively to ethical and distributive sound patent practices within the framework of the Patent Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e453	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 119]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e466	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e558	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e568	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e905	The progress party has announced that they want to oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e918	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President here also expects the Progress Party to oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e932	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e939	During the debate Åsa Elvik, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, put forward two proposals, the proposals No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e950	The President has understood that the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want it to vote first on their proposals. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The patent law shall be amended as follows:Article 8 new fourth paragraph shall be replaced by the following:For inventions relating to or using biological material, the patent requirement shall cover only the biological material necessary for the industrial application indicated in the application. The patent requirements shall be clear, concise and supported by the description. The patent application shall clearly indicate how the biological material can be used industrially.The present Section 8 fourth to sixth paragraphs becomes the fifth to seventh paragraphs.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Patent Act shall be amended as follows:New § 8b shall be replaced by:If an invention concerns or uses biological material, the patent application shall state who and which country the inventor received or retrieved the material from: [[supplier country]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e1471	SV and the Center Party have announced that they want to oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e1484	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President here assumes that SV, the Central Party and the Coastal Party want to vote against. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-25-lower-2.ana.ud1026e1496	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
