ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e28	The President takes the liberty of wanting everyone a good new year and well met for the work of spring 2003. The representatives Karin S. Woldseth and Torstein Rudihagen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Five permit applications are available: from the Central Party Group of Great Britain that the granted permit for the representative of Eli Sollied Överaas shall be replaced by health leave from 8 January onwards and until further notice from the Right-wing Group on sick leave for the representative Silja Ekeland from 8 January onwards and until further notice from the representatives of Rune J. Kylaaen, Heikki Holmås and Magnhild Meltvej Kleppa on leave in days 8 and 9 January, all to take part in an information course at the Defence College. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the county of Hordaland, Erlend Nornes, is currently abroad and, for that reason, prevented from meeting in the Grand Duchy from 8 January to 10 January, under the authority of the representative of Silja Ekeland. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: for the county of Hordaland: Mali Grete N. Aksnes, Erlend Nornes and Bente Gunn Håtfuft For the province of More and Romesdal: Ola T. Heggem For Oslo: Akhtar ChaudhryFor the county of Rogaland: Change Skreuestad2. Mali Grete N. Aksnes is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Rune J. Skjellaaen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e102	Mali Grete N. Aksnes, Ola T. Heggem, Bente Gunn Håtfuft, Akhtar Chaudhry and Change Sjrestad are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e107	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e112	I suggest Finn Martin Vallersnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e117	Mr. Finn Martin Vallersnes is proposed as President-in-Office of the Council. – Other proposals are not available, and Finn Martin Vallersnes is considered unanimously elected president of the current week’s meetings. The representative, Karin Andersen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e122	On behalf of the representative Øystein Djupedal and myself, I would like to make proposals for increased state housing support and a proposal for a compensation scheme for municipalities that are facing unforeseen high social assistance costs due to increased electricity prices, in order to ensure the elderly and disadvantaged security that they will be helped to pay for the necessary heating.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e127	The representative, Siv Jensen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e131	On behalf of the representative Øyvind Korsberg and myself, I would like to make proposals to remove the electricity tax and VAT on electricity between 01.01.03 and 30.04.03.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e136	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e159	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Lars SponheimState Council Hilde Frafjord JohnsonState Council Victor D. Norman The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e178	I have a question for the Minister of Labour and Administration. For each day the unemployment rate increases, and there are no signs of improvement. The number is higher now than 10 years, and it's probably higher than it looks, because many have to thank a small job or give up. That's also 30 pst. fewer job vacancies that are advertised. Getting free is wasted on personal resources, it's wasted on society's resources, and it can be a serious social problem. It takes time to put in place measures or instruments that allow more people to get into work. My question to the minister is therefore: how many more are there that must lose their jobs before the government and the minister intend to put in some means to stop this negative development?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e187	Let me first say that developments in the labour market are worrying. The government has already pointed that out in the state budget. We've had an increase in the availability of about 20 pst in the last few years. We have also had a decrease in the number of job vacancies at the top of 20 pst. This does not mean, however, that there are not still many job vacancies, and it is important to be clear that the problem in the labour market is now different from that in the early 1990s, when there were many unemployed and almost no job vacancies. This means that our main challenge is actually to help the unemployed return to the labour market for jobs that still exist. The government's attitude to this is that the most important thing we have to do is to give the jobseekers active assistance to try to get work for themselves. Therefore, our main strategy has been to strengthen Aeta's role as a counselling and guidance body for job seekers. We will continue to follow that line, and we are already working on measures to strengthen the staffing unit, so that they can provide even better advice and guidance to the individual. In addition, we are going to increase efforts in terms of job training and job clubs and cooperation between Aetat and private intermediaries, to help people get back to work. Furthermore, in the past, we have also said to the Storting that we should continually assess the level of action, so that the day normal labour market measures are a bottleneck in helping job seekers, we will propose an increase in that level of action. For the time being, there has not been a bottleneck, and there is little intention to increase efforts in an area that would in fact have no net positive effect on job seekers. But the day we discover that the level of action is a bottleneck in this work, we will propose an increase here, and I will not rule out that it could happen already during the winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e196	I thank you for the answer, but I record that the government has not set any targets for such an important social problem as unemployment, and that they do not know when it is bad enough to put in action. Strengthening Aetat is good, but it's a long way to go, and it can be difficult to do with the resources in the building today. I want to grasp some of the other government council said. In some areas, leave is now available. The capacity of the construction industry is high, and there is a need for upgrading the schools. When SV has taken this up before, we have been told that there is a lack of capacity in the construction industry, therefore we cannot do this. There has never been any argument that there is no money to rust up schools. Everyone knows it's necessary. What is the reason why the government doesn't now when there's available capacity, and we know that you can build cheaper now than before, put in such a measure, which we know will get people to work, and where we'll get a very useful job done at the same time?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e203	On the last question, I would like to make it clear that detailed management of labour resources is not a dangerous way to get jobseekers back to work. It is quite clear that there is a job vacancy in the construction industry today. However, much more attention needs to be paid to the composition in order to draw some conclusions as to whether the unemployed in the construction industry are the type of labour needed to upgrade the schools. Free-time workers are not necessarily what is needed to have school buildings upgraded internally. With regard to the first comment of the representative Andersen, I would like to make it clear that helping the job-seekers through active efforts by Aetat is not a form of passive approach. We will help the jobseekers, we have said that we should ensure that there are no capacity limits in Aetat or in the response apparatus in relation to the work of the jobseekers. That's what's the main effort. It does not intend to launch measures if the measures themselves do not help those who are actually looking for work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e210	There will be follow-up questions – Inge Ryan.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e213	We have a Minister of Labour who is concerned with efficiency and conversion. Does the Minister not think it is worrying that we have a number of people who are running out over time and do not know what tomorrow brings, who could actually have accepted conversion and received training? I have had the pleasure of working in Aetat and know how people who become unemployed, both economically and not least mentally break down and despair that it is not a system that captures them when they have free capacity, when they have free time to just receive knowledge and learn new things, so they get ready for the job market. Doesn't the Council of State think it would be interesting to have a scheme to wind up the concept of 'unemployment' in Norway, but operates with two things: either you're in work, or you're in training?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e220	Yes, I fully agree with that. That is also the main strategy. But now we have to remember here that very many of those who have become unemployed in the last year are people who initially have very good qualifications, high education or very good and relevant job experience. There is certainly no solution for these to be placed on further training or further courses. A good IT employee or a university graduate in other disciplines does not need to sit on the school bench any longer. What we have said is that the approximation must be that first you have to try to help the individual find another job. If this is not helpful, Aetat will have to go in and help them find work, provide them with active assistance on how to inform themselves in the labour market, and, where appropriate, use private intermediaries to help them out. If it doesn't help, it might be interesting to place people on action. However, action places themselves are not a good solution in relation to job-seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e228	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e231	The Council of State expresses concern because of the increasing unemployment rate – 20 p.m. last year. At the same time, we know that this government is perhaps the government that has been most concerned with importing unskilled labour from outside the EEA territory. We know that the EU will be expanded by several countries from 2005, and people in these countries will have access to the Norwegian labour market. My first question to the Council of State is: Does the Government have any strategy to inform the Norwegian labour market about what the situation will look like after these countries become members of the EU? And: Has the Government now reviewed its thoughts on the further import of unskilled labour from outside the EEA territory?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e236	The question is probably side by side with the main question, but the Council is free to answer it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e239	At least let me make a general comment on the question. We must not lose sight of the fact that although we have increased unemployment in the last year, in the short term and in the longer term, the basic problem in Norwegian society is that we lack labour – we lack heads and we lack hands in relation to all the unresolved tasks we have around society. In order to solve this problem, we need all those who are now unemployed. We need all those who have not been included in the labour market in Norway, and in this respect it is important that we continue to work on a more inclusive working life. And we need a lot of good hands and heads from abroad. This means that our attitude to the issue of labour immigration is the same as we have had all along: it makes no sense that we have 80,000 people in Norway who go unemployed, but it is pointless because we need all of them and many more to solve the problems in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e244	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e247	My question is also addressed to the Minister of Labour and Administration. I also share the concerns raised in the previous main issues related to increasing unemployment. So there are about 80,000 people who are out of work, and we see a clear tendency that this is going to increase. 20 pst. And above that is the increase. What the Council of State did not mention in its previous reply is perhaps the most alarming, namely that long-term unemployment has increased by 42pst in a year. So the Council of State says that the main means of action he has as the Minister of Labour to help in a situation of increasing unemployment is Aetat. At the same time, it is a fact that we are entering 2003 with a historically low level in terms of the number of sites for action, despite the fact that we have an increasing unemployment rate. So my question is, does the Council of State think that the means that he has today in Aetat are adapted to the development that we actually see?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e256	As I said in the answer to the previous main question, our position is that we must at all times dimension both Aeta's own business and the action areas in such a way that we avoid creating bottlenecks in the work compared to the unemployed. Per. Today, we feel that the number of response sites is not a bottleneck in relation to the response to the long-term unemployed, immigrants and others to whom the response sites are directed, but we are beginning to approach the border. That is why I said in my first answer that I will not rule out that during the winter we will already propose an increase in the number of action places targeting precisely those groups that have the most problems in the labour market, including the long-term unemployed. At the same time, it is extremely important, perhaps even more important, that we avoid getting new groups of long-term unemployed because we do not have a good enough job with job seekers in the early phase of unemployment. That's why we've said that the main priority must be to work actively towards those groups that are now getting out of work and who have good qualifications on the way, which should have good prerequisites to get back to work quickly. The last thing these groups need is to be placed on measures. What these groups need is advice and guidance to inform themselves in the labour market; it is a job/job search course if necessary, and there is active cooperation between Aetate and private intermediaries to get them back to work. It's a disturbing development that we've gradually got some long-term unemployed people from groups that shouldn't be long-term unemployed, who should have all the prerequisites for coming back quickly, and the answer for these groups is that we have to get them out of work, not put them on the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e263	I thank you for the answer, but it's quite remarkable that the Council of State, when the new year is eight days old, starts to consider it so that the instruments that the Government has dimensioned within Aetat, may be in the process of being at the limit of what is necessary. However, it is a fact that the increasing unemployment recorded last Thursday is entirely in line with what the Government itself predicted in the national budget. Is it not then a fact that the Government has come to the Stortinget with a proposal on instruments in Aetat that are too weak, and when has the Council of State intended to come back to the Stortinget and propose new instruments?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e268	As was clear from our draft budget, we said that we would keep assessing the level of action, and we will keep assessing developments in the labour market. This means that we have constantly stated that we could come back to Stortinget with a case already before the revised national budget. What I also said during Storting's examination of the budget proposal was that it was crucial for our assessment not to count the number of people available, but the bottlenecks in the work of the job seekers. Bottlenecks may relate to the capacity of the agency to work with job seekers, and they may relate to the number of response sites compared to those in need of action. We make that assessment on an ongoing basis. We have come to the conclusion that there is too much scarcity of resources in the Aetat on the advice and guidance of the individual jobseeker. We have come to the conclusion that there is also a shortage of job-seeker training capacity. So these things we'll come back to very fast. In addition, I think it may be possible that we need to assess the level of action during the winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e273	There will be follow-up questions – Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e276	Governments repeat that there is a real need for labour and that many of the unemployed now have good qualifications. That's right. But it's not like you're going to be an assistant nurse, a nurse or a preschool teacher overnight because you're going to be a vacant building worker or an IT worker. For example, the kindergarten reform, when we implement it, will require many new employees. So it's true that many are young and newly educated, but they don't have the skills in relation to the jobs that we know most are needed in, and the big bottleneck there now might be that those who are going to hire these people don't have the money to hire, they're sitting looking for opportunities to cancel people -- it's the municipal sector and the health companies, who both now have the bad advice. But if we are to take the Council of State seriously that the major challenge ahead is to fill these important jobs, which we here in the Storting and the Government have agreed on, how has the Government intended to deal with it in the long term, so that we can get the skills we actually need?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e282	The answer to the last question is that it is primarily a question of the dimensioning and design of the education system, and I hope not that Andersen's representative believes that we should take people who might have spent three to six years in a university education in a subject area, and say to them: now you're just done with that education, but unfortunately it doesn't have any use for society, so now you're going to be a help nurse. That's not the way we're going to deal with neither individuals nor the need for labour in society. Those who have become unemployed let's say from the IT industry now, are people with qualifications that we know we need. We need them everywhere in society, and we don't have to tell these people that unfortunately, now there's a temporary decline in the activity of the IT industry, so now you have to re-train for the rest of your life and become a help nurse. It is not the approach I would recommend, and it is not the approach that society should adopt.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e287	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e290	It's important to talk about different instruments in relation to Aetate. But as the government itself said, it is essential to get the unemployed into work, and then it is much more interesting to hear what the government intends to do just to create these jobs. We know that the enterprise after the enterprise now refuses to bet, they refuse to expand, they refuse to initiate new projects, simply because the situation is uncertain, simply because there is no active enterprise policy from the Government. As the Council of State just said, it may not be recommended to ask people to retrain themselves to a completely different profession, because we know that you will need the skills. This also applies, for example, to civil servants. But in this case, the government will not grant a single penny more for road construction, which is just the competence of the works. So I'd like to hear what the government has as an ambition to create the jobs that people need.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e295	The vast majority of the jobs to be created must be created by a business that has framework conditions that make it actually profitable for business to create new jobs in Norway. The main contributions in this regard are a sensible fiscal policy, a tight fiscal policy, which the Government has been hard on and, fortunately, through cooperation with the Progress Party, has received the acceptance of the Stortinge. At the same time, there is a trend which means that we can control wage developments in Norway. In this context, the Government has a close dialogue with the social partners with a view to trying to achieve income policy cooperation which means that wage developments in the current year may be lower than we could otherwise fear. This combination of income policy and fiscal policy has already begun to produce positive results in terms of developments also at interest rate level. I expect that development will continue. In this way, the framework conditions for business will gradually improve, and more jobs will be created.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e302	Steinar Bastesen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e305	It is possible that this is a bit on the side, but I have become aware that it has been discussed in the Government that foreign seafarers can work on board foreign ships and go from port to port and do the job that Norwegian seafarers would do. Is this part of the Government's policy of creating more jobs for Norwegian citizens?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e310	The President agrees that the question lies on the side of the main question, but if the Council of State feels competent to answer it, then be so good.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e313	The Council of State does not want to comment on this! Initially, I do not want to go into the details of the regulation of access for foreign labour in individual sectors, but I refer to what was my answer to a previous question, namely that we must have as a starting point and as a perspective on the entire labour market situation in Norway that we do not have plenty of hands and heads. [[Laughter]] We have a lack of hands and heads. And if we lose sight of it, I think we're going to go completely wrong in any discussion of both industrial policy and labour market policy. If we had plenty of hands and heads in Norway, we could solve all social problems and at the same time ensure that all parts of the business got plenty of access to all the skills they needed, whether it was maritime industries or industrial industries. Our problem is the opposite. And many of the problems we have in the competitive sector in particular are due to the fact that we have such a shortage of labour that the skills and peoples are too expensive for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e320	The President will clarify – in order to avoid any misunderstanding – that he did not intend to suggest that the Council of State needs re-schooling! Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e325	My question also goes to the Council of State Norman. When the Council of State Norman joined the Government, we believed in the Progress Party that Norway had obtained a Minister of Efficiency and Conversion that could speed up public administration and slow down the uncontrolled increase that has occurred in the public sector. According to the Leadership and Quality Forum, the increase in public sector employees has been 37 per day for the last 10 years, all year round. It's an incredible number. Instead of an efficiency minister, however, we have been given a removal minister who seems to have the primary task of moving public activities from where it is today to other parts of the country. When he's also a Minister of Labour, he should probably do something other than move people around. There won't be any more jobs. Let me give you an example: the Competition Authority. Experience shows that moving on to it involves only one in ten employees, and it is a matter of reasonably specialised competence. And there can be no doubt that ownership and management of business are concentrated in Oslo. So you can lose your skills and get a longer distance. How does this make sense?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e334	I think it's sad if the representative Knudsen doesn't think we're dealing with efficiency, because we do. But let me clarify a few things that we said already when we presented the modernisation statement in the Stortingen a year ago. The aim of modernisation is not to reduce the number of public employees, but to get more and better services out of the people working in the public sector. And we're not going to measure success by any reduction in the number of people working in the public sector. We're going to measure success by the quality and extent of the public sector services that the Norwegian people offer. As regards the issue of relocation, we come back to Stortinget, in the big report on supervision to be submitted in January, with details in this connection, but let me just draw the main comment, as it seems that the representative Knudsen has not got it all with him. Norway has competence throughout the country. If we are to have effective use of resources in Norway, we need to facilitate both business and the public sector to draw on all the competences we have. Today, the main gravity of central government functions is located in the Oslo and Akershus areas. It contributes to a pressure on the competence market in Oslo and Akershus and to a under-exploitation of competences in the rest of the country that is at least not economically efficient or socially sound. So when we want to move state supervision out of Oslo, it's to get a better balance in the state's use of competences in Norwegian society. And when that's exactly the supervision we want to move out, it's because the supervision is less dependent on day-to-day contact with the rest of the central government than is the case with other parts of the central government. That reasoning and that substance is, as I assess it at least, completely consistent with good efficiency.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e342	It is interesting to note that the right now is no longer a supporter of slowing down expansion in the public sector. In the case of relocation projects, the Party of Advances considers that a move may not necessarily be an efficiency improvement, but on the contrary may be the opposite, especially in the case of highly specialised disciplines. One thing is the Competition Authority. Another example of little thoughtful policy in this area is the transfer of very specialised aviation oversight and where only a few people in Norway have that competence. Or what about the move of the State Film Authority to Fredrikstad? Much fine can be said about Fredrikstad, but it can hardly be said to be any Hollywood. What exists of the film environment in Norway must be said to be concentrated around Oslo. To me, it looks like you're blowing into the profession to show your district friendliness.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e349	The President has some doubts as to whether the opinion on Fredrikstad and Hollywood was meant as a compliment to Eastfold, or the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e352	Let me make it clear that Oslo and Akershus have a very strong competence environment in almost all areas. Looking at individual activities for individual activities, it will always be possible to argue that those activities, the special business, will have better access to skills in Oslo than elsewhere in the country. But if you follow that reasoning, the result is that all state activities must be in Oslo. As a result, the state will put pressure on the Oslo competence market, which means that all other activities will have problems recruiting people in Oslo, and at the same time, the state will contribute to ensuring that all the competences that exist elsewhere in the country become depleted. It's not a good economy. So just a little case study: the aviation environment in Bodø is an environment that accounts for about 2,500 people. There's no weak, little environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e359	There will be follow-up questions – Eirin Fallet.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e362	With regard to the removal of supervision, I agree with the Council of State that there is a great deal of good and solid labour and competence in the districts that it is necessary to make use of. Having said that, I have recorded, as we have read in the newspapers, that some supervision has been proposed well spread throughout the country. My question is whether the Council of State is aware that there is something called inland. It seems like it's not considered. So to another relationship that I think maybe is the most important thing to succeed with this. This applies to the staff to move out, who are established, who have their daily work. Now they're going to break up and move out. That's the offer. Have the state councils had sufficient contact and good cooperation with the elected trustees?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e369	The President must remember that the questions can be asked within the specified speaking time of one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e372	Even though I'm from the coast, I actually know that there's a hinterland in Norway, just to have said it. Looking at the location we have chosen for the supervision, it is right that all supervision should be placed in areas that should well be considered coastal areas. It's not a deliberate choice. It is based on an assessment of the overall and competence needs of supervision. At the same time, it is clear that the Government takes very seriously the need to attract skills and professional environments that are also found in the country, and especially in the central hinterland of the East. The government will try to find out other activities very quickly that can help to make the environments of competence in this area more a basis for state activities. With regard to the relationship with the employees, I believe that we have a very good and close dialogue with the employees' organisations, and we have set up a process around the move that means that the employees' interests should be very well cared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e381	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e384	I would first like to correct a misunderstanding with regard to the main question raised by the representative, Mr Knudsen. The question from Knudsen was addressed what the Government wants to do to make the public sector more efficient. So the answer from the government council is that you don't have any intention of resigning people in the public sector. But what was in the question of the representative of Knudsen was that it is increasing — the public sector is increasing by 37 people per year. Day, and that's big numbers. It is not the same as the Council of State is trying to get away with saying that it is going to get the most out of those already employed in the public sector. This government increases the public sector by 37 persons per year. Today, and I think that the Minister of Administration should explain that he wants to streamline and rationalise the public sector, especially the state apparatus. We know that the Government is committed to streamlining the municipal sector, but in relation to the government, the government is totally absent.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e389	I deeply disagree with the last representative Sandberg says. However, as far as the main theme is concerned, the Government has already stated clearly in the Sem Declaration that our objective is that the public sector should not grow more slowly than the economy as a whole. In the modernisation statement, we made it very clear that the large, unmet needs we have in the public sector are so important and should be given so high priority that we need all the labour we have in the public sector, and more to be able to ensure in the future that the imbalance between the expectations people have in the public sector, and what is actually being supplied, is less than it is today. Based on that, I maintain that the main ambition for the efficiency work must be that we get more and more and better services out of those who work in the public sector. I have no problem admitting that in addition, we probably need more people as well, but we should try to make the need for more people as little as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e394	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e398	The question is addressed to the Council of State Norman and on leave. In his first statement to the Stortinget he said that the worst form of waste is to let the labour force go free. Then we thought that this government would work for it to be less of that waste, but it hasn't. There's been an increase of 25 pst. Of those who are unemployed, and we also have a similar image for the disabled, for immigrants and for others who want to work. Now we experience that the government council Norman leans back and wants to talk about other things. The Minister of Economic Affairs is also leaning back when we criticize the Government for the jobs that are being laid off, and it seems that more should be done. The Minister for Energy is pleased with the current electricity policy, where the market is controlled. Reality is perceived differently around the country. It feels like what's happening is dramatic. It is not felt that there is a shortage of labour that is the major problem, but that there is a shortage of jobs. There is a misassessment of the Council of State. I would like to ask the question: is there a task for the authorities to get the number of unemployed down to the level that was when this government joined?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e409	The President will not fail to express a certain concern at the idea that a whole two state councils may risk becoming temporarily unemployed in this questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e412	Let me try to draw the central reasoning one more time. We have a great need for hands and heads in Norway. That need is partly in areas other than where we have people today. It's very worrying that unemployment is increasing. But let me make it clear that it's much more worrying if people go long off, than if they go free for a short period of time on the way from one job to another. This is why the Government's main ambition and the goal of the entire Government's efforts to make the path from one job to the next job as short and painless as possible. The whole design of our labour market policy has and has its aims. That's why we went through a painful conversion of Aetat last year to make it a better tool for the jobseekers. For the same reason, we have strengthened the resources of Aetat to help the jobseekers on their way to the next job. For the same reason, we will propose further reinforcement – job-seeker courses, etc. So the goal of this is to make the path to the next job as short as possible. Our aim is that this is what we should do through labour market policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e417	What is now said is probably what has been said all along, but it notes down that that waste brings enormous losses. It would pay for society to invest and spend money to get those losses down. The government doesn't want to be in on that. What is experienced is that there are no measures targeting those who are unemployed, targeting businesses that are struggling, and we see that the krone price is still rising. We have not received any results from the tight budget. The tapes are huge. Then we get a message from the Statistical Central Bureau today saying that 10,000 women would be in the job queue if there were opportunities for them. Probably we have more time off than what's recorded. At least I don't think the government should reject the good suggestions that come, for example. here from Stortinget, from the construction industry and from others who can take advantage of the unemployed. I ask again: does not the Council of State mean that a concrete objective is needed to tell people that here we have a government that will help with this serious problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e424	Yes, and the concrete objective is that the path from one job to the next job should be as short and painless as possible. In that regard, and I don't want to be misunderstood at this point, I think it's much worse that 2 pst. or 3 pst. are chronically unemployed than 4 pst. are unemployed for a relatively short period of time on the way from one job to the next. But anyway, unemployment is waste. But it's also wasted if we take capable people and lock them to low-productive jobs, or place them on measures instead of getting them into the jobs and in the areas where society needs them the most. Therefore, helping them into new jobs is a much more important and better strategy than trying to maintain an unviable job for them, or to pass them on by placing them on measures that they do not need.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e429	There will be follow-up questions – Odd Roger Enoksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e432	The Centre Party has proposed, in several budgetary procedures, additional resources for the civil engineering sector to ensure that the many available hands in that sector can work wisely. It has been argued in the last budgetary procedure that this is not possible. It will create so much pressure in the economy that it will force costs into the weather, and thus there will be a risk of interest rate rise and the problems it entails. Now we are in a different situation – increasing unemployment, decline in investment, continued high unemployment in the civil engineering sector. On the basis of the answers given by the Council of State to the many questions of unemployment today, I wonder: when does the Council of State see that it would be sensible to take action in this sector in order to solve the necessary tasks in the rail sector, maintenance in the railway sector, maintenance in the road sector, upgrading roads, racial protection, etc., when the Council of State now calls for detailed regulation to govern the labour market in this way? When does the Council of State think it makes sense to do so, if not now when we have increasing unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e437	I have no doubt that we could find hundreds of very good purposes in society where, by increasing the use of money, we could manage to get more people into meaningful work in the short term. But I'm not in any doubt that if government and growth were to fall on that line now, the budgetary consequences would be so that the result would be a very fast level of interest and an exchange rate that would mean that we lost at least twice as many jobs as we were able to create in this way. We must look at labour market policy and economic policy as a whole. If we do not manage to conduct credible fiscal policies, it will be impossible for us to keep both cost developments, interest rate developments and exchange rate developments under control. If we can't get these things under control, the number of jobs that disappear from the competitive sector, and the unemployment problems, especially in the districts, will be far, far worse than is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e442	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e445	In a previous response, the Council of State said that one of the important contributions from the State will be new income policy cooperation. Then it is interesting to hear a little about what the Council of State thinks the state should contribute. Will the State contribute something that, at least I believe, is productive, and go in with taxes and/or taxes as an instrument to prevent gross wage increases, which, in turn, could weaken the competitiveness of businesses? At the moment that the state of such income policy cooperation actually goes into saying that well, in order to prevent these gross wage increases now we are using taxes as an instrument, we can get a zero settlement that does not help to weaken the competitiveness of businesses, but where the state also accepts part of the bill. Is this what the Government considers in relation to possible new income policy cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e450	I believe that both the representative Jensen and the rest of the Stortinget will have a great deal of understanding that the details of things we have conversations with the organisations about in a exploratory/dialogue phase are not topics that should be discussed in Stortinget at this stage. But the main line that the representative Jensen suggests is not a line that the government believes is fruitful in relation to income policy cooperation. It is related to the fact that the type of action, which alone could have a positive effect, will have budgetary implications that could create far greater problems in the labour market than the problems it would solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e456	Øystein Hedstrom – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e459	The government is running a programme to modernise the public sector, and we've heard here today that it's the quality of service and not the number of employees in the public sector that matters the most. When we look at and compare with what is happening in the EU, it is reasonable that almost every third employee in Norway is employed in the public sector. That's about. 50 pst. higher than the EU average. This must mean that business in Norway must bear a greater burden through higher taxes and taxes in order to finance a heavy public sector. The second is that the private sector in Norway, where value creation takes place primarily, has to compete more strongly than in the EU for labour, because public Norway needs a much higher percentage of labour than the EU average. Doesn't the Council of State see it as a problem when we now need so much skilled labour, as the Government claims, in many sectors of the private sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e466	Yes, I clearly see that as a serious problem. That's the basic problem we have. We need a lot of public sector labour to meet the tasks that very many in Norway and a large majority in the United Kingdom want us to meet. At the same time, we need better access both to highly skilled labour and to a comprehensive competence for private business. For this reason, efficiency will be twice as important. Every public service we can manage to produce with less labour than today will contribute both to a better public sector and to a better private business. But what I'm saying is that we can't count on the Norwegian people turning to the imbalance between services from the public and the promises and expectations of the public that we have today. That is why we have to assume that what we are able to achieve from efficiency gains needs to be strengthened. We cannot live with the health cows, the kindergarten problems, the school problems, etc. as we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e471	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e474	I note that a unanimous opposition in Stortinget today expressed concern at the increasing unemployment rate. Of course, since the takeover of the Bondevik government, there have been 50 new unemployed people in Norway on average every day – 50 new unemployed people every day. The main response of the Government and the Advance Party has been to reduce unemployment by a total of DKK 1.5 billion a year, once the changes have been fully implemented. In the debate here in Stortinget, the Minister for Labour said: ‘It increases the pressure on the individual [...] to get into work.’ Researcher Kåre Hagen said in the NRK yesterday: ‘There are no examples that any welfare society has managed to make people work more [...] by exacerbating social systems.’ What basis does the Minister of Labour have for claiming that cutting the unemployment benefit period will make people work more quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e491	We have a lot of experience that shows that if people go out of work for more than two years, the probability that they'll ever come back to work is very, very small. If we're going to help jobseekers, that means we have a time window that probably isn't even in two years, it's much shorter than that. And that time window we have to use to help people get back. There is nothing more harmful about the possibility of getting back to work than going away for a long time. Therefore, when we proposed and passed on to Stortinget to cut the maximum daily allowance period from three to two years, it was to give the jobseeker and Aetat a clear time frame for when you had to be able to do the job of getting people back to work. The two-year period is a deadline for each jobseeker, but, as I also said in the Stortingen during the budgetary procedure, that is probably so much a deadline for Aetat. What lies in the new labour market policy is that we should have a little more stringent requirements for the job-seekers and, in return, we should clearly have stricter obligations for Aetat to follow up the individual job-seeker. The combination of slightly stricter rules and closer personal follow-up has been used in other countries, for example: in Denmark, with unusually positive results. We have a large amount of research that shows that this kind of policy brings people back to work much faster than traditional approaches, and therefore we maintain that this is a good way to help the jobseekers. So once again, for the sake of order, we haven't weakened the benefits for the ordinary jobseekers in the unemployment period, but we've reduced the period from three to two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e498	If you are unemployed, you get less pay, both if you get paid later, if you have a larger share of your work before you get out of work, if you get paid for a shorter period, if you get reduced holiday pay. This means that the rights of the unemployed have been significantly weakened – therefore also this reduction in the budget of DKK 1.5 billion on an annual basis. Allow me also to point out that I think the Minister of Labour has had a strange attitude to questions about labour market measures in today's debate. Fortunately, he now has greater transparency to see if the Government's proposals in the budget may have been wrong in terms of dimensioning, but he makes it almost like useless measures that are not of great importance to return to the labour market. But is it not precisely that the measures contribute to ensuring the link with the labour market, facilitate the return to normal work, and that labour market measures have been at the heart of Nordic labour market policies that have been successful?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e505	I have not expressed skepticism about labour market measures, but I have said that placing people with high education and good qualifications on schooling measures is meaningless. On the other hand, we need labour market measures against groups that have particular problems in the labour market, such as: long-term unemployed. What I have also said is that the dimensioning of labour market measures must not be based solely on unemployment figures; it must be based on whether or not the measures are actually a bottleneck in the work of the job-seekers. And as long as they're not a bottleneck, there's no point in increasing the volume. Therefore, we are following the ongoing situation in the market and in the establishment to see whether this constitutes a bottleneck in the work towards those groups that actually need action. And as I said, I think that during winter we can get into a situation where this becomes a bottleneck, and then we'll suggest it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e512	There will be follow-up questions - Signe Eye.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e515	In the daily newspaper of 4 January this year, the State Council of Norman refers to action areas as ‘to park people somewhere’. There is a view of places of action that are quite degrading, and it is a pity for the many thousands who have places of action and think that for a period of time there is a much better way to deal with an unemployment situation than to sit at home on the sofa. There is evidence that almost half of those who have been in action places are coming to work, because they do not lose their network. They can continue to have a dialogue with many more people than if they're just sitting at home. Therefore, in the past, we had many more areas of action compared to the unemployed. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State really think that action areas are parking people somewhere?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e520	No, of course he doesn't. But he believes that if you take well-trained, well-qualified people, who have the qualifications needed for jobs in the labour market, and place them on measures, it is to park them. And they don't deserve that. But that people who need schooling or who need in-house training to be able to work in a job come up for action, make sense to each one, and that makes sense to society. This is why we need both traditional measures and the kind of activities we now want to give greater priority to, namely job-seeker training and work in relation to the jobs that actually exist. We need both, because we have a more complex labour market than we had ten years ago. At the same time, we have increased unemployment in a situation where there are many vacancies. In this way, we can not just look at the solutions that were appropriate early in the 1990s, which were widespread use of interventions. There is room for action, but action is not alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e526	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e529	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture, who has escaped very cheaply in this spontaneous question hour. The Minister of Finance sent out a press release on 8 July last year on increased quotas for duty-free goods to Norway. Among other things, the report stated that the meat quota should be increased from three to ten kilograms. New elements have subsequently been introduced, as this quota will cover other types of food. It means a strong tightening in relation to the starting point, and many border traffickers will quickly put their heads in the ceiling of the quota. What is the Government's reason for tightening up and breaking the meat promise to many frontier-trafficking Northmen?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e536	This is under the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, but I have to admit that we have so close cooperation that I still see myself able to give an answer. It is true that after a comprehensive consultation on a regulatory change in this area, the Minister of Finance has announced that he will shortly propose a regulatory change to allow individuals to enter a duty-free quota of up to 10 kilos of food for Norway. The rules are today so that you can take 10 kilos of food, but there are limits within the 10 kilos, for example. with three kilos of meat, and there are restrictions on cheese. It shall be repealed. This means that there will be a significant simplification in the sense that one now does not distinguish between different categories — a total of 10 kilos of food. That means there will be an opportunity to take 10 kilos of meat if you prioritize it within the total quota of 10 kilos, as the government will propose in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e543	One of the reasons why the Minister of Finance changed the travel regulations was precisely a simplification of the legislation, that in the future, customs duties in the nation of Norway would not be allowed to rot in ordinary people's shopping bags. But with the system it's now being added to, that a range of food products are being added to this ticilos quota, there's still going to be enough work for customs to mess up people's shopping bags. At the same time, I feel that it is an attack on frontier-trafficking Northmen. So how do you want to enforce the new luggage regulations when the customs work is the same as before?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e548	For its part, the President would suggest that it must be difficult for customs to see differences between ordinary and unusual people.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e551	As I said, this proposal represents how it will be promoted in a short time, a simplification in the sense that together it will be ten kilograms one can take in. What a priority within the 10 kilos, customs will not need to go further. Today, there is a need to go down in the shopping bags and see what is there, in order to identify, for example, a meat fraction of three kilograms. It will be repealed by these rules. So there's going to be a simplification based on a little bit of popular saying that it can keep weighing the bag, one doesn't have to weigh individual products in the bag. So that's a simplification. However, it is also important to note that a number of issues have emerged in the consultation round that the Government wants to take into account. For example, there is a question of not having a quantitative restriction on cereal products, which could mean that one could import a significant amount of pallets with e.g. power supplies at a much lower price, which we know neighbouring countries have due to a different cereal policy. It was not the purpose of this luggage regulation, which applies to luggage and not to a truck with five–six pallets of power feed for a horse-keeper in Eastfold. But this represents a simplification, both for those who are going from Sweden to Norway with a quota, and for those who come from Spain to Norway after being brown for a holiday.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e556	The common border between Norway and Spain is probably difficult to find. There will be follow-up questions – Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e561	In many ways, the proposal that came in July was a rather remarkable one. I understand that the Government is now choosing to change the proposal. It was a proposal that would, first of all, mean that, at a time when the EU is choosing to tighten the same legislation for food safety reasons, it would be necessary to liberalise the legislation in Norway. In addition, there is a proposal that would also mean that you could import many times your own annual consumption of both meat and cheese, which then becomes a question of what rules we are going to have in relation to our own production of food. I therefore think it is positive that the government here has chosen a different approach. I think it was necessary, and I also think it is neat. But is not what one now sees from the EU, a tightening of these rules, because there is no doubt what the EU has done during the autumn? Isn't that a sign that you have to be more careful than before about freer trade and the transport of food across borders, precisely because it can lead to both animal diseases and food scandals, as we've seen in the last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e568	The legislation of the EU, inter alia: has had the possibility that an outside EEA could have taken over the national border, for example. one kilogram of meat, suspended, taking into account the possibility of introduction of infection. This rule was also automatically applied to Norway. So the 1-kilo limit one has had to include goods from distant strokes into Norway, has now also been lifted in Norway from 1 January this year, as a consequence of the EU having done so, because we are in the EEA legislation. Derogations have been made for the EU's candidate countries, where there will still be an opportunity to import a quota into the EU, and thus to Norway, on one kilogram of meat or one kilogram of food. This means that more is to be taken than this, a veterinary certificate must be kept at the border, which is quite common when countries need to protect themselves against diseases. For example, between Canada and the United States, there is a similar rule, which requires a veterinary certificate for any attempt to cross-border feed. It has also been introduced for Norway, with these exceptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e573	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e576	I would like to address a question that concerns something that the government has only had to assess. In fact, there has been a formal, official press release from the Minister of Finance saying both the change to be made and the time from which it is to be implemented. The government's envoy raises at least two questions. First, there will be more imports of meat, according to the change that happens in relation to what was announced. But won't the change in relation to previous values actually mean that you'll now be able to introduce less of some other food products than you could before, with the weight limit that you're now pulling up? The second is, how does the government think that the people who have acted in relation to an official press release from the government's finance minister should act, people who can now suddenly be punished for illegal imports?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e584	The question of hustle and bustle must certainly be sorted by the Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e587	That view also shares the view of the Minister of Agriculture. A press release was sent in connection with a draft regulation being sent out at the hearing. There has been a comprehensive consultation round. There have been many important views that the Government sees need to take into account in the context of the new regulation in this area, which is due in a short time. I've had a conversation with the Minister of Finance today. He has announced that in a few days it will come such a prescription. On the basis of that, I can say that there will be a regulation that will catch up with that problem, and that you will be able to clarify the misunderstanding that must have arisen in the first few days of January, believing that this has been a limit, but the Minister of Finance himself will have to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e592	The time for the oral question procedure is now over. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e597	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Bjørn Jacobsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has been withdrawn. Question 5, from the representative of Rolf Terje Klungland to the Minister for Oil and Energy, lapses, as the questioner is not present. Question 6, from Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Transport who directs him. Question 8, from the representative Kari Lise Holmberg to the municipal and regional minister, is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 9, from the representative of Marit Nybakk to the Minister of Defence, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e625	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e631	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: «The acquisition by the Member States of hospitals resulted in an increase of State taxes of 4.8 p.m., while local government taxes were reduced accordingly. Employees of the Nordic countries are not covered by the compensatory relief in municipal taxes, and this group has thus been increased by 4.8 pst. Is the Council of State prepared to contribute to a similar increase in the framework of the special agreement applicable to this group?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e640	For general employees in Norway, there is a fixed framework for the total tax of general income to the State, county and municipality. This framework, which is now 28 p.m., implies that changes in the tax rate must be compensated by corresponding changes in the tax rates of the municipality and/or county, and vice versa. However, persons serving abroad with Norwegian government salaries are exempt from paying taxes to municipalities and county councils and are therefore only required to pay national taxes. One consequence of this is that state-paid foreign workers are directly affected by changes in government tax rates and that the total tax on these persons can be changed for purely technical reasons, as was the case for 2002, when the State took over hospitals and the Storting therefore increased the tax rate. Moreover, changes in the tax level of these persons are not new and the tax rate has changed every year since 1994. An example of change in favour of the out-workers was the decrease in the government tax rate for 2001 to 8.9 p.m., while for the previous year it was 10.35 p.m. After the increase in the rate for 2002 to 13.7 p.m. it has been reduced for 2003 to 11,76 pst. Where this group is exempt from the taxes which are complementary to the national tax on residents within the framework of the overall general income tax rate, special arrangements may need to be introduced if a fixed tax level is to be introduced for the outbound workers as well. In my view, it would be a step in the wrong direction to further complicate the tax system by, for example, introducing different tax rates for different groups of taxpayers. The specific agreement referred to in the question compensates for the additional costs of service abroad and benefits are not subject to taxation. Therefore, it is not appropriate to compensate for the tax conversion over this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e653	I thank the Minister of Finance for the answer, which I think was thorough. It was an answer that was not to be misunderstood. It is clear, as the Government now sees, that no compensation will be provided for this increase in the taxation of those now stationed abroad. I believe that the Minister of Finance does not intend to wait for a further tax debate on this in Stortinget regarding the signals here, but, if necessary, to compensate for this increase in taxation for foreign employees by means of special agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e660	I see it as a reasonably good summary of my answer. In the second week of January, we have to base the tax decisions that are now being taken for 2003. I showed in my reply that the tax rate has gone up and down, so that in the long term it is not particularly new that this affects the economy in relation to people who work for the country abroad. That it has gone in both directions, I guess we don't do anything on this occasion either. It is as well-known changing governments that have undergone changes in the tax rate up through the 1990s.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e665	Would the Nordtun representative like further comment?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e668	My short comment is that if such a change is to happen, it has to happen here in the Storting. We're going to have to get back to that. I also look forward to a discussion in connection with the large tax conversion that we have ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e673	I can only want to look forward to future tax debates on the basis of the big picture that Stortinget has asked for on the basis of the position of the Skauge Committee, which is due on the last day of January, and the notification will be prepared on that basis. However, before the notification comes, there is also a wide-ranging consultation round where several people have the opportunity to express themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e681	I want to ask the Minister of Health a question: ‘Tobacco use is a very serious health problem and the fight against tobacco use needs to be pursued at many levels. This applies, inter alia, to: Weaning for those who are already users and prevention for those who are not yet smokers. It is important that young people do not start smoking. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the age limit for the purchase of tobacco is respected?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e690	Helping young people to avoid tobacco is essential for not the next generation to smoke as much as the adult generation does today. In order to change the smoking pattern among young people, it is also necessary to change the attitudes of the adult society towards smoking. I therefore consider it very important to pursue a comprehensive tobacco-injury prevention policy that takes on different types of instruments, targeting both children, young people and adults. Last Monday the largest and most intensive tobacco campaign ever started in Norway. The aim of the campaign is to inform the population about the adverse effects of smoking and to provide help to those who want to quit. At the same time as the campaign starts, the Social and Health Directorate has also upgraded the smoking end-offers in order to provide better help to those who will stop. The age limit for tobacco sales was raised from 16 to 18 years with effect from 1 January 1996. Studies carried out prior to this amendment showed that children aged 13–15 years did not have problems in obtaining tobacco. One of the objectives of increasing the age limit was to increase the effectiveness of enforcement against this age group. According to the annual surveys by the Statistical Central Bureau on smoking habits, the 18-year limit has not led to a decrease in the proportion of smokers among teenagers. In order to investigate the enforcement of the age limit, a country-wide monitoring of the sources of tobacco consumption among minors was carried out in the autumn of 1998. The results showed that 75 pst. of the tobacco consumed by 13-17-year-olds was purchased by the minors themselves, and 70 pst. reported that they were not asked about age when they bought or tried to buy tobacco. In this context, I invited the negotiators’ organisations to implement measures to improve the enforcement of the age limit. This request was followed up, among others. information on the age limit from the industry itself to the individual dealer. In 1999, sales outlets were largely equipped with signs showing that the law prohibits the sale of tobacco to persons under the age of 18 and where the purchaser is asked to show a licence if he or she is under the age of 23. After nearly two years of activities with dealer information, the study on youth sources of supply was repeated. Despite the fact that the teenagers this time reported a somewhat higher experience of purchasing control by being asked about their age and required identification, the level of self-sufficiency was the same. In the light of these studies, the State Tobacco Injury Board proposed to the Ministry that the retail trade in tobacco should only be made by those who have received a sales licence. The purpose of such a scheme is to allow the licence to be withdrawn if tobacco is sold to persons under 18 years of age. On 9 August 2001, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health of the then Minister of Health, Tore Tønne, sent out a consultation note proposing various amendments to the Tobacco Injury Act. The Tobacco Injury Council’s proposal for a licensing regime was presented, but the Ministry concluded in the consultation note at the time that it would not propose such a scheme, including: because the municipalities would incur significant financial and administrative costs. Effective enforcement of the age limit for tobacco will be an important contribution to reducing tobacco use among young people. However, it is important not to introduce new mechanisms that lead to increased red tape. On this basis, I would like to entrust the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Health with the task of assessing how a possible authorisation system for the sale of tobacco can be designed. This study must look at the experience gained from the authorisation system for the sale of alcohol and include supervision and coordination.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e705	I agree with the Minister of Health in his offensive against the use of tobacco and give my full support for it. I understand from the answer that the Minister of Health, through various instruments, wants to maintain the pressure against this that young people do not start smoking. That's why I raised the question. In the debate on smoking withdrawal, a rapid loss of focus on perhaps the most important thing: preventing us from recruiting new smokers. This is a serious health problem in Norway today — and may be so in the future. It is very regrettable — when you hear such figures as the Minister of Health refers to in the Grand Duchy today — that so many people get to buy tobacco when they are under the age they are allowed to do so. And there's no way to punish those who buy. That is why I ask the Minister for Health: Is it conceivable that one can deprive one who sells tobacco, the right to sell tobacco, when one sees such repeated violations – which are actually background to investigations?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e714	Let me first say that I fully agree with the representative of Asmund Kristoffersen that preventing the recruitment of new smokers is a very important part of the tobacco policy here in the country. The proposal to ban smoking in catering facilities now located in Stortinget will remove an important recruitment area for new and young smokers. With regard to the sale of tobacco, the very question of an authorisation scheme, which I now warn the Directorate to investigate, will have the intention of withdrawing the authorization if there are serious breaches of the prerequisites for such an authorisation. But here we need to look at control possibilities and administrative and economic consequences before we take a stand for any such scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e721	I agree with the Minister of Health about what he was about in his first answer, that one should not put in place large bureaucratic mechanisms to exercise control. We can't have it that way. However, when one sees that raising the age limit has not led to improvement in the way young people buy tobacco, it suggests that the measures must be relatively clear. I believe – and would stress – that the responsibility lies with the person who sells tobacco. It is then right to consider, as the health minister now advertises, a form of licence, where the possibility of withdrawing a sales permit may be greater than today. But I see that this takes time. Once again, I would like to ask the Minister for Health: with regard to measures against those who sell tobacco illegally, is it also conceivable that a person can consider fines?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e728	We want to use the legal rules on supervision and control, also in relation to this part of the tobacco regime. But there are 15 000 to 18 000 outlets, and the ability to exercise effective supervision is particularly challenging in this area. I would like to remind you that there is now a legislative proposal in Stortinget that the supervision of the provisions of the Tobacco Injury Act could be delegated to an inter-municipal body. What we will look at on the issue of an allocation system is whether one can organise supervision more effectively, for example. intermunicipal and coordinated with e.g. supervision of the provisions of the Alcohol Code.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e739	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘We have laws to ensure immediate health care for the population when necessary. The health company is now making considerable cuts in the ambulance offer to the inhabitants of Larvik and Lardal. Does the Council of State believe that this ensures life and health and that the law of immediate assistance is respected?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e748	In the governance document of the regional health enterprises for 2003, the Ministry of Health requires all regions to assess the organisation of the emergency medical chain. Such an assessment must take place in the light of planned structural measures and changes in the division of tasks in the region and focus on ensuring the professionally sound provision of emergency medical services to the population. This includes, inter alia: availability and response time in AMK centres, appropriate mechanisms for base structure, response times, resource utilisation and competence requirements in the ambulance service. Health South is already in the process of such a review of the emergency medical chain, including the offer in Westfold. The hospital in Vestfold HF has today established an ambulance with nine daily ambulances and two day ambulances covering the county. In the context of a saving requirement for 2003, the health care provider has decided to adjust the ambulance standby by converting a daily car into a day-car. The trade community has concluded that this adjustment will be most easily implemented in Larvik. The main reason for this is that Larvik Hospital will continue to be an immediate help hospital, until the hospital in Tønsberg is completed. The ambulances in Larvik will thus be able to be released more quickly after assignment than in cities without an emergency hospital. Furthermore, the health business argues that the distance to other stations is relatively short, between 30 and 50 kilometres. Larvik and Lardal will be able to have ambulances from Sandefjord, Holmestrand, Porsgrund and Skien in the event of cohabitation. The health company itself believes that through good coordination, including: a car from Sandefjord is sent in a standby position in Larvik when the larval car is long out, thereby minimising the reduction in standby. Health South has decided that Telemark and Vestfold should be merged into one prehospital area, with a joint AMK centre and ambulance service. This will further facilitate the coordination and exploitation of ambulance resources across stations. It is worth noting that Health South in its strategy for providing emergency medical services is not based on county boundaries, but sees the region as a whole, which is the intention of the hospital reform. In order to ensure the quality of the offer made, Health South has chosen the ambulance response time as a quality indicator to be reported. If it turns out that Larvik and Lardal have a lower coverage than other municipalities in the health region, Healthy Sør informs them that they will instruct the Hospital in Westfold to strengthen preparedness. Health South is responsible for these services under the Health Business Act. Health Sør's assessment is that the plan and quality assurance of the ambulance service in Larvik and Lardal to which it is referred will provide a satisfactory offer to the affected population. However, I can inform you that the supervisory authorities, i.e. the County Doctor and the Health Authority will monitor and assess the impact of these changes in the service offer. The county doctor intends to ask the entity to explain some questions before the implementation of this measure, as planned on 1 March of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e761	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It has been raised beyond doubt that quick and proper treatment saves lives and reduces damage. In St.meld. No 43 for 1999-2000 it was proposed to have a call-out time of 12 minutes in built-up areas. I don't think you want to deal with one car after normal working hours in Larvik and Lardal. The Board of the Hospital in Vestfold has decided that preparedness reduction should be a pilot scheme to be evaluated after six months. This is an experimental system that will mean life or death for Larviks and Lardal's people, who become test people. It reminds us of criteria for experimenting with people that we don't like to think about. It is close to comparing the experiment with medical research. Today, medical research in the world generally carries out ethical assessments leading to the interruption of trials under certain conditions. Larvik will be the country's remotest populous town with only one ambulance after working hours. [[President clubs]] How can one allow such an experiment to be started with the population when it would have been possible to make the records that would have given the answers unambiguously, without jeopardising human life? [[President clubs]] And is this within acceptable ethical principles for medical research?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e772	The President will recall that the speaking time for supplementary questions is 1 minute and must be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e775	There are premisses in this supplementary question that I have to take a sharp distance from. This is not an attempt at human life as an effort, as the representative Rui here claims. It is the Hospital in Westfold that is legally responsible for assessing and ensuring that the requirement of soundness is met, and the health company has assessed that it is. Then we have supervisory authorities in Norway who are responsible for ensuring compliance with the requirement of soundness, regardless of hospital administrators. I have informed here today that the county board in Vestfold will ask specific questions about the scheme that is planned to be implemented from 1 March. And I take it for granted that the county doctor, as an independent supervisory authority, will inform you if the county doctor is of a different opinion from the health care company as to whether this is appropriate and in accordance with the requirements of the law. As the chief responsible for health policy in this country, I have to deal with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e782	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. We – all the parties in Stortinget – have been told by healthcare companies around the country that they have a tight economy. For today’s government, it has been important to provide tax relief to those who are the richest in Norway. In 2003, a few people receive DKK 12.7 billion in tax relief. It might have been prioritized differently, ask me. But I'm not in government. I think you gamble with the security of the people of Larvik and Lardal, and that you actually put tax relief higher than the security of the sick. As I understand the Minister of Health so far, he does not intend to bring any more money to health companies so that the situation could be changed in Larvik and Lardal before 1 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e791	The President will recall that the purpose of the Question Time is to ask questions and to answer them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e794	This is not the place for a fiscal debate between Mr Rui and myself. But I would like to remind you that a substantial part of the tax reliefs the representative Rui refers to, was proposed and given his consent to the party she herself represents. Then I have to say that it would be alarming if the Health Minister in Stortinget on 8 January – i.e. eight days into the new fiscal year – had announced new appropriations to health companies in addition to what the Stortinget decided just before Christmas. So I haven't done that, and I don't intend to do that either. On the other hand, what I intend to do is to exercise the overall responsibility I have for the proper functioning of healthcare in Norway. I have two tools to ensure that. One is the responsibility I have placed on the authorities responsible for health companies to comply with the law. The second is the independent control of the supervisory authorities that it actually does. Both instruments are in use in relation to this case. With this starting point, there is no reason to spread fear about such a change in the offer to which this is added.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e813	This question lapses, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e819	This question, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Transport who directs the person.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e822	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In Hedmark, as in the rest of the country, many self-employed people depend on setting up signs to show the way to their activities, but most often the application is rejected. Does the Council of State see the need for such signs in order for both companies and districts to be able to live on what they produce?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e831	Road authorities approve and set up a large number of signs for businesses and institutions each year. Each case is assessed and decided on the basis of local circumstances and established guidelines. Appeals may be brought against the decision of the Directorate of Roads, which assesses whether the decision is in accordance with applicable guidelines and practices. The requirements for signage to different establishments are very numerous, and road authorities need to carefully assess the need for signage so that the amount of signage in each crossroads is kept at an appropriate level. Service signs and road signs shall facilitate the detection of business customers, but shall not primarily be the marketing of the enterprise. If marketing were to be essential, road authorities would quickly find themselves in an impossible situation in relation to non-discrimination and competition considerations, and the signage could be immeasurable. Therefore, purely marketing reasons are not the subject of the assessment of road identification signs. After today’s practice, roadside guides in their own way from the public road are recognised in most cases if it is difficult to see the activity off the road. However, companies often also want more signage into the road network, cross-border between public roads. Setting up all the signs of business and other wishes will go beyond the roadside overview, which could be dangerous for traffic. Road authorities must therefore set limits. As a general rule, the current guidelines provide for local roadside guidance to be allowed only in the nearest crossroads. In these places, priority must often be given to the geographical roadside route that is aimed at all road users and the local area, which is aimed at a limited group. It will always be possible to discuss where to draw the limit for local roadside guides to different enterprises and businesses. Road authorities shall not be more restrictive than necessary and must therefore keep under constant review whether current practices are at the right level. This year, the Road Directorate will start a full review of the technical legislation for the use of public traffic signs, and the guidelines for road signs will then be reviewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e846	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Originally, this was a question to the Minister of Industry. At least that's what I was thinking, because this is about industry, showing what the individual self-employed and the districts can offer. But I am fully aware that signage is a matter that is the responsibility of the Minister of Transport. It is clear that this is about jobs. These include: on the maintenance of local cultural services and landscapes, it is about the future of districts by getting more legs to stand on, and it is about making good visibility of a good rural policy, to which all of us politicians want to contribute. Of course, I am aware that signage should not be at the expense of road safety either. However, road safety is also a matter of finding people — those who are driving — so as to avoid traffic from time to time, including: in relation to tourists. This must also be taken into account. And there might have something to say to the council.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e857	It is quite right, as is said here, that there is a balance between being able to find out the businesses, the businesses that you want to find out, and taking into account road safety. For me, as Minister of Transport, the issue of road safety is very important. That's why I'm skeptical that we use too much signage in areas that have nothing to do with traffic itself. At the same time, as I said, it's important that we be able to figure out what we want to figure out. To be able to present to the world what local businesses and local businesses and cultural businesses have to do, we might try to meet other ways than by signposting along the road. But it's important that we find out what we want to figure out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e862	It is clear that signage is important for people to find out, and to show what they have to offer. So I have this question of follow-up: Is the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Industry going to cooperate on this? Originally, the question was intended for the Minister of Industry, while the Minister of Transport answered. Then is my follow-up question: Will there be close, good cooperation between these two?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e867	In the case of road signs, it is mainly below my department, because it has to do with the traffic conditions. At the same time, I see the challenges that this refers to, and that we also have to take inwards. It will be part of the work of both the Road Directorate in its revision of guidelines, and not least in its ongoing work. So there will always be a local challenge more than a challenge in relation to two expert councils which priorities to make. It's about local priorities: what does the sign look like along the road? Is there a lot of signs in the first place? Is it going to be or isn't it going to be an unbridled traffic image? Such considerations must be taken into account and they must be taken locally in the specific cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e879	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘The traffic and environmental problems of the Moss-Horten ferry link are significant. Until a new port route through Moss is established, immediate solutions are needed, including: additional parking space because this is largely located in the streets of the city. Information boards at the E6 exit warning about queue problems and delays are also missing. What will the Council of State contribute to improving conditions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e888	Pending a new Moss port road, the State Road Service, in consultation with the police, shipping company and Moss port services, discussed possible measures. It is set of an area in the port services area that can serve as a backup site in extreme situations. There have also been problems with row 19 driving due to capacity problems at ticketing or due to full parking spaces. This problem has decreased since the introduction of a third ferry in the connection, but may still occur if one of the ferries is out of service, or at large traffic peaks, for example. for exit days. The ticketing, which is done electronically, depends on taking place from the two ticket kiosks for which space has been found on today's area. A clearer marking of these will be made to ensure full exploitation of both kiosks. During periods of capacity problems in the ferry connection, this is notified on radio from the Road Traffic Centre. In the case of any signboards at E6 that indicate queues, this has been discussed but found not to be appropriate. The effect of such a near-warning is low in relation to the information disseminated as road traffic message over radio. I expect that the measures now to be taken to improve the traffic situation in Moss in connection with ferry traffic will provide an improvement in the period until we have a permanent road solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e899	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Now we've just got new numbers on the traffic over Oslofjorden, with the ferry connection Moss-Horten. It turns out that traffic is increasing sharply, so I suspect and believe that the measures that the Council of State is now sketching will be far from sufficient to remedy the negative conditions we are experiencing today, in a satisfactory way. This is one of the country's most heavily trafficked ferry services, and there is a lot of heavy traffic. What we're experiencing -- I've been a moss citizen myself for a few years now -- is that Moss City is being strangled in this way. Holiday queues are significant, and car parking spaces are missing. The result will then be a halt, and also a stop in the streets of the city with the traffic and road safety problems that this could cause. [[The President clubs.]] The ferry link is important, and it is important not to choose other solutions for environmental reasons because it saves roads and because emissions are reduced. Does the Council believe that the measures she has now outlined will be sufficient to provide Moss with a satisfactory solution pending a new road link? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e908	The President must ask for the speaking time to be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e911	I believe that the measures I have now mentioned will improve the traffic situation in Moss. I also have expectations that the situation will improve significantly in relation to what has happened. It's absolutely right that this is an important ferry connection, where there's a lot of traffic. That's why we also have to find a good permanent solution. There are two works that have to go parallel. We must work on the permanent solution, and we must constantly look at remedial measures along the way, so that the situation becomes acceptable to the travellers and to the inhabitants of Moss.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e918	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. I fully agree that there must be two thoughts in your head at the same time, but nevertheless it is a state responsibility to ensure that you have good solutions, i.e. parking and parking spaces, and that the State Road Service and the ferry company have to find out about this. Before you have a permanent road solution, it can take years. In many other parts of the country, I see that the State Road Service has provided enough car parking places, so that this works satisfactorily. I would like to ask the Council of State: what criteria are used when priorities are given by the State in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e927	There are different challenges in different places in the country in terms of ferry and car traffic related to ferry traffic. The challenges you face will be partly different, but they can still be quite precarious. In every single place, we will constantly try to find solutions to the challenges you face. With regard to solutions around the country, I cannot come up with general criteria, because the challenges are so different. In Moss we have some concrete challenges that we're trying to solve for the benefit of the travellers and for the inhabitants, based on the situation there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e955	These questions are postponed until the next Question Time, when the Councils have gone away.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-08.ana.ud1510e966	There is no record.
