ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e51	The representatives of Rune J. Skjellaaen, Lena Jensen and Trond Giske, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of André Kåkkestad on leave on 13 and 14 May to attend a meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Kiev from the representative of Magne Aarøen on sick leave from 13 May until further notice These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Akershus County, Harald Espelund, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative André Kukkestad on 13 and 14 May, for reasons of well-being. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternates of Akershus County, Ib Thomsen, are currently abroad and are therefore prevented from meeting in Stortinget under the permission of the representative André Kukkestad. The Vara representatives, for Akershus County Maria Hoff and for Sogn and Fjordane County Per Steinar Osmundnes, are proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Maria Hoff and Per Steinar Osmundnes are present and will take the seat. On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the scheduled weekly programme for the current week be amended so that, on Thursday 15 May at the end of the Annual General Meeting, the minutes of the Odelstinget meeting are held. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e110	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament on Tuesday and Wednesday – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e115	I suggest Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e120	Mr. Øyvind Halleraker has been proposed as President-in-Office. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings on Tuesday and Wednesday.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e139	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e150	At the same time as last year's government presented its proposal to the government budget, they also presented St.meld. No 6, Action Plan against Poverty. The reason for the coincidence at the time of the presentation was that the concrete proposals in the action plan against poverty were included in the Government's draft budget. Thus, the action plan’s proposals for new initiatives in 2003 have already been adopted by the Storting through the examination of the State budget. What, then, is the basis for the Committee's comprehensive position and, consequently, of today's discussion in the Storting? Yes, the action plan gives the obvious: the fight against poverty cannot be implemented once and for all. The Government makes it clear that the action plan will be followed up in relation to the annual government budgets. In this way St.meld gives. No 6 Widespread discussion of important road choices in the fight against poverty. At the same time, the Stortinge gives an opportunity to concreteise this important work in addition to what has been proposed by the Government. The attitude is marked by the fact that the Committee is thoroughly discussing how the welfare society is to grips with the fact that, despite a formidable material prosperity development for most of us, many Nordics still live in poverty, not a poverty marked by hunger and disease, but a poverty marked by a clearly lower standard of living than that of the majority, and not least a poverty that characterizes many children who cannot participate in the social and leisure activities in which friends and classmates can participate, to be poor among all the seemingly successful. In 2000, there were about 120,000 people in this country who had so low incomes that they were defined as poor according to the definition used by the Government in the Single European Act. I assume that the individual party grouping would prefer to account for its position itself. Therefore, as the rapporteur-in-Office, I am not going to initiate the various assessments and positions that emerge in the vote. Therefore, in the rest of my article, let me concentrate on the views of the Workers' Party. It is important to take the poverty problem with the greatest seriousness. At the same time, it is important to find that, if any, countries have fewer poorer than we have in Norway. So we have a big challenge, but it's obvious that a lot of what we've done has been good. We must learn from this. Over the course of a century, Norway has evolved from one of Europe’s poorest countries to one of the richest countries in the world. The great majority no longer live in misery and distress, but in wealth and wealth. How has this been possible? Of course, mainly because during this time the nation has created great values. We have gone from the agricultural community to the industrial community to the knowledge society. In particular, the post-war period is marked by an adventurous development in value creation, not least after the first oil was found in the North Sea more than 30 years ago. But many other countries have also created large values without having managed to combat poverty in the same way that we have done in Norway. Why? Well, because Norwegian policy has not only been about creating, but also about sharing. The large values have provided the basis for a distribution policy in which the community has taken responsibility for broad welfare systems. This has largely eliminated the historical links between unemployment and poverty, between sickness and poverty and between old age and poverty. The welfare systems provide individual safety. Security is the basis of freedom. The welfare systems don't make all people the same, but create equivalency and equal opportunities. The professional and political movement of labour has a vision of creating a society that does not create poverty. All shall have access to the arrangements of the Community. The funding shall be provided through a joint taxation system. The target has not been reached, but the path to the target does not pass through smaller communities. This policy has always been met with scepticism and resistance among the bourgeois parties. Individuals themselves have a significant responsibility to avoid poverty, it is claimed. The broad welfare systems restrict the freedom of individuals because they seize large financial resources from individuals. The alternative must therefore be more narrow schemes that capture the individual. Society cannot avoid the creation of poverty, but society has a responsibility for the poor. It has always been the attitude of the bourgeois parties. The current political situation is marked by this contrast. The Sem Declaration sets out the objective of significant tax relief. In order to finance this, it is necessary to limit the wide range of welfare schemes. Individual care must be taken by means of a need-to-know test. The government batches in the setting try to turn away from this context by saying that the need test is to be complementary to the Community solutions. But political reality overtakes the parties of government. The action plan against poverty is worth 335 million in 2003. kr. At the same time, the same parties pursue policies in which Community solutions are weakened by much, much more. Now it's just the minimum pensioners who have to let go of paying the abstinence for drugs on the blue prescription. The unemployed are not allowed leave for three years, but for two years. The unemployed do not need holiday pay. It's just the really poor kids who are going to get free textbooks in high school. Engraving help for all is done. In a start-up phase, the disabled should not get as much as they do now. And the last example we got when Jon Lilletun wanted to test child welfare. But the dividend tax is going to go away. These are not dramatic changes, but they indicate a direction, a road map — a road map that has also led the government to seem to have got its eyes up on the dramatic increase in unemployment. And despite the fact that the government itself says that the most important way to combat poverty is to get people to work. When the government took over in the autumn of 2001, there were about 60,000 unemployed in this country. Now it's over 100,000. All indications suggest that the number of poor people has increased since the government presented its action plan against poverty. I will not, on behalf of the Workers' Party, strike my chest and say that the welfare community is working perfectly. We in the Workers' Party have every reason to be proud of what we have done, but we must not be content. The welfare community is not further built by weakening the community. The welfare society is then replaced by the charity society. We will fight this with all our strength. I have chosen to take an overall perspective in my article. That is why I have not commented on any of the individual suggestions that have been made in the vote. Let me, however, finally address all the proposals in which the Labour Party is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e186	The representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e189	The government has focused on poverty. For the first time after World War II, the level of poverty in Norway is documented, while proposing comprehensive measures to combat poverty. The big city message submitted on 9 May shows that the number of households in Oslo living with extremely low incomes has doubled in the last 14 years. A small greeting to the previous speaker: It is the Workers' Party that has essentially controlled those years. While we live in a welfare society and most in Norway are doing well, the latest OECD figures show that Norway has the most poor children's families in the Nordic region. This shows that despite the fact that we have many broad welfare systems in Norway, we are experiencing increasing poverty. In contrast to the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, the Right and Government therefore believe that today’s challenges require more targeted and individualised schemes, schemes that give priority to those who actually need help, rather than giving a little to everyone. For the Government, families with children are a priority target group. The government has taken action to capture young people dropping out of high school. In the right, it is serious that a large number of high-level students have not had access to adequate healthcare over a long period of time. Upgrading school health services and health centres for young people are important measures to prevent and prevent withdrawals from secondary education. In order to avoid the exclusion of poor children from important social arenas, the housing support scheme for families with children has improved, and the support supplement for solitude in education has been increased. At the same time, grants have been granted for metropolitan activities and increased grants for youth work. Measures for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance and qualifying measures for immigrants have been reinforced. The same is true of the follow-up of the homeless. Action against poverty through voluntary organisations has also been strengthened by this government. In contrast to former workers’ party governments, the Cooperation Board, in the context of a consultation note on the quality standards of the hospices, has determined that the hospice should not be used for children. In 1997, there were 250 children living at the hostel in Oslo. After Oslo municipality at the right-hand town council cleared up, it was per year. the end of 2002 zero children living at the hospital in Oslo. The safest way out of poverty is work. Measures to help more people to self-sufficiency through their own work are therefore a priority in the action plan. The objectives of the poverty action plan are consistent with the objectives of St.meld. No 14 for 2002–2003, Coordination of Aetat, Social Security and Social Services. Both messages focus on the need for better welfare services so that more people can support themselves through work. It is therefore very regrettable, especially when unemployment is increasing, that the majority of the Committee will send St.meld. No 14, SATS, back to the department. Delaying the processing of SATS will prevent faster and better organisation to help people to work or take active action. The causes of poverty are many and complex; often weak or unconnected with the labour market is the main cause. This in turn may be due to lack of education, physical and mental health problems or drug problems. Most of those living in poverty have resources that can be used. It is therefore important to meet people with both demands and respect, while jointly seeking to find safe and individual solutions. Measures through the psychiatry plan and drug reform will also be important tools to help many to cope better with everyday life. The action plan against poverty is the first step in a long-term, systematic and targeted effort over the planning period. Close follow-up and increased commitment to research are provided, and an action evaluation will provide the basis for a knowledge-based effort in the coming years. I'm addressing the proposal that we together with the Christian People's Party have promoted in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e217	The representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e220	In connection with the promotion of St.meld by the Government in October 2002. No 6, which we now have for treatment, it might seem that the Government had relatively high ambitions in combating poverty. It's just to hope that one doesn't put the list so high that one doesn't have the opportunity to achieve the desired result in the immediate future. In this regard, it is worth noting the Government’s vision in this message, which states: ‘The government’s vision is that no one should live in poverty in Norway. On the basis of this Action Plan, the Government will implement measures to combat poverty in Norway.’ I think it might be hard to find someone who would disagree with this goal. But when one goes into the message itself, one does not always manage to get what is the recipe itself to achieve the government's goal. The message itself has a lot of words and little action and suggestions for solutions. There is a lot of talk in the communication on labour market measures, but it is not suggested to give priority to some groups in front of others. It is a well-known case that lack of work is an important reason why many people have a difficult economic situation over a shorter or longer period of time. But from there to go to the step unilaterally defining any person who has a lower income than a set percentage of median income, as poor, is partially derailing the poverty debate. The majority of the Committee promotes a number of different proposals spanning several sectors and areas. In this context, inter alia: mention is made of a number of proposals on various housing measures and special schemes for immigrants and refugees. The Progress Party participates in part of the proposals that have been made in addition to what has been promoted by the Government. But we have also chosen to stand outside part of these proposals with backgrounds in particular. it notified the housing notification to the Storting and in the case of an introduction programme for immigrants and refugees. In view of this, it is possible that the Progress Party here in Stortinget could, on a later occasion, be in favour of the intention of any of these proposals, but the Progress Party would like to see these matters in a context and not be taken into account in the discussion of this Communication. What surprises most when you look at both the committee’s setting and the message itself is that you do not take inwards that perhaps the largest proportion of those who can be characterised as poor in Norway are almost not mentioned in the notification. These include: the many pensioners who have no other means of living than a minimum pension. A minimum pensioner who has no wealth, who likes to live in a rented dwelling and has high medical costs and other expenses, including: to electricity, will not be able to cope without further raising of the minimum pension. What's the biggest problem with this group is that they find themselves in almost everything and therefore don't complain. This is a problem that one also has to take inwards and take seriously. There are a number of people who are struggling with a satisfactory economic situation also in Norway, which is actually one of the richest countries in the world. We can't solve everyone's problems in this message, but the Progress Party wants to send a signal that we need to give priority to children, sick people and others who don't have the opportunity to get a salary.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e242	Our country has experienced strong economic growth and a significant development of wealth over the last decade, probably unparalleled in Norwegian history. But this wealth growth is not equally distributed. Some have become vastly richer in a very short time, while others have not been part of this increased wealth. Over time, this has resulted in greater economic and social differences in Norway today than in a very long time. The newspaper published the results of a survey carried out by the Statistical Central Bureau on Thursday 8 May this year, which shows that the number of poor in Oslo has more than doubled from 1986 to 2000, and that 40,000 people living in Oslo had income below the poverty line in 2000. The main policy objective of the SV is to balance the differences between people and achieve a fairer distribution of goods, both nationally and internationally. We do that because we are fully convinced that small economic and social differences are a vital prerequisite for the development of a good and safe society for all. Throughout the 1990s, SV pointed out this development, and we continue to do so because the development of Difference Norway in recent years has shot even more speed. Those who have the most from before are getting more and more – a lot more – and those who have the difficulty and struggle to get the ends to meet are increasingly lagging behind. And the numbers from the SSB confirm this very clearly. It does not accept poverty, in any country, and especially in Norway, which has better conditions than any other in order to prevent poverty from emerging and developing. All the most outrageous is the fact that poverty very often affects children. It is totally unbearable and, in addition, totally unnecessary for tens of thousands of children to live in poverty in the world's richest country. It should therefore be completely unnecessary for a government in the rich Norway to present a big message about poverty, but that is the way it is. It is important that it comes, but SV is disappointed with the content. Our main objection is that it does not show any sign that the government of Bondevik regards the differences as a problem, and that the government has neither a goal nor a strategy to slow down and reverse such a development, as far as I can see. It says quite a lot that while the last Bondevik government's main social policy document had the name The Equalization message and contained strategies to reduce differences, the message from this Bondevik government is almost entirely bare for such goals and actions. I can only see one explanation for this important difference: in today's Bondevik government, the Right is in the driver's seat, both in terms of social policy and economic policy. And right-wing policies have never, in any country, proved to be suitable for combating poverty. On the contrary. Therefore, SV’s main objection to the message is the following: It lacks both objectives and measures to reduce economic and social differences. Without such a strategy, poverty will never succeed, as SV sees it. Once again, the figures from Oslo presented by the SSB are interesting. Oslo is not only the place in the country that has the greatest share of the poor, but it is also here that the economic differences are the greatest. So there's a clear link between big differences and poverty. Where there are the greatest differences, there is also the most poverty. The second main objection SV has to the poverty response of the Government is that what is proposed is too small and too puzzled. 335 million. kr is small money when we talk about such a comprehensive problem. And even worse, when the government simultaneously, through the state budgets and in other matters, makes for the contractions that far exceed these 335 million. These include cutbacks in the day-to-day arrangements for job-seekers, reduction in support for child care, removal of the early childhood supplement and non-price adjustment of child benefit, increase in percentages, proposals for reduced payments to people on temporary unpaid pay, etc. So the government gives a little bit with one hand, but it takes a lot more with the other. This creates more poverty, not less. For SV, some areas are at the heart of the fight against poverty. The tax system is the policy instrument that can contribute most to a fairer economic and social distribution. Today's tax system, as SV sees it, is unfair and needs to be changed. SV's tax regime will provide tax relief for those who have little and little income, and will increase taxes for those who have high incomes, large wealth and receive large dividends. Now, until the autumn, the Storting will decide on the future tax system through the treatment of the Skage Committee's suspension, but SV will already say clearly that for our part, the balancing aspect of the tax system will be very important, as it has always been. The second major measure of poverty reduction is linked to work and working life. Again and again, people with no or weak links to the labour market have great chances of falling into poverty. It is therefore necessary to use more resources and more measures to allow more people to work regularly. These are measures to reduce pressure and efficiency, which means that many people are pushed out of work, they are measures to facilitate working life for people with disabilities and others with special needs, measures to ensure the qualification and retraining of people to meet new demands, and measures to include much more immigrants, not least migrant women, in working life. The latter is not least important, because the numbers also tell us that immigrant groups are partly strongly overrepresented among the poor, not least in Oslo. However, it will still be such that, for a short or longer time, and for various reasons, some cannot be in paid employment and provide for their seas and, if necessary, their families through participation in the labour market. We must then have sound social security systems that ensure economic security and a predictable economic foundation for the lives of these people as well. SV won't be in a way that is so that if we just turn the situation upside down and hard enough for people who are sick or disabled, they'll probably be able to get into work. We need a social security system that is simpler for both users and bureaucrats, and social security benefits that are at such a level that it is possible to live a dignified life with such benefits over time. That is why SV wants an overall review of this, and we are today promoting proposals in line with it. Housing policy is another area that is at the heart of poverty reduction. Very many poor people have poor or unstable living conditions – yes, some even lack a place to live. This is unworthy. In addition, many also face very high housing costs, and this is one of the main causes of poverty. So we have a housing market that doesn't work for those who need it the most. Both the higher framework for the Husbank, more money for the municipalities for social housing and changes in housing support rules are examples of action that needs to be taken quickly and that has been suggested in several contexts by SV. Let's do it again here today. Norwegian municipalities are central to creating the welfare society that the vast majority of us want us to have. In a depressed economic situation, in which many municipalities are, there are restrictions and cuts that will in many cases hit the poorest, and not least hit the children of poor families. When municipalities have to set up kindergarten prices because of poor municipal economy, many will not be able to afford to send their children there. As a result, these children miss a good and safe growing-up offer in the nursery. These include: That is why a majority in this House has now decided that it should be maximum prices. Another example: when the municipalities, because the bulk of the population has cut the State aid to the SFO, are now forced into large price increases, it will hit children who will just need a safe and good offer outside school education. Intensifications in school budgets result in more places cutting out camp school stays, trips, excursions and other exciting arrangements. This affects particularly hard children from families who cannot afford to give them such experiences on a private basis. I could mention several examples showing that a good municipal economy is a necessary prerequisite for maintaining good welfare offers that are accessible to all. As a result, strengthening the finances of municipalities is also very important for combating poverty. I then finally take up the suggestions that SV alone or together with other parties have promoted in the setting, and that have not already been promoted by others.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e280	The representative Sigbjørn Molvik has taken up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e283	Today, when we debate and engage in an action plan against poverty, it is because we are concerned that our children and grandchildren will have a good future in Norway. For me and the Christian People's Party, it is important that we have an expanded perspective on the debate at the same time. Today, 1.2 billion people live in extreme poverty. They live for less than a dollar a day – less than a gallon of gasoline costs! Nearly 150 million children are undernourished, and 120 million primary school children are not allowed to attend school. It's this big gap that is all about the big redistribution and the will to balance the differences between north and south. International solidarity is important. This does not mean, however, that we should forget that there are people in our country with so low incomes that they will not be able to meet basic welfare needs over time. The government has added a base of 50 pst. of median income over three years as the main indication for the definition of poverty. The message is based on the anti-sampling message provided by the Bondevik government. It pointed to which groups should be given priority in order for most of us to have a good life. A special focus was placed on the fact that we have so many poor children in Norway. At the national meeting of the Christian People's Party this weekend, our Prime Minister told us that when he heard Odvar Nordli say to the then Prime Minister Stoltenberg that this was a shame, he decided to address this problem if he would again lead a government. And the Cooperation Government, led by Mr Bondevik, is the first government to put forward a concrete action plan against poverty. It is the Christian People's Party proud of. Already this year, 400 million have been allocated. extra to measures for drug addicts, homeless, lone dependants and long-term beneficiaries of social assistance. The vision is that no one should live in poverty in Norway. The main strategy is to get more people working. That is why it is so important to create safe jobs. It worries the Christian People's Party that the latest figures show that there are now over 91,000 entirely unemployed. The fight against unemployment is a fight against poverty. The government has invited all parties to cooperate to reduce unemployment. I hope we get a good solution across traditional dividing lines. At our national meeting, there was a budget breach that one in the revised national budget would set aside another DKK 1 billion for favourable borrowing schemes for school buildings in municipalities. This will stimulate construction activities and provide more work, which is fully in line with today’s forecast. Most of us want to support ourselves through our own work. Work gives self-respect, and social relationships are created that we all need. The individual has a responsibility for his own life. One must be able to make demands based on the abilities and resources of each individual. ‘To make demands is an expression of respect and faith in the individual’, the Communication states. Some will always be dependent on others to set up. I want to mention three groups. Drug addicts are a disadvantaged group in society with major health problems and poor economic performance. In addition to prevention measures, the action plan on drug problems has many concrete options, such as: extension of medically assisted rehabilitation, low-threshold healthcare provision, improved access to effective counselling and follow-up assistance. Proposals have been made for the right to individual level under the social services law. This will be an important measure to ensure that, for example: drug users with complex needs receive coordinated services and a coherent chain of action. The second group I want to mention is people with a minority background – especially women. It is important that they qualify for higher paid work. Many municipalities have good experience with such important labour in the care professions. The Christian People's Party has expectations of the project which requires all state establishments to convene at least one applicant with a migrant background if qualified. It must not be our prejudices that overrepresent these on the list of unemployed. I am concerned about and impatient about finding a solution for older immigrants and refugees with short residence in Norway. These do not have full pension rights in the social security system and must apply for social assistance even if they have a long career behind them. The majority has previously joined the proposal for a supplementary social welfare scheme for this group, and the Christian People's Party supports it and hopes that this will become a reality during this year. Then I'll say a few words about housing and housing support. It is very positive that non-governmental organisations are co-players in order to improve the very weakest in the housing market. The housing aid scheme is a rigorous instrument. For all those who failed with high electricity bills in winter, a unanimous decision to grant NOK 2 500 has been a great help to all the housing beneficiaries. I notice that the Workers' Party asks the Government to ensure that the housing aid scheme's lighting and heat template is extended to all housing beneficiaries, as a permanent scheme from other tertiary in 2003. When they were in position, they wanted to remove the whole scheme in connection with the 2001 state budget. The cooperation management has raised the template for light and heat by 10 pst. both in 2002 and 2003. We will also provide an owner-occupied housing report for the autumn, and therefore we do not support any of the housing proposals today. Many families with young children face high housing costs. For them, the government's budgetary policy with tight frameworks has really produced a positive result. Four times the interest rate has fallen. That is, with a loan of 1.5 million. kr is going to be 2 pst. a reduction in interest rates of almost NOK 22 000 per year. For the municipalities, this is absolutely crucial. Nearly $1.5 billion they earned on this. And a good local economy is important to enable municipalities to implement all the action plans and actions promoted to combat poverty on several fronts. As far as IV is concerned in the proposal for a decision, we were involved in this and supported it, of course. We believe it is unreasonable and discriminatory that a social welfare scheme for child care alone should not also apply to single-parents who, because of their incapacity, have to leave their children to others the necessary supervision. We do not support III in the proposal for a decision on the extension of self-interest at this stage. The scheme has just started and the sample considered it impractical to extend the Roof 2 scheme further. In the case of municipal services and self-payments, these will be assessed in the quality notification soon to come. The Christian People's Party supports X in the proposal for a decision. It is important that the intentions of the psychiatry escalation plan are followed up. It is unacceptable that children and young people should wait almost twice as long as adults for the help of specialist health services. It's just the kids who need help early to avoid getting into an evil circle. Poverty needs to be seen in a close context with efforts in several areas. There is no simple prescription. But I think we have a great prevention potential, which will prevent new people from falling into a situation of poverty. We must build on the universal welfare systems if we are to succeed, while adapting them individually to their particular situation and needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e338	The fight against poverty cannot be fought once and for all and in one stroke or document. It is a continuous and shared responsibility to ensure that all people are satisfied with their basic needs, and that means that one ensures the right to health, housing, work, education and, last but not least, food. A fair distribution and cohesion policy must be the basis for ensuring an equal standard of living for all. In recent times, we have seen a trend in which most people have improved their economy and their social standard of living, but within this main picture there are great differences. Those who had already the most to roam with, have got even more, while those who had the greatest problems and the greatest scarcity from before, have been hanging even more after. This difference has accelerated not least in the last decade and is now continuing into a new millennium. The center party called out a warning about this in the mid-1990s, and we talked about that we were getting a Difference Norway. Then we were told by the then government party and also by other parties that we were driving crisis maximisation and black paint. But eventually everyone had to admit that this development was going on. This resulted, inter alia, in: in the Equalisation message, as provided by the Bondevik I Government. It had elements in it that were very good, and we think it was a big mistake that it was not put at the bottom, as the basis for such an action plan like this, because now there are again very many words without concrete proposals. I would like to remind you that in the Equalisation Communication there were concrete proposals, measures that were intended to cost about NOK 2 billion. If one has the means to balance economic differences, the tax system is one of the most important. One must then have a tax system that provides for the distribution of both obligations and benefits. The tax system we have today takes too little account of this. The government that we now have has first and foremost taken advantage of them with high incomes and great opportunities rather than driving economic smoothing so that there is greater justice. If all are to have opportunities to develop their abilities and use them for the benefit of themselves and the community, there must be equal opportunities. Today, we see that market management and privatisation are some of the magic forms used by the Government. But market governance and privatisation will primarily increase the differences in society. The market is not fair, nor does it take social responsibility, as several parties establish in the setting of this Communication. We believe that a fair society should be based on universal welfare schemes without eccentricities, rather than just constructing special schemes for the few. We have heard the Minister of Social Affairs several times since she joined and until today talk about tailoring for some measures. We believe universal arrangements must exist. It also has to become a fair distribution system based on the old slogan ‘do your duty, demand your right’. I would like to address this with the local economy. The community economy is one of the most important elements in order to be able to pursue active mitigation policies where people live and work. Today we see that the local economy is so bad that the municipalities have to exercise great creativity for, among other things. developing components and charges. This attacks those who have the lowest ability to pay. Instead, it should be that the municipalities had an economy that could protect them with the worst ability to pay from, among other things. high individuals and maximum expenditure. In the Equalization Communication, there were five main points to be taken as the basis for a better society for all. It was a softer workline more social housing policy more fine-tuning social security networks to improve public services more equitable tax systems. We believe that this action plan should have been based more on these five main elements. Finally, we want this not to be a one-off case, we want a continuous management of this problem. We have seen that last year, the government that has presented this plan of measures promoted many unsocial and divergent proposals. For this reason, we propose that the Government submit an annual report to the Stortinge in terms of differences in Norway, and that the actions undertaken should also be evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e379	The government’s action plan against poverty does not replace the general welfare schemes, but also. The action plan comes because the general schemes do not capture the poorest enough. The left has always said that the quality of a society can be measured by how they are the least quiet. We can never settle down with individuals and groups falling outside. The Left is pleased and proud that the Government has seen poverty on the agenda in a way that no government has ever done before. It is understandable that the Government's opponents are trying to reduce this as much as possible, and that the Labour Party has forgotten the self-criticism they came with after the 2001 election. But I think it's both rude and wrong when socialists and social democrats seek to monopolize social sensibilities. The social liberal and non-socialist focus on the individual is probably as good as it is to help those who need help, as it is to lubricate all systems evenly across the entire population. It is precisely this policy that has not been pursued, but has led to the fact that it is still in a welfare society that Norway is too many poor. Some children still live in poverty in Velferds-Noreg, and we have a growing group of disabled and long-term unemployed who have poor living conditions. Many people fall between two chairs because they don't fit into the public services that exist. We need to shift the focus from moving money between those who have it financially and helping the weakest. In this context, there is a smoothing, e.g. through the tax system, also important. But it's too easy for the socialist minority in the committee, unfortunately including the Center Party, to think that only one takes enough from the richest, all the problems will be solved. The most important thing to reduce poverty is to reduce unemployment. All of a sudden losing the job is too many people a tragedy. For this reason, the general economic policy which ensures a low interest rate and a weak exchange rate to prevent major unemployment is of great importance. When a news item is announced that there is a record low start-up of businesses, this is also a warning signal that needs to be taken seriously. Without the tax havens given to business in the last few years, the situation would now be dramatically worse. The left agrees that work is the most important means of getting out of poverty. But not everyone can get or do a payroll, and human dignity must not be linked to whether people are at work or not. For the Left, it is that the welfare society must be renewed in order not to be confused. Our vision in the long term is city pay, a guaranteed minimum income that can give everyone a basic security, and that makes it unnecessary to have to come with a hand and expand their privacy to a public office. The government is doing such a thing, and I have to admit that I am very disappointed in the plurality of this room, which is to postpone the most over-ripe reform of the public utility, simply to coordinate Aetat, the social security system and the social affairs. We have a complicated code to help those who get into a difficult life situation. Many people are sent to the office to get help, and are sent to the next office door with a message that ‘this is not my table’. A process has been launched around to achieve such coordination. This will be stopped and suspended for several years. This is also the subject of debate on the next issue. The next step would be to coordinate the economic benefits, which we are currently using enormous resources to administer. The left wants a simplification, as I call it, simply a city wage, so that the person who comes into a difficult situation should be guaranteed a minimum income. Then a spent energy can get out of the difficult situation, without thinking about whether you have money for food or other things. In 5 minutes, it's not that easy to get into a lot of the areas in the setting and in the message. I'll finally concentrate on one bit, simply russorga, because among our poor, a lot of people have drug problems. It's people who don't have jobs, education, health care, social networking or housing. Getting an assistive device that takes these seriously should, in the Left's view, be one of our most important areas of activity. This has also been taken seriously by the Government by focusing on the quality of relief measures, and by providing all drug users with their own individual rehabilitation plan. Within this area there are huge challenges, and I hope that the reorganisation that is now being undertaken will help these people to get a better life and get out of poverty. Finally, of course, the Left supports all the proposals behind the Right Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e405	Statistics never give the whole truth. Statistics tell us that Norway is the world’s best country to live in, and this is a description that suits most of us. But the statistics provide no true description for the sole caregivers who need Christmas packages at the Salvation Army in December, or for those families who don't have the money to send their children to camp school. Nor does the statistics give a true picture of unemployed persons who cannot afford leisure activities, or long-term unemployed who can no longer pay the membership quota in the sport. The tendency to describe Velferds-Norway with statistical data may have contributed to the fact that poverty in Norway has been more or less a hidden phenomenon and was first seriously put on the agenda for the last major elections. Thus, it is affordable to promote a separate case of action against poverty. However, the notification carries bids for changes in our welfare policy. What has underpinned the Scandinavian welfare model has been that our welfare systems should be universal, rights-based, and that the benefits should be generous. The government's propensity to fight poverty is of the opposite nature. Here it's called tailor-made, those who really need it, a level of performance that motivates. The paradox is that while the Government is presenting a poverty report, a number of proposals are being promoted to create new poor people. At a time when unemployment is growing, proposals are being made to reduce unemployment. The unemployment benefit can no longer be obtained for three years, but only for two. The holiday supplement in the unemployment allowance disappears, and the number of days of withdrawal is extended. In the government's view, such tightening will motivate people to find work. But it is not the motivation that is missing from the 100 000 unemployed and jobseekers. The motivation is there, but the right to work is lacking. The government lacks measures to secure this right. Similarly, the Government promotes proposals for tightening up disability benefits. Those who receive temporary disability benefit shall receive less compensation than in the past, according to the Government’s proposal. They shall lose tax benefits which are otherwise enjoyed by insured persons, which means that special deductions are abolished and that they must pay more in social security contributions or receive an increase in their gross tax of almost 7 pst. The government that has flagged tax relief as its main concern introduces the largest tax shields for those who have the least. Also with an argument about creating motivation for work. But motivation for work is not created through the development of poverty, it only creates renunciation and frustration. What has so far been one of the best means of staggering in the country, the Community school, is being replaced by private schools. Instead of giving everyone the right to free school, school materials and grants to the poorest are subject to needs testing. That's not how we create equivalency. Skreedersøm will be launched as part of the modern world. But it's not modern to return to the distinction that we had before the welfare state. If we are to fight poverty, we must fight the causes of it. We must understand that the causes of poverty lie primarily in structural conditions. And it's through a general policy that ensures everyone an economic and social basic security, we can maintain our dignity and participation in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e422	Economic growth and universal welfare schemes have contributed to material prosperity and basic economic security for the Norwegian population. Unfortunately, poverty is not a prehistoric phenomenon. Individuals in our society experience persistent low incomes and subsequent living conditions problems. Action plan against poverty, as the Government presented last autumn, is the first big paper after the war to put poverty on the agenda. With the Action Plan, the Government has established poverty as a policy area. This provides a good starting point for action. There are various and complex reasons why people today are living in a situation of poverty. The action must address the individual causes and risk factors for poverty. A wide range of targeted actions needs to be implemented. The main cause of poverty is weak or no link to employment. Work is thus the most important way out of poverty. The Committee's position also shows that there is a cross-political consensus on this. The government's objective is that as much as possible in working age should be self-reliant on their own work. Work gives income and the feeling of being useful and belonging. Work is also the most effective way to reduce differences. As part of the implementation of the poverty action plan, in the year 1000 places are created in labour market measures for long-term recipients of social assistance. We have many examples that targeted action work can help people from a passive social welfare situation into work. The municipality of Kristiansund has for several years been actively working in response to long-term social assistance beneficiaries and is being allocated new resources for labour-oriented measures as part of the action plan. A systematic monitoring of the beneficiaries and close local cooperation between Aetat, the social security system and the social service have resulted in a significant decline not only in the past but also in new long-term beneficiaries and in expenditure on social assistance in the municipality. Some have gone into regular work quickly, others have started qualifying activities and training. Individuals are also excluded, despite a well-developed welfare system. The welfare systems are built up over many decades, with some social challenges other than those we face today. Today’s poverty problems require solutions other than yesterday’s solutions. The welfare state needs to be modernised and further developed in line with today’s and tomorrow’s challenges. The government will target and further develop the welfare systems so that they contribute more to preventing poverty and helping people out of poverty. Services and cash benefits need to be more structured on the basis of the individual’s needs and must be coherent and comprehensive in the provision of assistance. Experiences from the project are homeless and 24 measures per year. is currently under trial in seven participating municipalities, showing that an overall and systematic effort is working. In the vast majority of municipalities, the use of the hostel is reported to have been reduced. For example, the City of St. Hanshaugen-Ullevenål in Oslo has systematically reduced hostel use from 35 to 40 inhabitants in 2002 to zero this year. The government continues Project homeless and strengthens and develops the follow-up service in housing for the homeless as part of the action plan against poverty. The government wants an inclusive society. Social inclusion is important both for individuals and for society, and we need to facilitate meaningful activity and participation for all. The action plan against poverty is based on the fact that occupational activity among parents is clearly the key prerequisite for combating poverty and improving the growing conditions of children living in low-income families. Measures that can help to strengthen parents’ work relationships are central to the action plan. The government also implements targeted improvements in welfare systems. Children in economically disadvantaged families are more vulnerable to social exclusion in school, play and leisure than other children. Approaches to the problem of poverty among children must therefore be more limited than better benefits and schemes for parents. It is important to prevent young people from falling out of secondary education at the start of their adult life. I am pleased to note that there is a broad support for the Government's proposals for measures to prevent and help people out of poverty. The government is already well in the process of implementing the action plan, which has a four-year planning period. The measures in 2002 included, inter alia: increased child allowances for disability and old-age pensioners with children under 18 years of age in the guidance guidelines on economic social assistance increases in boute tax ceilings in the housing support scheme extended treatment capacity and health provision for drug users The State budget for 2003 allocated 335 million. for targeted actions. The operation includes, as previously mentioned, inter alia: job-oriented measures for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance and for the strengthening of migrant follow-up services for homeless-targeted improvements in social welfare schemes The government will follow up on action against poverty in relation to the annual government budgets. In other words, the plan of action we are dealing with today is not the end of a process, but rather the beginning. The major community has a special responsibility to help people in distress or in danger of falling outside. However, the state and the municipalities cannot combat poverty alone. The government is therefore making concerted efforts, where public authorities are playing with non-governmental organisations and social partners. The action plan against poverty is thus a first step in a long-term and systematic effort to combat poverty. The government's emphasis is on getting more knowledge, not only about the problems, but also about the solutions, and working along several channels. Targeted action against poverty requires knowledge of the extent of poverty, living conditions and social exclusion in the population and how this works over time. The Ministry of Social Affairs has recently concluded an agreement with the Statistical Central Agency on a comprehensive approach to social reporting. The first report will be given in the autumn of 2003. Through the Welfare Programme under the auspices of the Norwegian Research Council, two research environments have been selected as core environments for research on poverty and social assistance. This will facilitate the development of new and increased knowledge on poverty and marginalisation. I am pleased that Norway is given the opportunity to exchange knowledge and experience on what is going on, with other European countries, through participation in the EU social inclusion framework programme. This will underpin national efforts to prevent and help people out of poverty. The government has undertaken a major effort to renew and target social policy. The goal is to move the focus from system to individual, from quantity to quality. We need to clear up unclear responsibilities, simplify complex arrangements and ensure comprehensive and coordinated services for users. The aim is to ensure the security of individuals, to create new opportunities for people who have fallen outside, and to facilitate work and activity. The reason is simple: people have a natural desire to handle themselves. We must therefore facilitate the widest possible provision of services through our own income, while at the same time creating good arrangements for those who do not manage themselves. The poverty problem involves each of us – and it concerns us. I look forward to an important and exciting debate here today. So far have I also heard that it has been.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e490	It's going to be line change. The President reminds us that after the new legislation, the speaking time for repetitions is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e495	Thank you for that reminder. I'll be very short. In St. Report. No 6 it is clear that the Government’s vision is that no one should live in poverty in Norway. My question is simply: can the Minister of Social Affairs say something about the achievement of the goal? Has there been more or less poverty in Norway since the government change?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e502	Thank you for a simple but also very difficult question. As I underlined in my introduction, the Government is concerned that the actions of the Action Plan promoted by the Government for 2002 and 2003 are to be assessed, precisely to see what works, and what does not work, while involving both the Statistical Central Agency, research environments and not least the voluntary organisations, which also have channels that many of us do not have. The Government will comply with the plan in an obligatory manner. We need to improve it, and we also need to evaluate the measures. We are going to develop new measures based on what works and what does not work, and we are going to follow up in the budgets. We will also continue the dialogue we have already established, with annual meetings with voluntary Norway. It is no longer than two weeks since I was at a large hearing with the volunteer organisations. For a number, it's already worked. In the case of drug users, there is one area — where we can see that overdose deaths actually go down. But it's too early to say whether this is a permanent change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e511	In my main post, I referred to figures from the Statistical Central Bureau that, as I read the figures at least, show a clear correlation between increasing differences and increasing poverty. I therefore have the following questions for the Minister of Social Affairs: Is it an objective for the Government to stop and possibly reverse the developments we are still seeing, where some are getting richer, while more and more are going into poverty? Or does the Minister for Social Affairs not see any link between large differences and increasing poverty, and therefore no need for economic and social cohesion?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e518	Well, of course, it's important to smooth out. But it is also a long-term project, and it is little targeted. The poverty message is targeted, and we are already seeing results. Throughout the post-war period, it has been shown that the review and establishment of the broad and good welfare systems have both prevented and prevented people from living in poverty. But at the same time, we see that it has not produced the result that we can today say that we do not have poverty. I know that SV has also had a strategy that has taken away from the rich, rather than really setting targets for measures to help those who are poor. This is a policy that has also proved to be ineffective, and has not solved the problem either. I think it is important that we now do not do any more of what we know is not working, but we need a new policy and new instruments that are targeted, where we can do both – cohesion, but also targeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e525	First, a comment on the Social Minister's message on renewal and targeting through tailoring. I think the tailor's eye can be the opposite of renewal and modernisation, that there is a hairy balance between renewal here and an old-fashioned charity policy. But so to this that the Social Minister is concerned about, the long-term and systematic work, and that one should acquire knowledge and understanding of what poverty is, and how it develops. In the change of lines, the Minister of Social Affairs says it's important to find out what works and what doesn't work. This sounds correct, important and effective, but there may also be some sayings when the government says they will target and measure the measures and see what is most effective. Why is it not possible to support the proposal that the Stortinge should be presented with an annual report on differences in Norway and how the various measures to mitigate and combat poverty are working?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e534	This is part of a four-year plan. It started with measures already in 2002. The 2003 budget deals with the action plan today, and the Government will follow it up in the current budgets, and will look at the entire four-year period. We are also going to follow the plan in an obligatory way, where we, among other things, are going to follow it. We also need to continue the dialogue we have with the volunteers, but we also need to look at what works and doesn't work. From this point of view, there will be a basis for debate on the budgets submitted in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e539	Among those groups that are really struggling with the economy in today's situation are the sick and the needy and the needy and the needy. help of municipalities to cope with their daily lives. Then it's strange that we've come into a situation where in fact all the government parties go against Roman number III, which goes into the use of prowess, and not least to expand the bit to be covered by the Roof 2 scheme. Here we have a large group of people who are really struggling with the economy, and there the government is not willing to see the problems. My question to the Council of State is then: does the Council of State see it as a problem at all that, on the municipal level, the excesses are so high that those who are already struggling to get the ends to meet – sick and needy – are actually being pushed into poverty by politicians, where the problems will only tower further?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e547	I perceive that this is about municipal economics and the ability of municipalities to solve problems. This is what the Government will come back to, among other things. in the revised national budget. The government recently introduced a roof 2 scheme. The scheme was introduced because many — in particular chroniclers — have very high expenditures on drugs, and many expenditures are not caught up in the existing scheme. It will be assessed after having worked for a while, taking into account possible adjustments and possible corrections to the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e554	I asked in my first line the question whether it has become more or less poor in Norway after the government change, and the essence of the answer from the government council was that we don't know yet, we're working on it. I understand that. My question now is: What kind of impression does the Council of State have? I would like to believe that a social minister must live so strongly in the political field for which she is responsible that she must have an idea of what kind of development is going on. Is the Council of State's view that the government's policy is working, that it is now actually becoming less poor, or are we in the situation that policy is not working, and that it is becoming more poor? The Minister of Social Affairs must have an opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e561	Yes, I have an opinion. I think I'll just remind you that we know something, but we don't know enough – that's why this social report. The most important thing to help people out of poverty is to help people get into work, and we see that the action areas and measures actually work. At the same time, we don't know enough about what is poverty, and that humility I want to share with the Storting. In meeting the volunteer organizations, who have lived a lot closer to those who are poor, for many years, they are the first to say that we do not know enough. We don't know enough about the measures that really want to take. They also stress that, in the case of children living in poverty in particular, children are experts in concealing the poverty of their parents and the distress they are actually experiencing, that we have far too little knowledge of this, and that there is knowledge that does not necessarily arise from a statistic. What I also know is that the measures taken in relation to drug users are effective. So we know something, something works, and we're still on the go.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e570	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e573	Norway is a good country to live in. Norway is a safe country, a rich country and a well-functioning country. Norway is a good country for most people. But Norway is also a country where people starve, freeze and suffer. It is not that there are large groups in the population who are poor, but there are individuals in all parts of the population who are described as poor for short or longer periods. The fact that entire groups are considered eligible can act as stigmatizing and remove the focus from those that really apply, the individuals who need the help most. The Progress Party believes that today's social protection is far too extensive and general. It has become a bureaucratic and unbridled system, which easily loses focus on the individual. We should and should be very careful about creating clients and users in a society, as we do by first demanding large parts of the income to people, so that many in the next round must seek support schemes in order to survive. Based on the fact that the individual has a responsibility for his or her own life and life, becoming a client in a system can lead to very negative consequences for the individual. We have seen a dramatic increase in the number of people suffering from psychosocial and psychosomatic disorders in recent years. Could this be a result of society's mistrust of people? Can individuals feel that society has lost respect for them and faith in them when, for example, they are forced in the social office to make up the bill for the flow they needed to survive the winter? In today's situation with increasing unemployment, we need to be careful to create a society that places the unemployed in a passive queue, where they receive a few dollars a week. Activity and social activity are the most important preventative means of preventing more people from experiencing mental distress, and precisely because of the psychological distress that is unable to return to work. Norway is a rich country because people have created values. Norway is a well-functioning country because some people spend days, years, yes, their whole lives creating growth and values that are useful to society. I am therefore appalled that for some people the solution to the poverty problem in Norway is to ensure that these value creations are taxed and thinned by taxes and charges that seem unreasonable. Who in the world are the ones who are happier when the financial differences are leveled out? That doesn't mean that no one is any longer poor, that just means that there is no longer any incentive to drive value creation here in the country. Do we really want to have a society where the slogan is, "Sure as desired, requires as necessary?" I'm afraid we're going there if the welfare arrangements become more attractive than self-sufficiency. Too many unemployed people will be better paid decently to carry out social work, for example: in care, other than to become passive social security recipients. We must be careful so that welfare systems do not become a trap – to passivity and poverty. The Progress Party therefore considers that targeted action must be important against the fact that the individual who is able to do so has both the right and the duty to support himself through his own work. Indeed, welfare schemes must stimulate activity and not passivity.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e590	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e593	The representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, drew up an ideological debate on the basis of the communication, and that's very interesting. He was also humble in relation to the policy pursued in the post-war period, saying that much had worked, but that we were not yet in the goal. I fully agree with that. But what might have been so interesting was whether he had spent some time discussing why one hadn't fully achieved the welfare policy that the party has faced in the post-war period. The big, universal, important arrangements that we have set up are those that have largely been a broad political agreement – arrangements that have been made and that have had a great impact on the development of the welfare society that we know. But then, despite this, one has seen that there are people – as we easily say – falling through. And when you say "fall through," it's easy to use that term, that we need a network that captures them. A user often uses the term that one must have a welfare society where one has a network that captures those who fall through. But do we still need more networks? Perhaps we need more trampolines to help people get back to work, which focus on the need to target the measures? This is reflected in the specific policy. The Labour Party government wanted to introduce free schoolbooks to everyone in high school, and thought it was the right welfare policy. But what did it get out of it? During the time Bjarne Håkon Hanssen was in government, it became approx. 1.2 book to each student, while this government introduced a scholarship scheme that made those who really needed school books get school books there and then. One had a discussion about the gravitational aid, which the Labour Party government – year after year – would not adjust. There is a system that has been lubricated thinly beyond everyone. This government said, "Everyone doesn't need gravitational assistance, but those who need it will get a real benefit." It raised the social benefit, but removed it for all those who didn't need it. One has seen it in school policy. We have heard representatives of the Workers' Party say that private schools will create differences in Norway. The truth is that the Workers' Party has accepted year after year that one has established private schools for them in the top social team, who have been able to afford to pay for it, while this government will put in place schemes to increase the benefit of private schools, so that even those who do not have a good economy can afford to do so. The same is true in the hospital sector: the Labour Party has accepted the private options as long as the schemes were for the rich. But this government makes these are arrangements that will apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e608	Among the many actions that are being discussed here, I would like to take a look at one point. This applies to the issue of asylum seekers and others who, because of their short butid in Norway, are unable to receive full pensions in the public sector. It is important that the Government now follows up the setting in this area, which I expect, all the time a majority is behind the proposal to ask the Government to ‘promote proposals for a new social welfare scheme for short-term pensioners in Norway during 2003’. It's certainly time. For already in the dither message, use St. Meld. No 50 for 1998-99, the problem was well discussed in many ways. Here's what it says: ‘People who do not have refugee status and who have a long foreign butide in adulthood cannot receive a full pension in the social security system. It applies to people with residence permits on a humanitarian basis and to migrant workers as well as to Nordics with long periods of time. When these groups become pensioners, some might need long-term economic social assistance as a complement to a low social security.’ It also outlines proposals for measures to correct biases, and states: ‘The government therefore believes that persons with short butide in Norway should receive additional benefits from a new social welfare scheme on the basis of a special law. It facilitates the delimitation of the new regime in accordance with the need.’» And then this is a little bit more concrete. This ended in a large majority, but the government has not yet followed up on this, despite a great deal of pressure from individual municipalities and from the Municipal Councils' Central Association, and that things have been signed up again here in the hall. The Ministry of Social Affairs stated when Dagsrevyen put the search light on this 14 February 2002, that the government would look at the issue of the 2003 state budget. But there was nothing here. Lack of pension rights leads — as is also stated in the Equalisation Communication — to asylum seekers and others with short butide in Norway who have to live on social assistance or have social assistance as a complement to the poor social security they may receive. Social assistance should not be of a lasting nature, but a good number of people will be forced to live on social welfare for a period of 10–25 years. This is unworthy of the human beings that it owes. This leads to some kind of division of people into an A and a B teams. The second is that this leads to an additional municipal burden as it is paid as a social benefit, and the municipalities now refuse to accept asylum seekers, or simply refuse to do so. It is therefore necessary that the Government follows well up this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e627	For SV, the fight against poverty is a matter of value and a matter of heart. Now I've been listening to, and I've heard a social minister and government party that doesn't matter for a second to convince me that they're involved in the case. On the other hand, I see that the flame of battle comes up and it is clear when you have to defend that you have given tax relief to the richest, and that you don't think redistribution is important. I have to say I'm getting upset. And then we don't know what works, says the Minister of Social Affairs. Yes, we do. Short cuts in social security and welfare systems work. People get poor out of it. They don't get to work getting poor. Increased prowess also works. People get poor out of it, and the sick get less opportunity to cope and get on their feet. Expensive dwellings or lack of dwellings work. People who don't have a roof over their heads and a safe home, can't keep a job, can't take education, can't recover health. Too little bet in a good school for everyone works. Then the children of those who have small resources at home do not have equal opportunities compared to those who have large resources. I'm not so surprised that Right means this. They have always thought that the rich work better and more when they get more, and that the poor work more when they get less. But I'm a little upset about the Christian People's Party, even when they can say that the big problem in the world is that it's poor elsewhere. Yes, it is. But will there be something better for the poor in the Third World whose rich people in Norway are getting richer or are we even making things worse for the poor in Norway? So it's not true, as the government seems to think, that what's good for the richest in Norway is good for Norway and good for the poor. It is not that when it rains on the priest, it drips on the clock. It's simply not true. Neither is it the case if you want to fight poverty, that you can lay low every time the strong and powerful come and knock on and want more money. Then you have to say no -- there's something else that's more important to us, which is more valuable, there's someone who actually needs it more, you're big and strong, you have to join in and pull this load, so we can keep this society well for everyone. I miss you guys in that fight. The government says the policy is focused. Yes, it is. First NOK 20 billion in tax bills, mostly for the most well-preserved, of which SEK 1.7 billion was cash in the lab of those who had income from dividends. So it went into the social and welfare systems and increased the excesses together approximately. Two billion kroner, and then, when it had done this, it put a poverty package of about. 400 million. kr. Yes, it was targeted, it was targeted. And then finally, if you want to do something properly targeted, get those who come out of drug treatment and out of our prisons, roof over their heads. That's something we can actually decide, and some of the most important things we can do, and we can do it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e645	The central party believes it is good that the government has presented its own action plan against poverty. There is no doubt that the measures proposed will benefit some individuals. However, it is embarrassing that the plan is so sparse that it covers only a few, and that the 2003 budget showed that the Government indicated that it was sick, disabled and unemployed who had to pay the plan. The government's figures show that for 2003 they got 350,000 dollars, 6000 dollars or more in tax dollars. At the same time, groups that really needed to strengthen their own economy got tightened up. So the government had more money - she chose to give it to the richest. The smoothing message has established five strategies for smoothing the differences: a more social housing policy to ensure more than one dwelling as a starting point for life’s softer workline to include more people in the world of work more finmasked social security networks, so that more people will be able to manage their own financial services in order to ensure more than one necessary follow-up to more equitable tax systems, which would provide the necessary means to implement the measures proposed in the message A government that wants to take up the fight against poverty now needs to take an extra roof to secure more work and housing. A government that wants to take up the fight against poverty cannot push a plan like a strange fig leaf at the same time as it pursues a policy that makes it tougher for single mothers, disabled people and even some families with children. A government that wants to take up the fight against poverty, provides for a local economy that still has a good and free public school in this country, and can have a more dignified care. Unfortunately, this cannot be said about this government. The national meeting of the Christian People's Party provided for a certain recognition of the failure of social policy. Today, the Christian People’s Party can make these signals more than words. They may arrange for a majority of 12 proposals from the Labour Party, the SV and the Centre Party. But if they thicken twelve proposals is a little bit at once, I will turn the search light against proposal No. 3, which will give a better start to immigrant youth in Norway, proposal No. 8, which will secure more than one dwelling, and proposal No. 12, which will ensure that many of the most deferred workers in the labour market are able to be included in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e675	The representative, Höie, tried to draw up an interesting ideological debate, which requires some time to go into it, but I think that the representative, Karin Andersen, responded well to the ideological point of it. The problem with what the Government is doing in the action plan against poverty is not that it decides to invest in any targeted areas. The problem is that funding takes place in such a way that more and more targeted schemes are needed because welfare systems are being weakened, so that more and more people need this trampoline that Bent Höie wants. That's the heart of the matter. You don't fight poverty. You deal with poverty as you create poverty. I have tried in this debate to ask the Minister of Social Affairs, at least twice, what kind of impression she has of the policy that the Government is pursuing. After the last line, the Minister of Social Affairs came up here and said she had an opinion of it. Yes, I have an opinion, said the Minister of Social Affairs. Can't we hear that opinion? What's with the perception that's such a character that it shouldn't get the size for the ear? Can the Minister of Social Affairs just ask for the floor again and give the Stortinget an idea of whether there will be more or less poor people in Norway as the government's policy works? I could have respected myself that the Minister of Social Affairs had no opinion. It would in itself have been alarming, but now the Minister of Social Affairs has said that she has an opinion. Let's hear it. Then I have to say that it is interesting when the social minister says that the labour market is the most important thing. We agree on that. So the Minister of Social Affairs says that in the action plan there are measures to get people back to work and that the measures work. However, the situation is that since the government change, there have been 45 000 more unemployed in Norway. It is not that the measures work in any way. For every day that goes, there will be more and more unemployed. In this way, we are moving further and further away from the objective of using the labour market as the main basis for avoiding poverty creation. What does the Minister for Social Affairs really mean when she says that the measures in relation to the labour market are working?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e684	The Minister of Social Affairs is talking a lot about tailoring the fight against poverty. What I know about tailoring is that it's very expensive, that it takes a long time, that it's for the few, and it's often for the rich. There are other solutions that do the same good, that are cheaper, that work, that embrace everyone. In the Labour Party we have stated that we do not think this is a balancing message. There is a communication on poverty problems, without specific measures. The Minister for Social Affairs has on several occasions, including: on questions from me in this room, said that this government puts the poor first. We didn't think it was taking from the poor first. Many have explained the measures that have been reduced, including: unemployment benefits. That is a good example. As many have seen in the debate: there is no response to poverty, but it is targeted. The representative, Karin Andersen, said it very well. Work, a wage to live off for the unemployed, a social security to survive on and a housing on which it is possible to pay rent, we know something that works to balance differences and to combat poverty. The government will not support our proposals – at work, housing, measures for immigrants. So, despite the fact that representatives from both the Christian People's Party and the Right are speaking hotly for the same things, they will not take concrete action. We have heard representatives from the Progress Party, and despite the fact that they were only two in the Chamber today, I was a little confused about the policy message. But at least I am dealing with the representative Nesvik, who spoke well about the poor and highlighted the poor children. It's also very busy with the Workers' Party. But what's amazing is that the Progress Party has not promoted a single proposal in this case, and it doesn't look like they intend to support any of our proposals either. As the government's best friend, the Progress Party had now had the opportunity to act and negotiate for the poorest in society, but they don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e695	This is a debate on two things. It is a debate on will, and it is a debate on force. It's a debate about the will to create a fair society where we're abolishing poverty, and it's about the power to do this. We want a society where fewer people are going to be poor. We want a society where we're going to be able to eliminate poverty. Then the question is: do we want a society where we prioritise more people becoming rich before we get rid of poverty? When you hear the Government and the Advance Party talk, you realize that they talk more about incentives to be active than they talk about abolishing poverty. The way to create incentives for those who are the poorest, as we heard, among other things. The representative of the Progress Party will mention, for example, the weakening of all social security systems, the weakening of social security systems, the weakening of housing arrangements to help people, so that they may be whipped into action. Then I would like to ask: has the government asked those immigrants who do not get a job because they do not get a job, they have asked the people who are being pushed out of work over 40–50 years old, and who feel they are being skewed out of work because they are not being appreciated, if they feel that this helps – only they get less unemployment, only they get less social follow-up, only they get worse conditions on the housing market, are they going to become so active? Why is it that poor people have to get worse to become active, while everyone who's rich only becomes active if they get tax credits and more money, carrots, to be active? Is this justice? It's not that. It's not equalization. It's not the kind of society we want. From 1986 to 2000, poverty has doubled in Oslo. We've gone from 3.4 pst. to 7.6 pst. Poor in Oslo. It's about an increase from about 17 000 people to 38 000 people only in Oslo. 38 000 people! There are quite a number of places in this country where there are less than 38 000 people. If we're going to do something for these, we have to have the will to create a fair society. I don't think this government has. And then it's about power to do it. $400 million in the poverty message is not a force to do something about poverty. When we know that private wealth in this country is rising by $23.5 billion this year, it's going to be $400 million. a spit in the sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e708	Heikki Holmås uses an expression that can hardly be called parliamentary. The president just chooses to charge it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e711	It has been said so far that the elderly are very little placed in the action plan against poverty. I agree. It was the representative Nesvik of the Progress Party who mentioned this. What is then a little surprising is that there is very little to be found in the attitude to older people's policies, not least from the Progress Party. We have tried to approach this problem somewhat, among other things. by pointing out that a good local economy is one of the most important things for us to have a proper cushioning and for us to have a network that can take care of those who have problems. Within the age group, there are all categories of people. However, there are some in this large group who have major problems due to low payability, among other things. within the category of minimum pensioners. I think it is remarkable that the Progress Party, which says that it is among other things. The great protection of old age policy, not then, has gone further and looked at what, for example, has happened. the municipal economy means. Good municipal economy can lower the level of fees and components of the municipality's inhabitants. If you have a good community economy, the level and quality of care for the elderly can improve, and we can then have a security and quality of both home-based and institution-based care and care that we can be familiar with. When it comes to poverty, it is of a material nature – a lack of money, housing and food – and of a social, emotional nature, with the feeling of being outlawed, of having an existence that is characterized by emptiness and loneliness. In this context, we have pointed out that the volunteer centres that we have beyond the Commune-Norway are of great importance. Here you can get a meeting place, not least between young and old, between immigrants and the Norwegian population and between those who can provide support and help and who have a surplus for this, and those who need this support and help free of charge. I am very disappointed that no more are willing to give much more priority to volunteering in relation to soaking, social contact and prevention. I hope that when we come to the revised national budget, and not least to the autumn budget, there is a completely different willingness to follow up here, so that you can have a meeting place in the community of many of the disadvantaged, and can operate some of the best prevention that is in terms of this with exclusion and solitude. Finally, just a small, brief comment on the ideological debate. When Bent Höie says that we who have been for private hospitals before, when they were for the rich, it's no longer now, when they're going to be for the common people, I'd say there's a difference between the highly market-oriented hospitals that knock on now, and what we've had before, like the clinics and hospitals of the Red Cross and the Sanity Association.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e722	It beats one when one listens to a debate like this, that if it had been possible to live from political rhetoric, it would not have existed poor in Norway. It is part of the rhetoric, especially from the speakers of the SV, and partly from the speakers of the Workers' Party, which is unreasonably highest in relation to the content of the thought of what is being presented. We had a prime minister once who said everything is related to everything. When a person runs the grammophone record of tax relief to the richest, it must be allowed to remember that if we had conducted the tax policy that SV has advocated, the number of unemployed in Norway at the moment would have been much higher than it is, and the unemployed would probably have had a little bit of joy in being put on the lookout that they could raise unemployment benefits for three years. That is a policy context. The tax policy pursued by this government has slowed down the unemployment we would otherwise have had because of the flagging out of jobs. It has given us today an interest rate of 2 pst. and that means something essential for a very large number of people in this country. The ideological debate that should have been held in this context is, in my view, the following: When the number of poor people is increasing in Norway, is it because of or despite the welfare state that we have built up? At my discretion, it is more because of than in spite of that, because for too long we have believed that we should maintain all the social arrangements that have been introduced once, while trying to introduce ever new ones. Then, by hand, you get a welfare state that is being overburdened, and that also preserves museum rights. I think the most striking example of this was the debate we had on the grant of 4 000 kroner to all the people who died in Norway, for which many in this Chamber fought with beaks and claws last year, because it should be important as a social system. If we are not willing to rebuild the welfare state and remove the aid that was once justified but is no longer justified today, it will simply suffer suffocational death. Those who are going to lose on it are just the weakest. If we are to maintain free services for the entire population with ever higher purchasing power, in order to maintain the principle of universal schemes, then the differences are guaranteed to increase in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e739	There are several questions I would like to comment on. Who are the poorest? It has been said that the elderly are not much mentioned in the message. I just want to remind you that according to the definition and broad understanding of this, poor people are found in all groups, but the poorest are children's families, including single-parents, as those under the age of 45. To the representative Gunn Olsen, who only knows the expensive tailoring sea: I would think that most of the people here in the hall have grown up with tailoring seams that are adapted to the individual, but then in the home-made way. The individual and the individual adaptation are what is meant to be understood by tailoring, and not what the representative Olsen is obviously concerned with, the expensive tailoring seam. The representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, said earlier that he hears badly when I speak. It is possible that he has also done so now. Yes, I have an opinion, but I also said what measures had worked, and there are several of them. I'm going to review some of that very briefly. It is true that children in poor families have had more in children’s supplements. We have improved the conditions for these, including with regard to the child rates of what is reflected in the guidance guidelines for economic social assistance. This was among other things: measures taken in 2002. We have also improved the supply of drugs to drug users. We see that overdose deaths go down. It is too early to say whether this is permanent, but so far, both last year and this year, as a result of the actions under the action plan, this has been effective. It also has other measures. I showed in my main post – it is possible the representative did not hear it – both to Kristiansund and to Oslo, where we see a reduction in the use of hospitals and also in social spending payments – not because these cost reductions are the most important, but because social welfare beneficiaries actually come into work. And the targeted measures, which earmarked labour market measures for long-term beneficiaries, work. In particular, it concerns the qualification of immigrants. To the representative Holmås, who was busy at all talking to those who are unemployed, also immigrants, I just have to confess by saying: 'Of course, and I know them too.' The representative Joy was, I think, within something important that I would like to record. It's about humility. For poverty, not only does it include material things. It's also about the social exclusion. Here we also see the fact that preventing high school dropout actually works, and that urban youth interventions, help for homework – something so simple, but something so difficult – actually work. So I'm humble enough to say, yes, we know something that works, and a lot works, but we don't know enough about the statistics and the reporting that we have so far. And we're going to improve that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e754	This is becoming a strange debate. It spews from the great ideological debate to, I kept saying, criticizing the suggestions of others and over to honor and a little bit of each. Then some come into the hall and keep their flaming posts in the mountain valley and sweep out of the hall again, without being here to hear comments on their own post. It had been interesting if the representative Holmås after his post had been present in the hall and engaged in the debate, and not only came with his playoffs, as he did. So little to the representative Ola D. Glötvold, who called for the Progress Party and what we do in the field of old age policy. Yes, we actually show in the notes that that group is not included. At the same time, we also show it through practical policies in the issues concerned. One of the proposals includes: in the case of self-employment 2, which is just a measure to help those who are in a difficult situation. So I think Gunn Olsen's representative needs some help with reading. If she opts up on page 33 of the setting, it's under point 33. 7. The Committee's recommendation that an overall committee should present the proposals for Decisions IX, X and XI. In addition, it says: ‘The Party of Workers, the Party of Progress, the Socialist Left and the Centre shall submit proposals for Decisions I, II, III, IV, VII and VIII.’; If Gunn Olsen's representative had read the statement, she would have seen that the Progress Party is involved in a number of proposals that were not originally in the Government's communication. So at least that piece is clear. The only proposals that the Progress Party is not in favour of are the proposals for V and VI, because we disagree with the arrangement. With regard to a number of other proposals, I have to say that there too, Gunn Olsen's representative could not possibly have followed, because we said the following: we may agree with many of the proposals that are there, but we will come back to them when they notified matters, among other things. the housing message and the introduction programme for immigrants are actually coming. In this context, we will take the positions to be taken in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e770	The Socialist Left Party, with the representative Karin Andersen, did not like that I was talking about the North-South issue today. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that we see our poverty in a greater perspective. That's where we have to have the big redistribution, and that's what's the great injustice. I thought SV agreed with us on this. Regarding housing policy, I would like to say to the representatives of Meltveit Kleppa and Olsen that there will be an own housing message. That is why we are waiting to conclude today. I think we're going to agree with more proposals, but we'll see it all in a larger context. I miss the opposition saying something about the most important thing we've achieved in the Cooperative Government, namely 2 pst. in interest-rate reduction. It means a lot to people most, but not least to the local economy. Nearly SEK 1.5 billion serves the municipalities on this, that's a huge amount. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the municipalities are to be able to carry out the tasks they are to perform. And most importantly, this means the reduction in interest rates for those families that are currently falling under the concept of poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e779	It was Andersen's contribution that made me take the floor, because she repeated several times that the government parties only got glow when one talked about the need for tax relief to the rich, but did not have a real commitment to the poverty plan, which was well at the heart of the message. Now at least I'm going to say that it wasn't hard to see what sparked up in Andersen's posts, it was to continue that the main struggle is against introducing new taxes for those who create jobs, more than focusing on what can improve the situation for those who are poor. But in order to help Andersen's representative with his memory, I will refer to some of the things that are absolutely fundamental and essential, and that this government has grasped. Firstly, no one can get away from the fact that the current Social Minister is the first social minister in post-war Norway to present an action plan on poverty. Secondly, it has been presented and is in the process of implementing a fundamental reform on the drug problem and the treatment of drug users in this country. They want to establish rights for these addicts, which many of us have been talking about for very many years, but no government has ever managed to implement it – perhaps the most important thing in this area. In the next case today, a communication, which has also been submitted by this government, on the coordination of the State of Etat, the State of Social Security and Social Services is to be considered. There is a message that this big business chooses to send back, and those who are going to lose on it are exactly the users that many today have talked about so very warmly, who are then sent back from the office to the office and do not get the follow-up that they need. It is this government that has invested most in relation to the psychiatry escalation plan. These are things that make glow in the three government parties, which show that we're not just concerned with rhetoric, which maybe someone here is, but we're more concerned with implementing things that really matter to the group of people that you're talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e790	An American folk song of slightly older origin is about the son sitting on the father's deathbed, and the last words you hear his father say, which he can push forward, are: «Remember, son, the very thing that makes you rich, makes me poor.» And it's immortalized by Ry Cooder on the LP «Bop to you drop». The question is whether you believe in such mechanisms or not. Is it that by someone becoming much, much richer, other people are developing poverty? That kind of relationship SV believes in. We believe that a distribution policy that does something about that kind of difference, also does something about poverty. And that's the interesting ideological approach. Do you believe in such relationships, or do you not believe in them? One of the things that Inge Wohnung describes is a lack of faith in the fact that doing something about the distribution in society affects the situation of the poorest. And a lot of that ideology is carried out here, with a message that says that by the wealthiest getting richer, the poor get work. It's like what you're going to do is target the very poorest of some of the measures that Bent Höie calls a type of trampoline in his post. But the associations that that the trampoline gives are to a floor of concrete and reinforcement iron. It is as if instead of working with knitting hoops, let the knit be made of chain. And believing that it has effects in a society that makes you get fewer poor over time, you sense that you don't even believe in the Right. This is why it is becoming very central here: what kind of action are we going to take to prevent the distribution from becoming increasingly crooked, so that the rich get more, and the poor get less? It's clear that if the way we're going to solve it is that the richest in this society are going to have the economy to build more private airports, and that the cabins are going to be 2,000 m2 instead of 1,200 m2, so that the poor could thus be involved in building these airports and cabins, then it's a sad message that's thin to go out with in the election campaign. But so far is the message that the Right comes out with in this debate today. And I fully agree with Karin Andersen: when the Christian People's Party is unable to differentiate that message and make it sound different from what it seems to be, then the Christian People's Party has embarked on a dangerous migration from a political point of view that was quite different in the previous period of ageing, when, under the direction of the government of Bondevik, the message of expanse was presented. Because they wanted to address the differences, they talked about a policy of equalization and a policy of distribution that meant that the rich would be involved and contribute in a way that is different from what they have done now. It is clear that the majority of the political majority in this Chamber have also done something about the will to guide society in a direction where the differences are decreasing. I would say that this is an important ideological debate. You have to respect that there may be different views, but I notice that the Minister for Social Affairs will not go into that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e802	First to the Christian People's Party: Yes, SV is very happy that the Christian People's Party is concerned with poverty in other countries. So are we. But then we cannot pursue a comprehensive policy in terms of trade, foreign policy, fiscal policy, either at home or outside, which says that we must allow the richest to get the right to run, and that it is their arguments that should apply: that only we are rich enough, we create some jobs, and then it drips a little on poor people. It's not like that. This is an old theory of evolution called trickle down, and it doesn't work. Creating a welfare society for all is a political act, not a market that can create it. All people will certainly try to get to it in every possible context, and if you have the opportunity to be very rich, people will. My point is not to moralize over it, but we politicians have a responsibility to say that something is more important than anything else. Then we must not bow down to those who say: "must have it, just have it, as it is said in the advertisement now." And because I deserve it, I'm going to have more than the others – then it's going to be best. So for a big problem for the poor today. Once upon a time, the poor were very many, and they were the most important labour force. They actually had a tool that they could use in the fight for their rights: they had their workforce. Today the poor are social security; they are social welfare recipients; they are drug users; they are immigrants without work; they have no labour force to retire, because they are not at work. They're split, and they're partly set up against each other in Norwegian society today. That's why there's a political act of value that can bring about a change in this, not that they're going to pull their sails up after their hair, as the government now believes. I have no faith that if you are sick and without work, you can better recover health and get the courage to take on life if you become even more concerned that you can't pay your bills – when you see the bill pile growing, when you're unsure if you're able to pay rent, or if you might have to move for the fourth time, when the kids have to change kindergarten or school, and that all the friends you once got, you have to replace one more time. I have no faith in this strategy. The problem with the Government is that they have presented a whole that creates poverty. That's what's our biggest charge against the government parties for what they've done. It's not that they have submitted a message of poverty, that's for the record, but when everything else they do goes in the wrong direction and in the opposite direction, there's nothing to distribute praise for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e811	These are the choices that the Government makes in its practical policy, which is alarming. In that context, I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Social Affairs: Is it that 335 million? to a plan of action against poverty was the maximum it could use in relation to groups in need of help? Or could the Council of State easily put in more funds for disadvantaged groups – for the disabled, for the sick and for the unemployed – if she had had any of the money that the Government distributed into tax havens? So to the Christian People's Party: I share the joy of the Christian People's Party over the interest rate, but I'm surprised that the Christian People's Party, which is now going to intensify its social commitment, teas in the whole taxet that they themselves have been in, to the richest – and then on top of that, has to adapt to additional tax laws because the Right is going to push them to it, it's black out of government statements. So to the community economy and what it means for them as tired. It's an important point that now stands for falling in our no reasonable equivalent society, and it's the common arena that most children and young people have had through a good and common school. Now the government is streaming into the local economy. Now, the rules for the private spheres are changed, with a risk of fragmentation of the community in the long term, but, above all, by the signal given that you have money, you can now arrange a better school for your kids. It also loses an important common value in our society. So to the welfare arrangements: I'm a union with Inge Wage at one point, that there's going to be a continuous improvement in our welfare arrangements. However, it is not necessary to make people with disabilities, the unemployed and the sick feel more insecure. You need to know more about security. Unfortunately, when it comes to housing, the Government is streamlining the House Bank as a tool. Getting housing becomes harder, and it's while you're waiting for the housing message. If a few are to fight poverty, a few have to make a better distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e822	The reason why I asked for the floor again was that the representative of Ballos said something, which disappointed me quite seriously. The only thing Ballo contributed was to increase the volume of sound in the rhetoric from SV's side, but he did not come with a single input to the content of thought. And this rhetoric about wealth and poverty helps absolutely no one else but those who build themselves up by showing their commitment and giving their own certificates of commitment to that commitment. The issue of tax policy disagreements has been the taxation of jobs. And then it's a crossroads that some people might think that in today's situation in Norway someone would do a service by increasing the taxation of jobs in a situation where more and more jobs are being out of the question because the conditions in Norway are no longer possible to compete with. It is quite shocking in its irresponsibleness to present this in the way SV does. The really interesting question is: What is the distribution effect that SV believes it has on maintaining universal support schemes for all those who have a more than high enough purchasing power to pay for the services themselves? What is the distribution effect of insisting on maintaining universal arrangements with the same crowning amount for each recipient, regardless of need? It has the opposite of a social distribution effect. It just helps effectively to counteract the fact that something can be done for those who really need help — and at some point the Labour Party and the SV must also be willing to enter seriously into that debate. If you are not willing to join that debate, you will never be able to solve the poverty problem in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e829	Ola D. Glötvold has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e832	Yes, that's a note in relation to what the Progress Party said about its old age policy. The Progress Party would come back to the proposals and see the whole thing, said the representative Nesvik. However, the whole of the fight against poverty should be dealt with and debated now, in the context of this action plan. Then we would like to say that the action plan is by no means complete and complete. But then each actor in this room will try to contribute to that. And what is poverty? There is a lack of something that we regard as covering basic needs, whether it is of a material nature or of a more social and emotional nature. E.g.: I mentioned the feeling of exclusion and loneliness, which affects very many older people in today's society. This is absent in the policy of the Progress Party, in my view, not least in the consideration of this action plan. The representative, Nesvik, mentioned the self-employed scheme 2 and that one should have an extension of that scheme. Yes, there is quite a broad political consensus on that. But why couldn't the Progress Party go along with the Center Party and say that the equity stake should not be set at NOK 4 500, but at NOK 3000 because today's system is so incomplete?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e843	To the representative of Meltveit Kleppa, who may have left the hall but asked a question, I would say that in 2002–03, government action, which is targeted and intended to help people out of poverty, is close to 600 million. kr. The government's policy, which has led to a lower interest rate of 2 percentage points, also benefits the poor and those who are the most difficult, and especially families with children. Nor should it be surprising that the government's policy of securing jobs in relation to taxation policy, and reducing unemployment, are also important issues in such a whole. Then I just want to stress that well it is that we target action in an action plan against poverty, but there are tens of billions of dollars there in general welfare schemes. This is also about targeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e850	I should have asked for the word of a manifest misunderstanding, because I understand that wages have perceived it so that it is the jobs we want to live and not the person income that the different employer takes from their companies – because that is how wages argue. We have argued for relief in the employer's fee, in order to seek to maintain the differentiated employer's fee in order to prevent the loss of jobs. We have refused to extend the employer’s period in the case of sickness benefits. We have argued that we should eliminate the prob lems on the organisation of the workplace for people with disabilities. We have wanted to facilitate the maintenance of profitable jobs in Norway, rather than moving them abroad. I could have mentioned a number of such measures just to ensure that there is no loss of jobs that makes people unemployed. An example of that is what is happening within SAS today. Where's the right there? Where is the Minister of Industry in relation to that process? But what we think, on the other hand, is that facilitating the removal of significant revenue from these companies that is to be taxed very low cannot be a clever way to do it to secure jobs and develop them further. And now that I understand that wages do not distinguish between the two relationships, it is also understandable that he interprets SV's policy in the direction that he thinks it is. But it's never been like that. In this sense, I think it is reasonable for him to receive both our work programme and our policy development programme in this area, so that he can read more carefully what our policy is really about. Because in all the areas I have mentioned now, often against the Right's votes, we have called for the possibility of creating jobs in Norway to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e859	No pay has also spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e862	Ballo is trying to run the debate into another track. The starting point was the violent rhetoric of Karin Andersen and Heikki Holmås, who ran the usual record of the enormous tax reliefs of the government program. The largest part of what has been implemented so far is the investment tax, which has a direct bearing on jobs. At the same time, in the last week, all media have been packed with politicians who are concerned that Norwegian companies should not be sold out, and that there is a need for risk capital in Norway. It actually also has jobs to do with, and I thought that Ballo was able to perceive. That's exactly what this is all about. There is no complaint that there is no risk capital in Norway and at the same time conduct a tax and tax policy that SV does – which would break the last of the rest that had to be back – and instead bet on 100 pst. State capitalism.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e869	For many years SV has heard this type of attack from the Right. They are just as unqualified today as they have been before. To believe that SV does not want Norwegian business well is, of course, a significant exaggeration. Of course, Norwegian business needs — like many — incentives to improve. What lies in SV's enterprise policy is conversion. You give more to Norwegian business than you get. It is provided in the form of research and lower charges in a number of areas, while at the same time providing for a transition in the business world – which I believe is also of interest and concern to the Right. The various tax relief proposals made by the Government have only limited support for Norwegian business. Let me mention the investment fee. Here you went for a relief of NOK 7 billion. In principle, all Norwegian industry and also Norwegian agriculture had a derogation from the investment tax. This was a charge that mainly hit the private service industry: hotels, shops, restaurants – what else it had to be of offices. For all of these it is certainly good that this fee is gone, but have we, as consumers, got something left for it? Has it increased the competitiveness of Norwegian hotels, Norwegian shops or what it might be? Nope. This has largely resulted in increased dividends for the owners. This leads to richer people being reinvested in Norwegian business. Is this what happened? To a large extent, Norwegian business life is unfortunately too poor for Norwegian capitalists and lacks the long-term perspective of many other countries, not least in Sweden, which is being developed. If the Norwegian tax pressure destroys Norwegian investment capacity or Norwegian capitalists’ desire to invest in Norwegian business, it is striking that the average tax pressure in Sweden is more than 10 pst. higher than in Norway. In Norway, 42 pst goes. of all the dollars entered into the public fund, in Sweden over 53 pst. In Sweden, you have a thriving business life – even on private hands. The point is that tax alone is just one of many components that determine whether you have a viable, good business. Let me give you an example. There's a lot of things to say about American business, but in the United States you have a significantly lower tax rate than you have in Norway. However, they have many other expenditures, which in Norway are paid through the tax, and which in other countries are paid by others. Ford Automobile pays – as an example – an average of over $50 per person. car only in pension costs for its employees. I think that is in significant disfavor of a publicly funded pension system. The point of saying all this is the following: Norwegian business has fortunately many skilled employees and many skilled leaders – and a great future ahead of them. We have to play teams with Norwegian business. But playing on layers of Norwegian business is not just to say that you want tax relief in every form – there is no industrial policy in just saying tax relief, anyone can say it. We need a targeted commitment to research, development, innovation and empowerment that enables Norwegian business to bear a higher cost level than many other countries, simply because we want to finance the welfare state. That's because this right doesn't want to go inward.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e884	It may seem that the debate is coming to an end. In this last article, it was not easy to see anything about the action plan against poverty. Bent Höie has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e890	The poor are now in the process of disappearing from the debate, because SV has a strong need to defend a policy that would obviously have led to poorer conditions for business — and thus higher unemployment — in the difficult situation that both Norway and the countries around us are in. There is no doubt that the SV's policy in sum would have major negative consequences. It doesn't remove the fact – as this debate is about, and as I pointed out in my post – that SV's commitment here is just going on what we were now shown by the representative Djupedal: His commitment, and also Karin Andersen's, is going on the possibility of taxing the rich – as they say. They accuse us of somehow giving tax relief to the rich – while what we do is giving tax relief to business. The government’s commitment in this area is precisely to refer to concrete measures for the poor in Norway. As you can see, Øystein Djupedal's articles were a good illustration of what SV places on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e899	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2814]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e915	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e926	Critical analyses of our public welfare system have, over a number of years, focused on the issue of wasteball. What has been involved are clients who have received inadequate or little relevant help from the welfare system. There are clients who have been partly in contact with Aetat, the Social Security Agency and social services. The various agencies have set up what their department has been able to help, or they have sent clients on to another office that has been better equipped to help. Casting clients tend to be people with complex needs and problems, often involving a combination of social, economic and medical problems. The way our auxiliaries are organised means that clients only get solved parts of their problem. The organisation does not provide the opportunity to put clients in the centre, so that a comprehensive solution can be found. The result for the individual is often that a person hangs on and remains in a client situation. When welfare clients do not need help to solve their problems, the social outcome is that the number of clients is increasing, whether they are unfavourable or social clients. This is what an overall committee has expressed its concern about when dealing with various welfare messages and budgets. I therefore believe that I can say that the Committee is quite unanimous on the problem description and the intentions behind the unanimous decision taken in the Stortinge in connection with the budgetary procedure in the autumn of 2001. The proposal was worded as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to examine the question of a single social security, social security and social security unit and to present the matter to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner during 2002.’ The decision and the immediate start of the government's investigation created a great enthusiasm, both in the two state levels and in the municipal administration. User organisations also expressed great expectations about a reform that would solve problems and difficulties they had had for several years. Many were so optimistic that they actually saw the possibility of a pooling, uniform welfare law in the future, and that one might think towards a welfare right that could replace the more limited social security right of today. I mention this because it tells something about what opportunities and perspectives many saw for themselves through a welfare reform that meant a holistic and coherent welfare management. Many were therefore disappointed and, at best, surprised by the Government’s proposals, which did not provide the basis for a decision or a description of what a unified administration could look like. On the contrary, the Government's proposal maintains the principle of three independent bodies, which the majority of the Committee believes would mean that the problem of throwing ball is not solved. It may be that the proposal could provide better solutions to some problems, but at the same time it will create new dividing lines, new grey areas, and thus new clients experiencing the gambling effect. In order to achieve a genuine uniform administration, the municipal social action cannot be excluded or based on voluntary activity. The majority of the Committee points to the fact that users of social benefits are, to a large extent, also those who need complex services and therefore have to relate to the social security system as well as to Aetat and the municipal service system. As I said, the Committee has previously been unanimous in its decisions on the problem description, and as far as I understand it remains firm. However, the Committee is divided into its assessments as to whether the Government's proposals provide an adequate solution to this problem. The majority are of the opinion that the Government’s proposal does not, and that it does not comply with the decision taken by the Stortinget in the past. The majority also consider that the manufacturing provided in the notification does not provide an adequate basis for decision-making on such a major reform. There is a background to the proposal for a retransmission of the Communication to the Government, and there is a background to the proposal for a new study on different models of a single welfare centre, consisting of the current Aetat, the Social Security Agency and the Social Affairs Act. Merging these agencies will be one of the largest social reforms in Norwegian welfare history. It will cover several hundreds of thousands of users and approx. 15 000 employees, both with experience and views on solutions. It is therefore important to include user organisations and employee organisations in the work on the reform. Similarly, it is important that both the social security system and the Aetat, the municipalities and the KS are involved in the further work. The issue of coordination of the Aetat, social security and social services is not of a new date, but has been on the agenda from the 1970s onwards. Some common features of these projects are that through project organisation, we have been given the opportunity to use more tools than is available to the individual department. The organisation’s starting point has been the transfer of Aetat’s, Social Security and Social Agency instruments to the project together with financial resources and personnel. It is the social service that has driven these attempts to do the most. The background for this is probably related to the fact that this is where we find most clients in need of cross-country assistance, and those who have experienced the strongest consequences of being caste balls in the system. During the processing of this message I have been in contact with many municipalities, many localities and social security authorities. It is clear that there is enormous experimental activity in this area. There are different models of coordination and different degrees of unit management. What has also struck me is that the work is characterized by enormous enthusiasm and a great belief that this is the future of welfare management. And what has struck me after the government has made its proposal is that it seems that the local commitment and the local thinking about the unit management have come much further into the local environments than the message has been able to come up with, and that the notification has made little use of these experiences. You are now given a new assignment by the government. It also requires that a decision on a major reform be postponed. However, it is important that the current enthusiasm for the experimental activities in this area be stimulated and that the Ministry actively facilitates increased experimental activities in parallel with the work to be done with a new investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e961	The time is ripe for a reform that can improve coordination between our welfare services. Through the Government’s major communication on coordination of the Aetat, Social Security and Social Services, the Stortinget has been given the opportunity to draw up guidelines for the further work of the Government to coordinate these welfare services, so that more people can move from social security to work, and those who rely on the use of more public agencies should avoid becoming victims of the problem of gambling. This chance seems to be that today the Storting will let itself go, by a majority of the Social Committee having decided to send the big message back to the Government. It is the unemployed, the unemployed and the social clients who become losers if the opposition decides today to send back to the Government the big message of coordination of the Aetat, the social security system and the social services. As users, they depend on a well-functioning service provider. The decision-making refusal that the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party now show by not addressing the message leads to a severe delay in improving the welfare services of users. It is also a paradox that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Progress Party are in favour of postponing a reform which would provide better assistance to those who are outside the labour market, when the same parties at the same time express great impatience in the fight against unemployment. Earlier today, we discussed the action plan against poverty. From some parties a violent commitment was shown on behalf of the worst of society. It was probably just a shower with the springs. Because what's happening now is that in the first place, where the Stortinget has a real chance of giving more people a chance to get to work, and a chance to help those who have the most difficulty in improving the organisation of welfare services, the same parties are waving away. The government asked in December 2001 to investigate the issue of a single social, labour and social security unit. The Government has done so within the time limit set. The government has delivered what Stortinget has asked for, while also investigating other models and evaluating the continuation of today's organisation. It is natural that the Government wants to assess different models in such a comprehensive reform, and it is also the government's more solar right to recommend the model Government itself seems to be the one that solves the problem the best way. St.meld. No 14 is an important part of the Government's work on modernising public administration, where user rights, efficiency and simplification are the key objectives. Therefore, requirements for the outcome of a reorganisation of welfare services, which is addressed by this big business message, will be more active in work and active activities and fewer in social security and social assistance, a user-oriented and efficient welfare management. In addition to assessing the continuation of today’s organisation, the government has looked at three different models for the reorganisation of welfare services. Unfortunately, this has become a matter that concerns the return of the paper to the Government, and not how to get better and more coordinated welfare arrangements, I am not going to go into a comprehensive discussion of the different models. One model is a single entity, more specifically a state joint entity, which outlines two different options for demarcation in relation to the community social service. Such an establishment would include today's social security, Aetat and parts of today's social work. This model is not recommended by the Government. The main reason is the opposition to the extensive government-making of tasks that are currently municipal, and the risk of conflicts of objectives and priorities in a 15 000 staff establishment with many different objectives and tasks. Furthermore, a model setting up one State Income Protection Unit and one Municipal Service Unit has been assessed. The State assumes all responsibility for security of income and other social transfers and collects them in a single establishment. Municipalities are responsible for all measures aimed at getting people to work and for all social services. The government does not recommend this model either. The organisational solution chosen by the Government is a reorganised state welfare management with a single unit for work and related benefits, a so-called ‘work budget’, and one unit for pensions and family benefits, a so-called ‘retirement pension’. Today's municipal responsibility for social services continues. In order to coordinate services and to allow users to access one barrier, a common first line service between the State and the municipality is recommended. The communication submitted by the Government therefore aims at a whole new organisation of services in order to provide better and more coordinated services. It's going to end that users have to run from office to office, and become throwing balls between different levels. The government's proposal would give users one place to contact, through a common first-line service for all three agencies. Users with complex needs would have a fixed adviser to deal with. With the Government's proposals, users would experience a single establishment. With regard to the organisation of the first line service, there are issues of appropriate solutions. In the opinion of the Committee, the opposition criticises the fact that the Government has little respect for the wishes of the Stortingen to investigate a single establishment for the social, labour and social security sectors. The size of the store has been fulfilled. The government has investigated the issue of a single establishment, even in two different variants. That the government chooses to recommend another solution is a completely different matter. The fact that the issue of throwing ball is not solved by the government's proposal for a solution is also not correct. The most important thing is how the individual user is met, and according to the Government’s proposal, the user will be met by a common first-line service. If he is referred to further, he does not even have to notice that there are different offices. In addition, the proposal proposes that simple enquiries and requests be resolved precisely at this common barrier. But regardless of whether the opposition disagrees with this solution and wants something else, it is completely unnecessary to send the matter back to the Government. It has now been able to provide the Government with guidance on how it wants the Government to complete the job of reorganising welfare services for almost six months. That the government has chosen a different solution than the opposition wants, does not mean that the opposition needs to lose its mouth and measure and make itself the paralytic of action. A wholesale notification shall not answer all detailed questions but clarify the policy platform on which the reform is to be based. The government has submitted a proposal within the short period set by Stortinget, and the government parties have also been willing to discuss different solutions. We have also been open to ask for partial investigations, if that was something you wanted to clarify. The opposition has not used these possibilities to move forward in its work. And to be perfectly honest, I'm not so sure if the opposition knows what it wants either. In any case, the comments in the position of the Social Committee indicate that. No guidelines are provided. It is only noted that there is no satisfaction and that there is a desire to re-examine the different models of one common welfare office, consisting of today's Aetate, social security and social security. The opposition has not taken a decision as to whether it should be State or municipal. It is not particularly impressive after having had the matter for almost half a year. Let it be said immediately that the government parties agree with the Government that labour market policy and the management of pensions and social security should remain a state administrative responsibility and not be left to the individual municipality. It would have been interesting in the subsequent debate to find out if the only thing there is an agreement is that the message is sent back to the Government. Are there no parties in this majority who know what direction they want? Is it the case that we have to wait to know whether the Progress Party will go to transfer the labour market seat to the municipalities, whether the Workers' Party and the Centre want social services to become state-owned or whether SV will transfer responsibility for payments of the pension to the municipalities? Why does the majority of the committee not use the possibility to give the Government signals about the direction they want when they first send the message back? Do they not agree, or is the matter so difficult that they must let the Government do it separately? In any event, the return will lead to an unnecessary postponement of the necessary reform. The users, the unemployed, the disadvantaged and the social clients are becoming losers. The majority appear to be more concerned with the organisation behind the barrier than with ensuring coordinated, comprehensive services ahead of the barrier. For the right, however, the user's concern comes first. No matter what reasons you have for return, it's totally unacceptable that the user becomes the victim of what I'd call a political game.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e999	I must first make a few comments on the posts of the representative Beate Heieren Hundhammer. It was a strange way to go into a matter where the government actually gets criticism that you have not done the job that Stortinget has asked it to do. The representative put it in such a way that I thought there had been elections yesterday, and that we had got a majority government, and that we don't have a government that actually has to deal with what the Storting asks for. But that's possible that's what you wanted. I would also like to point out when the representative Heieren Hundhammer says that it is the Stortingen that has a decision-making refusal, that this is not the case. It is the government that has actually not done its job. The size has said that we should have one store, and then I think the government has to do that job. The case rapporteur presented the matter in an excellent way, and I can join in most of her contributions. It was with reasonable surprise that it was found that the presentation of this big message could seem as if the Government did not intend to follow a unanimous decision of the 2001 budgetary procedure, which in fact states: ‘The Government asks the Government to examine the question of a single social security, social security and social security unit and to present the matter to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner during 2002.’ As the Progress Party sees it, the Government in this case has chosen not to follow up this decision. That's why one has now come into a situation where the majority has no choice but to send the matter back to the Government. Although it may seem that the Government is suffering a fairly large defeat in this matter, it is the country's inhabitants who are the great loser, because the matter is now most likely to run out in time because, at least after the opinion of the Progress Party and my opinion, too poor a job is done by the Government and the Department. If the Government had followed up the intention of the Storting's unanimous decision, we would have been able today to deal with a matter which had been based on putting the user in focus in a much better way than is the case today. The three establishments mentioned have so many tasks that they affect each other that it is no longer appropriate to operate according to today's model. There is no concealment that the model that the Progress Party wants and that the representative Heieren Hundhammer also requested is a common state welfare office where one puts the user in focus – and does not send him from door to door. This feels too much like an extra strain in a situation where many people feel that the problems have already towered up. However, we choose to look at several models here, so you don't get stuck in one model. We want this to be further investigated. The majority’s proposal is not to be misunderstood this time, and the Progress Party expects the Government to follow up its decision more satisfactorily this time, and also to do so at a pace that shows that it really wants to get into a public sector for the benefit of its citizens. When this case comes back to Stortinget, the party of progress will go further into the arrangements themselves for the appearance of this welfare office. I expect today, in fact, that the Council of State will assure the Storting that she will follow up the decision of the Storting which is taken today, and that she will ensure that this matter is quickly brought back to consideration. In the debate in the first place today, The representative Vihövde from the Left, when she referred to this case, that this could mean several years of postponement. This does not harmonize with what the representative Heieren Hundhammer from one of the government parties has pointed out. The representative says that you have worked out one joint establishment, and pointed out a couple of models, and then you put forward a completely different case. But if you had done the thorough preparatory work to which this is shown, it can't take so long and so many years before you arrive at a final result and a case to present to the Stortinget, as the Stortinget has asked – namely, one joint establishment. It's important that we get these things in place. As the Progress Party sees it, the model that the Government has come up with and has chosen to present to the Stortinget – with one job rate, one pension rate and where it is recommended that the social offices also participate in the same office – is nothing more than today's service office. That's not the model Stortinget has asked for. You will not get to the end of this ball game issue that was discussed by the President-in-Office of the Council. You send a person who might need to be inside all three of these floors, on a new hike, because there are actually watertight bulkheads between the different floors, even if you call it something else. There will be considerable differences between municipalities and municipalities as to whether they want to enter their social offices. In terms of this with the new working rate and the retirement rate, we will be able to get the exact same problems that we have today. The government model doesn't solve any problems, but can quickly lead to some new ones. Another problem that will also arise with such a model in the future will be the first to undergo a major reorganisation in the social security and labour market sectors, and then split it up again into two new establishments. The social act should then come in as a few-to-be-with-premises, it seems like in this model. This won't solve any problems. I hope that the Government and the Minister of Social Affairs can now guarantee that this work will be started, and come back to Stortinget with a matter of one office as soon as possible – just to ensure that users are not hit. This was the representative Heieren Hundhammer inside his post, but the government is unfortunately responsible for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1028	I followed with interest the speech by the representative Heieren Hundhammer on behalf of the Right, because what is said here is in many ways that one has to do with a parliament that behaves improperly towards a minority government. The majority of this Parliament is not willing to comply with the directives given by the Government. It's a way of looking at parliamentaryism as at least I see it as completely new. It is in fact the Government that must ensure the parliamentary basis for what is laid down, and that basis is not present in this Chamber. What you can wonder about, both in this case and in a number of things we now see coming from the Government, is that the government has not secured a majority in advance, so as to be amazed that the majority is dissatisfied with the fact that you have not received what you ordered. That's what's happening here. The leaders put forward are so clear in terms of working within a common public authority, in order to find out different solutions, that when the Government proposes in practice one social action, one employment rate and one pension and family budget, the answer to the request is not the one requested by the Storting. It is possible that the government can live comfortably with the fact that, on a case-by-case basis, proposals are being made to the Stortinget that Stortinget does not see itself satisfied with and must send back, but the government itself has to take responsibility for delays in the processes. The SV has been busy for a long time, since our last national meeting in 2001, is working on getting to the common public service. This means that the individual user should have one door to go to where you can turn, and that regardless of the reason why you depend on public assistance, you should be able to get that help in that office, in that department. It is clear that this offers significant opportunities that you do not have today. What we often see in relation to the individual user is, as others have also said, that you become a throwball in a system where you easily define responsibility over to the next level. An example is that someone who has not entered into a job and who has over time received social assistance is going to the employment office to receive a daily allowance, but has not worked up the right to it. Neither does he, because he does not have a job, have a right to sickness benefit. Wherever you go, you're going to see it in the system. Maybe you end up with a kind of social welfare that doesn't bring you any further. And instead of receiving that benefit as a short-term benefit, you go on it for a long time, without having the opportunity to move on. This means that we in SV believe that one thing is that you have to work to get to a joint establishment that has a common goal of exercising assistance, another thing that you also have to look at the law. If you think that you should both look at and develop a common public body and that you should also develop a new piece of legislation in this area, this is one of the biggest, perhaps the biggest, reforms we have faced in modern times in Norway. The idea of thinking, when the government proposes something quite different, that the Storting itself should develop this, and that the Storting itself should accurately describe exactly what this should be like, without giving organisations the opportunity to indulge in that process, cannot be taken seriously by the government parties. It is clear that if the Government had made different alternatives visible within the scope of the order, and had different hearing bodies made a decision on it, they would have had the opportunity to go further. But that possibility has been cut off by the Government, so that there will be no alternative solutions here but to ask the Government to do the job that the Storting has actually ordered. When the government says it also wants to do something about this, SV hopes that this time you take the order more seriously than you did the first time. And once again, to put it that way, it's clear that today's systems, which we were also involved in the poverty debate, don't stimulate you to quickly get the help that makes you self-held. We see that social welfare schemes are formulated in a way that excludes many from social security benefits. I would say that there is one term you should have looked at more closely, and that is the term social disability. We know that there is so-called sickness, injury or suffering, there are opportunities within the people's protection system for the individual, where one could have rights based on both sickness, rehabilitation and rehabilitation, which is not least important in terms of obtaining a suitable job, or in some cases in case of permanent disability, a permanent disability pension. We know that there are many in society who may have had a difficult upbringing, alcoholic parents, unsafe frameworks around their entire growth, and perhaps a school that you have never completed, and that in the real sense does not have a disease, but is what I want to characterize as socially disabled. It is inappropriate to work, and it is very much in need of assistance at a difficult stage of life to get out of today's situation. Today, however, there will be no possibility for a person to get out of this legislation other than by seeking help from the social office, which has no apparatus related to vocational rehabilitation, or has some longer-term benefits that allow for self-help. What we in SV believe is that, in parallel with working for the common public service, we need to look at how to adapt the social welfare law to social security legislation. We're not going to announce that we have a phased response to it today, but we should look at what kind of opportunities exist to integrate groups that are now outside, in a long-term perspective, in such a way that we can provide help to all those who have problems in the long term. What is at the bottom of this argument is not that more over time should be permanently disabled, but that more over time should be able to become self-held by targeted assistance. It is clear that, within such a joint body, there will be opportunities for those who are highly educated in the field of employment training, vocational retraining and long-term contacts with the general working life tailored to individual needs. You could have someone who has special skills related to social benefits, and you could have someone who has special skills related to social problems, but then within the common establishment, so that you don't have to walk from door to door. We are excited to see the government return to Stortinget, and we want to be a constructive partner. But the government can't expect the Storting to be flat for solutions that are in conflict with what the Storing has asked for, just because the Government comes with a document to the Storing without having questioned whether there is a majority that supports the direction of it. I must say that I am sincerely surprised at how little humility the government parties show in this respect in order to resolve this matter in an appropriate way for those who need it, the different users who are today recipients of different kinds of social and social benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1050	Following a decision in the United Kingdom on 12 December 2001, the Government was asked to settle the issue of a joint social, labour and social security unit before the end of 2002. This was nothing new for the Government. Already in the Sem Declaration, the Government will: ‘coordinate the work of municipal social offices, state social security offices and the labour market seat for, inter alia: bringing people back to work quickly». They are all aware that there is a need for a new system to prevent users from being thrown balls between their etats because they need to cross these levels. We often get this to the right, for example. from the media through personal contact. The government took this challenge, despite the very short time given, and a good down-to-earth message was delivered within the deadline. The government has done the job that Stortinget asked them to do. During the management of the social committee, both the case spokesperson and the other members were informed that the government was open to answer questions, deepening what had to be unclear, and providing services for handling in Stortinget. The government party was also willing to cooperate with the opposition in the management of the committee, and was also open to adjust the government's arrangement if necessary. With St.meld. No 14 the Government has chosen its model. Of course, if the Storting wants another one, the Storting is free to do it. A management of the facts would at least give a signal as to how a reform can be carried out. This applies, for example: the question of whether a joint establishment should be municipal or whether it should be state-owned. Returning the message therefore leaves a blank space and a question about the opposition does not know what they want. The opposition draws its hands in the weather and asks for new arrangements, rather than going into reality and taking a decision on the choice of the model. Even though I realize that it may be complicated, it is not possible to allow it to weigh up the consequences it has for the users. And when it comes to the consequences, who gets this consequences for? For us here in the main hall, the consequences are minimal. The extent to which this happens is that users of welfare services are the highest. By going back to the beginning, a reform is likely to take place only in 2005, and then it will be a long time before it can be implemented. In an area where there was an inability to achieve something, users will still be throwing balls between the eta and be harmed because of this. It is also paradoxical that the opposition will postpone a reform that will provide better help to those outside the labour market, at the same time as one goes high in the fight against unemployment. One must dare to ask a question here when one has heard the debate we just had in relation to poverty. When a concrete action is put forward, the opposition is not there, and then I have to ask the question of whether the entire previous debate was a rhetorical debate. The postponement of this reform also means that the 15 000 people who had started mentally to prepare for the changes still have to face an uncertain time. However, there is no reason for the experimental work being done to stop, but there is also room for testing new models. In the big city announcement, which was made on Friday, the government states that Stavanger is responsible for coordinating social services, social security and Aetat for a trial period of four years. This allows you to test your Government's senior policy, which requires multiple tasks to be solved and decisions to be taken closer to the population. Seeing welfare arrangements in conjunction with other municipal tasks can provide users with a simpler, safer and more individual handling. Whatever the solution is, and how the service should be designed, it is crucial for users that the service is of good quality, that it is available in a place, and that users should not have to stick to different offices and case handlers. This left St.meld. No 14 up to. To me, it seems alarming and disappointing that an opposition is unable to decide which model to choose, so users of the welfare services are allowed to become the losers. It is unacceptable that a political game like this leads to users having to wait a long time before they get a place to contact and a fixed contact person. What the opposition is doing today will not solve any problem, it will only reinforce today's problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1081	The rapporteur of the case, Britt Hildeng, has provided broad guidance and justification for the majority’s views on the return of this case and St.meld. No 14th @item: In the autumn of 2001, a total increase asked the Government to address the issue of a single social, labour and social security unit and to present the matter to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner during 2002. When we gave this mandate, it was expected from the parties who now refuse to go further and adopt what is the government's recipe, that one should go deeper into it and get a more complete investigation than what has come. The representative Heieren Hundhammer made up for a violent race, I think, in relation to the parties that are now sending the case back. I have to say that the representative of the Christian People's Party also had an argument, and some conclusions about the majority's position, which becomes something like Erasmus Montanus. I also think that Heieren Hundhammer dishes bakers for blacksmiths when she accuses the majority of the Stortinge today that it is those who will help that there will be no arrangement for the users of these floors. In fact, the government must take the blame itself, because they have done a bad job and have not delivered the goods that they asked for. It is true that when it comes to making proposals in line with what was requested, this has not been done well enough. The process has also been too poor, and the impact of the investigation is too thin in relation to what can be expected of implementation and implementation in this reform. The reform is large and heavy and difficult – it has to be admitted – but it has to be an investigation and a decision-making basis in line with the importance of this major reform. There are a lot of workers, there is a lot of equipment, and there is a lot of technological investment to be made, and then it should at least be expected that representatives of employees and employees' offices were sufficiently involved in the preparation of the notification. This has not happened, nor have the user organisations felt that they have been duly heard in the investigation process that the Government has had. There are some of the big defects. And then I'm going to admit, in great humility, that it's hard to say what kind of model you can go for today. The majority here also say that they haven't taken their stand on whether a joint establishment should be state-owned or municipal, and that they want an investigation of both. Furthermore, we suggest that there should be good participation from the relevant departments in this investigation, so that this work can be carried out in the best possible way and – perhaps there is also reason to say – a fairest possible way, so that resources are not used in the run-up to good user arrangements, because this is a major change and a large amount of resources. There's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1094	I think it was the way in which I and the representative Inge Wohnning agreed that there was a rather high rhetorical level in the previous debate. My ambition was not to conduct the debate on this matter at the same level, but I became a little uncertain after hearing the Loud Chief Speaker, Heieren Hundhammer. There has never been any ambition for the Workers' Party to describe what is going to happen in this case today, as a defeat for the Government, that the Government is going on a loss, etc. in Stortinget. There have been no joint press conferences or anything else between the opposition parties to underline that dimension in the case. I want to stress that I believe the bulk of the population is so absolutely aware that this is a major and important reform. It is a big and important thing that the Storting has just initiated. But what's a fact is that the bulk of the population disagrees with the government's proposal for a model. The majority of the population believe that they asked for an investigation of one joint establishment, but in its opinion this has not been sufficiently determined. And it's really going to be hopeless that the government comes and says that the matter is kind of settled, and that the Storting doesn't really understand its own best if the bulk of the population is of a different opinion. Then we have to continue the dialogue a little bit. So from this room we have to insist that the basis for our decision-making is what we need to decide, we have to define ourselves. Instead of describing this as a problem for the majority of the population, I think the Council of State is wise to spend some time now going into it and considering why it is such that the Council of State is now losing one case after another in the Grand Duchy. If the Council of State makes it a problem for the majority of population, she has a problem. The Labour Party believes that a thorough investigation of precisely what the Storting has asked for, i.e. one joint establishment, needs to be carried out and that it is important to stress that it includes one common first line service. It is important to stress that we in the Workers' Party are serious about the need for a thorough investigation in this area. Then I agree with Beate Heieren Hundhammer that there is an obvious problem related to the choice of one joint establishment, whether it should be state or municipal. There is a debate on this in the Labour Party, and there is a debate on it among user groups and among employees. So it's a social debate, and it's a difficult debate with many arguments both for and against. And just a thorough analysis, to weigh for and against different sides associated with one joint establishment, is what we feel the government has done too bad a job on. Among other things, as many have stressed, thorough processes in involving employees and users in order to obtain broad analysis of such a demanding issue are not carried out. So you could say that Stortinget set a very short deadline. This message should be completed and presented during 2002. I can see that it was a very short deadline, and that it might not have been possible to meet Storting's expectations with such a short deadline. But what surprises me is that the Council of State does not then come to the Storting, either to the individual parties or to the Committee, and says, "Listen, what the Storing has now asked for, is so demanding that we need some more time." If the Council of State had come to me, she would at least have come to a great understanding of such an enquiry. But the problem here is that we haven't heard a word from the Council of State about that problem. Instead, we are getting a message that the majority of the population today notes is not what we have asked for. I regret that this leads to a postponement, but the worst thing that can now happen to the users is that the Storting takes the wrong choice in terms of the model.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1111	The President will assume that going into himself is a demanding exercise. But it's the state council that's on its way, so she'll have to try.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1115	I think I stick to the matter. Better coordination of welfare services has been central to the political debate in Norway for many years. That is also the background for the matter we are debating today. The need for coordination is reflected in the Sem Declaration, and a unanimous increase on 12 December 2001 decided that the issue of a single social, labour and social security unit should be adequately addressed and addressed to the Stortinget during 2002. There is therefore broad political agreement on the need for coordination of the three services. There seems to be a different view of how this should be done when the Social Committee now insists that the matter be re-examined. I have noticed that the Social Committee has not commented on the Government's proposal for coordination objectives. I therefore draw the conclusion that there is agreement that the main objective is a user-oriented, coordinated welfare management with a view to getting more people to work, but that there is disagreement as to which organisational model to choose. It has been particularly important for the Government to respect the user perspective of the proposal submitted. A more user-oriented offer means that welfare services capture and address the needs of users. This should be done without users having to know or notice how the services are organised. More people in work and fewer in social security are good welfare policies. Participation in the labour market is positive for the welfare of individuals and the best guarantee against poverty and large social differences. A high level of professional participation is also of central importance to society in order to ensure value creation and to maintain the level of well-being that we want and expect. Welfare services have been facing the greatest reform since the introduction of popular protection. Welfare services are complex and comprehensive and affect many hundreds of thousands of users each year. The three welfare seats manage approximately DKK 200 billion a year and have about 15 000 employees. It's both state and municipality. Reorganising and coordinating such management poses major challenges. Within the time limit set by the Stortinget, the government has identified the advantages and disadvantages of four models for better coordination of welfare services, including two options for a common state agency. The message provides a good basis for clarifying the model choice, so that a detailed design and implementation of the new organisation can be continued. There are a number of questions that need to be addressed before implementation, but the notification provides a good basis for the choice of the model. The different models need to be assessed against the objectives set for welfare reform — more in work and fewer in social security, and more user-oriented and efficient welfare management. The government’s proposed model involved a combination of today's Aetat with parts of the social security budget of a new State employment budget for pensions and the family provider to continue the responsibilities of municipalities for the social services new common first line service We wanted to achieve the following: fewer in social security and more in work. Secondly, through a joint local first-line service, we wanted to ensure user correction by providing users with easy access to the services; one door and a comprehensive clarification of their needs independently of responsibility for services and services. The need for coordination of services with those in need of multi-stakeholder assistance was proposed by establishing their own adviser. The government's proposals would ensure users a common establishment in practice, through a common first line. Behind the barrier there are issues of appropriate organisation. Reorganisation itself is not sufficient either to get more people back to work or to get simpler or more user-oriented systems and more efficient management. We therefore wanted to review the whole social welfare system in order to have a more comprehensive, targeted and effective system. Within the time limit that Stortinget gave to the Government, this was not possible, nor was it in the mission, but we wanted a model choice to be made first – as a phase I – and a review of the welfare arrangements as a phase II. The government provided a division of responsibility for security of income and the provision of services in a state and local authority. This would, however, disrupt the close link between rights and obligations that are throughout all social benefits schemes. This link is important in order to achieve the objectives of the scheme. The government paid particular attention to not changing the division of tasks between state and municipality. For the Government, it is an important political objective that municipalities continue to have a fundamental responsibility for care and to maintain the social security network for their citizens. This is one of the difficult issues facing SATS travel – what should be the responsibility of municipalities, and what should be the responsibility of the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1162	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1165	The Council of State has stated to the media that a return of this case will affect the clients of the welfare state. Now there are clearly different views on the consequences of the proposal here. The majority believe that the proposal that lies here will not solve the problem of which the Storting is concerned. I take seriously the concerns of the Council of State and would therefore ask the Council of State to confirm that the Ministry will facilitate the continuation of the experimental activities under development which have produced good results with enhanced strength also during and in parallel with the ongoing investigation work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1174	The answer to the representative Hildeng's question is, of course, yes. I'm recording that there are a lot of attempts going on, and that there's a lot of creativity out there. I also see that you locally dare to go in for models to a greater extent than what I see that the opposition is now doing. I want to look forward, and in this way I think from the committee's position that some clarifications could be made for me, too, who will lead the work further. Because it's not easy to see what the opposition wants with a new investigation. The consensus appears primarily to be that the message should be sent back. For example, in the comments it says: that the majority wants us to investigate both a state model and a municipal model. What does that mean? Does this mean that the opposition wants municipalities to take responsibility for pensions and social security? Or does that mean that the opposition wants municipalities to assume responsibility for national employment policies? Or does that mean that the opposition wants the state to assume responsibility for the municipal social service? But locally, there they dare!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1181	I think it was reasonably wise for the Council of State to lay down at a slightly different level in its posts than the representatives of Heieren Hundhammer and Osmundnes did in their posts. At least there was a good way to start taking this problem seriously. In the 2001 decision of the Storting to examine a joint body, my question to the Council of State is as follows: Does the Government's proposal in this big announcement mean that there should be one joint body, or does it involve the three independent bodies with the possibility of a common barrier? I would ask the Council of State to clarify it, so that we can at least see if she believes that there should be one common establishment, as the Storting has asked. My second question concerns Osmundnes’ articles. He talks about the earliest possible reform in 2005. Does that mean correctness? Is there the time perspective that the Council of State also sees for itself in this matter? Do you feel that a certain amount of work has already been done in the case of a common establishment, or do you not?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1190	To the representative Nesvik: I perceive that the question to me is as follows: Has the government done what the Stortinget asked for? The government has done what the Storting asked the government to do. The government has investigated four models, two of which are state-owned. However, what the government has come up with, and which is also widely mentioned in the Communication, is that a government model will not solve the problems that both corruption and government are concerned about solving. A state model will become too large, too heavy and too complex. It is also likely to have problems focusing on what it is supposed to do, namely to reduce social benefits and increase employment. It will also have built-in target conflicts. I guess the goal of the coordination is to find a model that solves the problems the user encounters. For the Government, it is not a goal to establish an establishment that is unable to do its job, but to establish an establishment that is capable of doing it. I understand the message in the order. We've assessed four models. Two of them are state-owned. We have recommended ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1199	SV believes that the government's problem in this specific matter is that there is no parliamentary majority supporting the proposal made by the Government. A problem with it is obviously that the government chose not to clarify in advance whether the majority existed until the matter was brought before the Stortinget. To think that three parties that stand for so different political views, could describe this system in detail, is quite unreasonable, as both Heieren Hundhammer and Osmundne's representatives have obviously had some sort of expectation. In order to prevent a repetition of what has now happened, I would like to ask the Council of State whether she will next time, before the Government submits its proposal, in some way will seek to clarify whether the proposal has a parliamentary basis in the Storting, so that she can thus identify precisely the questions that the Council of State is now asking about what the various parties might think. SV will at least invite to that type of cooperation. We want this realized in a targeted and appropriate way to the users.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1206	The President allowed himself to draw attention to the fact that the number of parties representing the majority in the caste is not three, but four. That probably makes it a little bit more complicated.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1209	I understand that the representative Ballo is inviting you to contact me. Such contact has also been in the case that is being discussed today. When we put forward a piece of work, I think it's always wise to have dialogues. Nevertheless, it must not prevent you from making the recommendations you think are right, while at the same time giving those who have ordered the job the opportunity to choose the model. The government believes that we have. But it would also be good to know what the four parties that now constitute the opposition actually mean according to the questions I asked, because the mission is to explore both a municipal model and a state model. There I had some specific requests. I think the best result is when the order is ready. As it is now, it is unclear.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1216	The aim of this investigation was to remove the wasteball situation for users, improve interaction and coordination of measures and schemes. The organisation now proposed by the Government is not good enough. It is the fasit and the majority's conclusion here. Today, I do not want to pre-empt what organisation, cooperation and liability arrangements should be the final model. The government doesn't know that either. I think that there was so much clear talk from the Council of State about it now, when she said she wanted a review of the welfare systems as a phase II of this work. Then I would like to remind you that it is not a good model to break up such a great reform work, cf. the issue of Rusreform I and Rusreform II. The Council of State said that the main thing for the Government was to preserve the user perspective. Then I have the following questions: will the users and also the employees to help the users, their organisations, be more involved in this round than they were in the previous one, just to maintain the user perspective?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1225	I would say a little about the government's further work. We are concerned that coordination does not stop. In that case, it'll only be the users who lose it. We are concerned that the investigation will start quickly, so we will have a new basis to discuss the model selection from. Of course, both users and employee organisations are involved. They have also been this time, although I will admit that it was limited from the time the Storting had put before the Government. They will be involved. The representative of Lutvold suggested that it was not a good idea to split this up in a start-up phase I and II. But I remember that it was actually the order from Stortinget. The mission was to look at the models. The government has been busy with both.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1235	Governments use the line change to ask questions to Stortinget. It's an interesting model, and I'll try to take it. It's quite obvious, as I said in my post instead, that the dilemma with a common model, one common ground, is whether it should be state or municipal. State councils problem saying: does the bulk of population want a municipal labour market policy? Yes, what is the situation at school? The municipalities own the schools, the municipalities run the schools, and the government has taken steps to ensure that the teaching staff also change to a municipal employer's responsibility. Nevertheless, we must be able to say that we have a national education policy. What is needed now is an investigation of these kinds of questions, thorough investigations and thorough trials. I would like to ask the Council of State: will the Council of State now open up wide-ranging trials, where different models related to state or municipal operations can really be tested in practice in line with the investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1246	The President must note that the employer’s responsibility for teachers has been in the municipalities all along. It is the question of whether wage negotiations have changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1249	It's quite concrete to the end. Yes, experimentation is important. It's a big deal and the government agrees. These aspirations of experimentation come mainly from below. They're often well-founded, and there's a lot of commitment around them. I want to be clear that we're doing more trials, and I see that the municipalities and state agencies are actually daring to run trials, and they're doing it too. Although users do not necessarily get better services, they get one door and one barrier. What's missing is the model itself at the back, and that's what we're going to do now and be constructive in relation to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1256	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 2816]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1272	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1279	Document No The 8th proposal, promoted by four depositors from the Socialist Left Party, is about care money. The employer pays up to 10 days of care allowance to the employee who is caring for children and who must be away from work because of the supervision of sick children. This right shall apply until the year of the child’s 10th birthday. The proposers point out that the main purpose of care allowance is to meet the needs of working parents for short-term absence from work. It is also pointed out that if a babysitter is ill, he can receive care allowance. The right to care is valid for parents and adoptive parents who have the daily care of the child. It must be a lasting relationship. After today’s term of care, foster parents will not be entitled to such benefits. Section 33A of the Working Environment Act gives the foster parents the right to leave if the unborn child becomes ill, but this leave does not provide any benefit from social security. The proposers believe this to be unfair and suggest that foster parents and other parents should be treated in terms of entitlement to care allowance in the event of the illness of children or child care workers under the National Social Security Act § 9-5. The Committee points out that more than one foster parent is excluded from the scheme. The same will be true of new partners or cohabitants of parents who are alone in parental responsibility. The Minister of Social Affairs has already addressed this issue. On 7 March this year, the Ministry of Social Affairs sent out a proposal to enable both foster parents and stepparents who have the daily care of the child to be entitled to care allowance in the event of a child’s illness. This proposal brings the law more into line with the care situation in many families. The law will not only apply to those who have biological or legal parental responsibility, as today. The proposal also allows parents who are solely responsible for parental responsibility and have double allowances to be able to transfer parts of the rights to new spouses or cohabitants. A wish to grant a self-employed right to care allowance for a co-operative employee. The proposal strengthens the rights of co-operatives after a break in life, because the Government wants to grant independent entitlement to care allowance to both parents. On this basis, a unanimous committee proposes that Document No. 8:77 shall be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1300	I will be quite brief, and will first of all just refer to what the rapporteur just said in his statement. As co-rapporteur, I have joined an overall committee here. It is good that the government is working on this issue and now has a proposal out for consultation that is in line with the intentions of the proposal we in SV have promoted. That's why it's also that a unanimous committee recommends what it's doing. I just want to hope that when this proposal from the Government comes to the Grand Government, the consensus is as great to correct the obvious untruth that is that foster parents should not have the same rights to care when children are ill, as parents and adoptive parents do. In such cases, both the children and the parents have the same need, and therefore I hope that this will be corrected when the government returns to Stortinget with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1309	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 2817]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1327	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 2817]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1344	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 2817]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1352	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1359	A not insignificant number of proposals have been put forward, but the President should do his best to guide, so that no one should doubt when to vote for and against what, and why! In the course of the debate, 20 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-12, by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party's proposal No. 13, from Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 14-19, by Sigbjørn Molvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 20, from Sigbjørn Molvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to increase the child benefit rates from the third child in each family.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1391	Proposals Nos. 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are being taken up for voting. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to set up a sample to review the level of social security benefits based on SIFO cost-of-living calculations.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking in the design of the 2004 labour market measures to strengthen its efforts towards disabled people, immigrants, young people, long-term beneficiaries of social assistance and people with mental health problems.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks during 2004 to submit proposals to the Government to amend the rules of popular protection on the granting of child care to a single mother or father, so as also to penalise single dependants who, by reason of their incapacity, have to leave the necessary supervision of children to others, also to be covered by this legislation.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for various child supplements and other public benefits and rates used to provide child support are fair and adequate and proportionate to each other’. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the guidelines for the measurement of social benefits for living so that child welfare is not included in the calculation basis for social assistance.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit an annual report to the Storting regarding the differences in Norway and the functioning of the various mitigation and poverty reduction measures.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1434	Proposal No. 13, from the Right and Christian People's Party to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the scope and design of labour market measures for people with mental health problems in the 2004 government budget.’ The President assumes that the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party will support the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1451	Proposals Nos. 1-12, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to qualify as many as possible of those outside the labour market for work to increase capacity on a good short-term vocational course as the number of unemployed increases.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government of the State Budget for 2004 to provide the necessary instruments for the implementation and funding of compulsory Norwegian training and the introduction programme for newly arrived immigrants and the simplification of recognition schemes for study competence and training abroad.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess measures and financial support for the improvement of Norwegian training and the follow-up of children and adolescents with migrant background in primary school with the aim of completing further secondary education and that as many as possible pupils go from ‘Norwegian as other language’ to ‘Norwegian as usual’.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The size calls on the Government of the State Budget for 2004 to increase the total number of action places to ensure the qualification of persons with a minority background and to pay particular attention to measures to qualify women.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the total number of labour market measures in the 2004 government budget to ensure that long-term social assistance beneficiaries are better protected.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure the continuation and extension of trials with full municipal responsibility for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance until the possible follow-up of measures for the coordination of the Aetate, Social Security and Social Services has been implemented.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make an assessment in relation to the 2004 State Budget of the need to further increase the number of labour market measures in order to ensure sufficient capacity for specific efforts to offer and follow-up actions for young people under 25 years of age.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to increase the grant granted by the House Bank for the construction of rental and low-deposit housing and to stimulate such construction with fixed state subsidies.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to strengthen housing support for families with children by further increasing the income threshold beyond the current level of the 2004 government budget.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the lighting and heat template of the housing aid scheme is extended to all housing beneficiaries, as a permanent scheme, from 2nd tertiary 2003.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the 2004 government budget to increase efforts to build reasonable rental dwellings for refugees, homeless people and other disadvantaged people on the housing market.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a stepping-up plan for VTA sites and to explain how labour market measures work for the most vulnerable groups in the labour market in the context of the 2004 government budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1541	The President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1580	The President expects the Progress Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1604	Here the President expects the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1655	The President expects the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-13.ana.ud1563e1699	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by the Depositary Representative, Ola D. Glötvold, on behalf of the Centre Party, submitted from the meeting of Odelstinget on 8 April 2003: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Government that Law No. 9 March 1973 No. 14 on protection against tobacco damage and in particular Section 6 of the Act will be evaluated no later than three years after the amendments to Section 6 enter into force.» [[Tobacco Damage Act]] The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
