ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e49	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik Councillor Kristin Clamet The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e65	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Norway is a country that has succeeded in having lower unemployment rates and a higher proportion of the population in work than the vast majority of other western industrialised countries. One important reason is that we have had cooperation between the social partners in which the employee organisations have contributed to responsible income policy cooperation, a responsible economic policy. In return, they have had a security of dialogue with the authorities on changes in the law and decisions relating to employment. This dialogue is now undermining the Government by promoting a wide range of proposals that weaken the position of employees in Norway, among others. by reducing the daily allowance of the unemployed, proposing a new cut in the sick pay scheme, weakening the working environment law in the case of overtime regulations, and by last notifying a proposal for increased access to temporary employment. In my opinion, this is double wrong, because it contributes to more uncertainty. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he will reconsider that notified the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e72	I fully agree with the representative of Stoltenberg that cooperation with the social partners is important in terms of economic development, and above all in order to combat unemployment. That cooperation is aimed at the Government to continue, and I think it will be possible also in front of the forthcoming income statement. I show you, among other things: to the opinion of the head of UHO that they do not appear to disagree on the issue of temporary employment should the possibility of cooperation in the field of income policy be reduced. This is also how we expect the other organisations in the world of work to act. It would benefit their members, and not least the unemployed, that we should have such cooperation. But cooperation doesn't mean that a government is being dictated by organizations. There is a difference between cooperation and dictatorship, and it also emphasizes the Government. With regard to the matter of temporary employment in question, we have promoted this in the interests of the unemployed. Investigations, inter alia: from Fafo, which is relatively close to the Labour Party, shows that almost two thirds of temporary employees come into permanent employment after two years. It must be better than being completely out of work. We want to cooperate with LO and the others also about the process around this. That is why we invited LO and the other organisations to a meeting about this. They were offered to be met at the point of their main objection, namely that the Labour Law Committee was to be heard. They were offered that, but they refused, and that may give some reason to wonder. But the Cooperative Government does not give up on income policy cooperation for that reason. We don't think the organizations will do that either.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e81	I don't think the Prime Minister fully understands the seriousness. Of course, no one believes that this cooperation is about dictating each other, but it's about showing respect for each other. And once the parties have been invited to a dialogue on a new law for the world of work, it is obviously provocative and reduces the opportunities for sensible solutions, when the government decides a few weeks before a common position is to be taken from this sample, to make proposals that go beyond what is known that employee organisations are engaged in. It's not just LO that reacts to this. All employee organisations in the sample respond to it and have withdrawn from the sample. When it comes to temporary employment, it's turning it all upside down. Fafo's assessment is that today's legislation works well. 10 pst. workers are temporarily employed by the legislation of the day. There is no need for liberalisation that allows one to get permanent A and B teams, people who go from one temporary job to the other. It creates increased uncertainty, greater differences, and it may undermine the ability of responsible wage-fixing because those who have the safe, regular jobs become even safer. Any uncertainty about unemployment is caused to those who have temporary jobs. It is a serious problem that the Prime Minister obviously does not understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e88	Those who really are a B team, insofar as you can call it that, are the unemployed. It surprises me that the leader of the Labour Party is not more concerned about how we can create a more flexible labour market, so that they can come and get a foot within, and then, as most actually get, get a steady job. That one will hold on to today's somewhat rigid rules and prevent this, it surprises me from a party that says they have a fight against unemployment as their main concern. What we're doing now is we're getting more in line with the other Nordic countries, like social-democratic Sweden, where they've otherwise ordered an investigation on a further decoration, social-democratic Germany as well. I also show that long-term labour party politician Truls Frogner says that of those who get temporary employment in his company, the majority get into permanent employment after a relatively short period of time. I also see that in the evening post today, the chairman of the so-called Holden Committee, Steinar Holden, expresses support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e95	There will be follow-up questions – Hill-Marta Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e98	The Prime Minister makes it so clear in his reply to Stoltenberg that he does not intend to draw this bill. That's how we have to understand the answer. It is therefore necessary to impose a law on temporary employment, a law that creates insecurity and which will clearly give more people a temporary link to the labour market. In its argument for the proposal, the Government is also pushing ahead with groups that are currently struggling to establish a firm link with the labour market. The same groups are receiving the Government's proposals. Then my question becomes: when all the workers' groups in Norway now react as strongly as they do, also those groups that the Prime Minister and the Government are pushing ahead with their argument, have they all misunderstood when they so clearly feel that the Government's proposals involve greater uncertainty?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e105	The response of employee organisations was the process. That is why we offered them what they asked for, namely that the matter should be dealt with in the Labour Law Committee. So they said – led by LO – no, after they had received an offer to meet what was their main objection. This gives cause for some wonder. I'm not going to go any closer to that, except by saying that I'm not going to prevent the Government from continuing to cooperate with organisations in general and on wage-fixing in particular. It must be better to get a job temporarily, with good opportunities to get a job fixed, than to have no job at all. I am surprised that the Labour Party is not more concerned with all those who are now being kept out of the labour market, all those who are going completely out of work because one has such rules. We have such more flexible rules in the state, but I have not seen that the Workers' Party has taken up the fight against them. This is clearly much more wrong in private business than in the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e113	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e116	I think it is quite right, as the Prime Minister says, that with temporary employment there will be a greater chance for the unemployed to enter the labour market – and at a later stage also get permanent jobs. In fact, I also believe that temporary employment will strengthen the jobs that exist today. But that's not my question to the Prime Minister. When we record that Labour Party member Valla, Labour Party member Bjørndalen and Labour Party member Davidsen are now responding and using all its power in relation to what is happening in the Stortinget, has the Prime Minister ever felt that this is more a political demonstration from the left in Norwegian policy than a struggle for the unemployed and for the labour market in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e123	I do not want to go in and speculate about the motives of the mentioned leaders in the trade movement that Sandberg now pulled out. I think they will fight for the interests of their members. On the other hand, the goal of the LO is to replace this government in 2005. We just have to take note of that. Of course they're allowed to do that. One may also argue about the close links between the Workers' Party and one particular professional organisation. I'm not going to go into that right now. In spite of this, I have had, and aim to have, good cooperation with it at all times, the management of the Landsorganisation – as with the other organisations – in the same way that I think they will focus on having good cooperation with it at all times, even if they would have wanted another. I intend to stand for such cooperation in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e132	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e135	This case is not about a game. It is about those who have the most unsafe jobs now to get even more unsafe jobs, that even more people should go in such unsafe jobs and not get the opportunity to take up mortgages and not get the opportunity to earn pension funds. Once again, it looks like the government is going to make it even more unsafe for those who are at the bottom of the ladder, so it's the temporary employees who are going to pay for a job for the unemployed. So instead of the government having an active policy and initiating measures that make people actually get a job, more people are now going to have unsafe jobs. Most of them — as it says in today's business today — are women who work in the health sector, where people already lose their health from working. Does the Prime Minister think that there will be less differences or greater differences between people with such policies – where we are now going to stick with a hamburger proletariat?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e144	I don't care about these characteristics, I think that's less interesting. I think there'll be less differences, because more people can get jobs. I record that SV is obviously less concerned with those who are completely unemployed than with those who can get a temporary job. I maintain that it is better to get a job on a temporary basis – because the experience also shows that a person who gets a regular job is easier – than to stand outside the labour market. We have investigations, including: from the OECD, which indicates this. We also point out that in an early economic cycle, which we now expect to enter, the rise and increase in employment may be delayed by rigid rules, which do not make the labour market more flexible, as it is also in others, among other things. social democratic overthrow, land. But I understand that what is right for social democracy in Sweden and in other countries is completely wrong in Norway. I understand that what is right in the state is completely wrong in the private business. The main purpose of the government is to get people to work, and I also think Karin Andersen should be more concerned about that. In the case of those who are insecure, it is mainly those who are unemployed. They're really insecure. They do not have the security of a job and income. It's the government's main concern to do something about.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e155	Morten Lund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e158	The central party believes that the government is completely irresponsible in this matter. You cross a line. This is an important selection. It was in the interview, and then you take out the most controversial question and the most important question of people's security, namely the question of security for work and wages. In my opinion, the employee organisations had no choice. This is about their influence, respect for them and their future. This case comes to the top of the government showing a lukewarm interest – to put it mildly – for the unemployment crisis. The restrictions on the unemployed have been massive, the tax relief has gone to the rich. I believe that the Government can still hold back its credibility. I encourage the Government to meet the organizations so that this matter can be parked. I wonder why the government is so busy all over the world. Is it because the Government simply does not believe that it can sit by the power for so long that it has time to wait for a normal decision in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e165	The last one is pretty much up to the bulk of the population. When we think that you have to keep a reasonable pace here, it is for the unemployed. We want more unemployed people to enter the labour market. I understand that it doesn't concern the representative Morten Lund, but it actually worries the government. This is not a new position either from the government parties in general or from the Christian People's Party in particular, since someone has highlighted that party. We disagreed on this back to 1996–97 – I think the representative Lund knows that – and it is stated in the Sem Declaration. But we've taken seriously the criticism from the organizations about the process. That is why we offered them that the matter should be negotiated in the Labour Law Committee – what Morten Lund now said as a main point of departure. Nevertheless, LO said, and then the others, no, even though they had fulfilled what was their main anchor point. It gives cause for some wonder, but it does not prevent the government from seeking continued cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e174	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e177	The Prime Minister invites you to cooperate in income policy. At the same time, the Government has proposed cutbacks in unemployment benefits, tightening up the sick pay system, increasing the use of overtime and now weakening employment protection. I note that this is not exactly an invitation to cooperation. On the contrary, it is seen as very provocative by the employees and their organisations. But while the Prime Minister of this pulpit says that he is inviting income policy cooperation with the social partners, one of the top members of the Government, the government council Sponheim, goes into today's industry today and says that the trade movement, i.e. the employees' representatives, the employees' organisations, threatens democracy. Does the Prime Minister agree with his State Council, or does he not agree with his State Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e185	This is not a weakening of employment protection. This is without prejudice to those who have a regular job at all. They get exactly the same rights and protection as today. This is an attempt to bring more people into the labour market, hoping that more people will get a job and not be completely excluded from the labour market. The really insecure are those who go unemployed. We should be concerned about how to get more. We think that more flexible rules will bring more people in. Studies show that the majority — almost two thirds — have got a regular job after two years. It surprises me that the Workers' Party is not more concerned about it. I have some experience of working with the social partners, both under this government and under my previous government. I have always placed great emphasis on cooperation in income policy. I'm going to do it in the future as well. I'm going to make the most of it, because I think it's also in the interests of employees to get income policy cooperation. I see no reason to characterise the organisations in the working life, nor with reference to other members of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e192	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e195	In the last election campaign, there was a search for gifts of money to political parties, and the question of buying political influence in matters came on the agenda. Now a sample has been set up to look at the funding of political parties. The Prime Minister agrees that it is natural that this sample also looks at the financial gifts of organisations to political parties, so that we do not have a situation in which strong and rich organisations receive large quota incomes, among other things. with tax deductions, can real political influence be acquired and that there will be a danger to democracy? I remember when LO in 2001 threatened to hold back 6.7 million. kr in a gift to the Workers' Party if the Workers' Party did not promise to have a certain position in relation to the sickness scheme. Does the Prime Minister see that there may be a danger that a radicalized trade union movement can acquire real political influence and that there will be a danger to democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e202	It is true that in the wake of the debate on the financing of political parties, the Government has set up a sample to assess and assess the funding of democratic bodies and institutions in our country, including the United Nations. the political parties. In my view, it is quite obvious that that selection must also look at the financial gifts of organisations to political parties. It is well known that L.L. and its trade union federation have actually granted around 10 million in a few years. kr for the Workers' Party. It's an amount that the other parties can only dream of. Of course, these organisations are quite free to do this. I do not want to benefit from the terms used by the representative Hagen regarding the effect of such gifts of money. But I think it's healthy for democracy that the parties become less dependent on gifts, whether from business or organisations. In any case, this sample has to clarify all such factors and their consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e209	I thank you for an answer that I think is positive, that the sample will also look at this with the ability of organisations to give gifts of money to political parties. When questions of democracy are raised by a Council of State, it will also be natural for more attention to be paid to the decision-making process within a number of organisations after four years. In other countries, legislation has ensured that there cannot be a few pampers at the top that perhaps more of political interest create conflicts and unrest in society that go directly against the members' real interests. Laws have been laid down there. Is the Prime Minister agreeing that it might have been time for us to also assess some legal provisions in Norway, so that before, for example, Can large, harmful conflicts that affect both individuals, businesses and society require a dissenting vote among those affected by a potential conflict, so that not a few at the top with enormous power can bring about such conflicts without real support from members?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e216	After all, we have comprehensive legislation on employment in Norway, including the place of organisations in this system, and I am also a member of the freedom of organisation, so to what extent organisations are going to put the question to a negative vote or not, as Prime Minister, I do not intend to interfere. I'm dealing with the decisions the organizations make. In general, of course, it is an advantage that they are as democratic as possible, but I do not want us to start intervening in internal decision-making processes in the organisations through legislation or other means, although they may have significant consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e221	There will be follow-up questions – Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e224	I felt that it was necessary for me to interfere in this pleasant conversation between the Prime Minister and his parliamentary basis [[muttering in the hall]] The starting point is that if the Prime Minister is concerned about gifts of money to political parties, he should start with the largest government party, which has received a significant number of millions of dollars in gifts, but still refuses to publish who it is that has given them money to finance their election campaign this year. You should start with that instead of spending time on a collaboration that's completely open, where there's nothing hidden. Secondly, in the case of temporary employment and cooperation there, not only LO, but all the employee organisations – YS, AF and the Education and Training Groups’ main organisation – have strongly criticised the Government. Thirdly, it is not that the proposals now made by the Government will reduce unemployment. On the contrary, they can contribute to increased unemployment, because they change the pay-setting system in Norway. Employee organisations are less motivated to care about the economy as a whole when getting an A team and a B team, where a B team of permanent temporary workers takes all the uncertainty associated with unemployment. Countries with the kind of rules that Bondevik now wants to introduce in Norway have higher unemployment rates than Norway. That should speak for itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e235	The latter is correct, and that is perhaps why the Swedish Social-Democratic Government has now commissioned an investigation into a further embellishment of the rules, to bring more people into the labour market. When the representative Stoltenberg talks about a B team, I agree that this is a danger. But the real B team is the unemployed. Those are the ones that are most insecure, and I maintain that I believe that more people will be able to enter the labour market through such more flexible rules. And the prospect of a permanent job is relatively good according to surveys. In the case of gifts of money, the Prime Minister tends to answer the questions he gets. That's what I did to the representative Hagen. I was asked about gifts of money from organisations to parties, primarily the Workers' Party. But I also said that I think it's an advantage if you can become less dependent on gifts of money, whether it's from private businesses or organisations. And I'm too open about this. So I could be as comfortable back to the representative Stoltenberg as I was to the representative Hagen, if that's what he was after.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e244	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e247	No more money questions, I'm more concerned with democracy and democracy in what's happening here now. We also saw in this year’s election campaign that individual organisations and some professionals actively campaigned for their particular interests and self-interests, which, of course, will in the long run create major problems and challenges for the weak groups of society – the unemployed, those who fall out of the labour market for other reasons, pensioners, etc. We also see that the Workers' Party has actually signed a contract with the Municipality Association on how to act in the various local governments and county councils. We also see that some councillors have signed contracts with the Municipal Council on how to act in the individual political forums. So my question to the Prime Minister is, what will happen to democracy if this process continues?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e255	I believe it is important that the political parties are independent of specific organisations. Of course, every party and every organization is free to decide their relationship between themselves, but I think it is desirable, also for the sake of independence, which is an important part of democracy, that one does not have such strong ties. I have previously also allowed myself to comment critically on the relationship between the Workers' Party and the LO and their trade union. But I at the same time admit, as part of the freedom of organization, their right to make such agreements. It's also part of democracy, but we can take our view of the desirability of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e260	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e263	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. In 2001, we had a tax on dividend dividends. That year, a dividend of 13.2 billion kroner was paid. The following year, when the sitting government removed this, the dividends had risen to NOK 42 billion, i.e. almost NOK 30 billion more in tax-free dividends to the richest of the country. This is in stark contrast to the many who are struggling to keep the wheels going in our society, who cannot dream of this kind of tax-free extra gain. Then we feel that business is dissatisfied. They complain, they lose industrial jobs, business invests out, they move out, and we have an increasing unemployment rate in Norway, while some people take dividends – they actually lose money in their businesses, so they're almost out of equity. My question to the Prime Minister is: How will the Prime Minister characterise the behaviour of a business that does this, and will he agree that it might be close to calling this part of the greed culture that the Prime Minister himself has repeatedly criticized?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e274	Now we will have a new debate on the dividend tax in connection with the government's intention to present to the Stortinget a message based on the position of the Skauge Committee. They have an interesting proposal in terms of dividend taxes, which I am not going to take the final position from the pulpit now, but it is a different proposal than the previous double taxation of dividends that I also believe had some unfortunate aspects, and which have lost business for some capital. We've seen this as part of adding capital to business, which is crucial at a time when we have increasing unemployment. Unfortunately, last year we lost 17 000 industrial jobs. Well, we're left with 280,000. This is a very serious situation. I believe that the tax reliefs granted by the Government, which have mainly gone to the companies, have been absolutely necessary. If they hadn't been given, the situation could have been even darker, as we see it is in some other countries. We want a tax system that is fair, where people have to pay according to their ability, but at the same time provides businesses with a basis for securing and creating new jobs. We have a good opportunity to review this when the Government presents to the Stortinget Skauge Committee's attitude, which has several interesting suggestions, including: in the case of dividend taxes. I see no reason, as Prime Minister, to drive the character distribution from the Stockholm Chair to the business community in general as regards their desire for further tax relief. When I've allowed myself to go into greed culture, it's been about how some business leaders have got arrangements in connection with departure, for example. I think it's something other than business's criticism of tax matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e281	With all due respect, this wasn't an answer. It was just talking around the porridge. So over the course of a year, we've had an increase of 30 billion tax-free dollars. With normal taxation – as the agreement that Bondevik himself agreed on – it would have given about. 4 billion extra dollars to Norway to build kindergartens, build schools, build our society further. So it is business that does not want to, and that does everything possible to avoid the tax that ordinary workers in Norway have to pay, of course. It is not that you pay your taxes with joy, but with understanding. But business is doing what you can to avoid contributing to the community, to build this society. At the same time, the same industry complains that the framework conditions are not good enough; they have to move out, they have to put down industrial jobs and other jobs in Norway. So that means that business isn't part of this social contract that after all it's important to have. I have to say that I experience it as quite dramatic when, in a year of tax-free dividends, I choose to empty the companies, and we know that compared to last year, it may have become even worse, i.e. an even greater profit has been made by Norwegian companies. This does not therefore benefit Norwegian industry, because these are reinvested to a small extent in Norwegian productive jobs. [[President clubs]] I have to ask again: will the Prime Minister address this, not just wait for the Skauge Committee, and will he talk to the business community and ask them to contribute to this social contract we depend on?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e290	The President reminds us that speaking time must be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e293	Taking this into account must be in the event of a change in the tax regime. We can conduct the public debate with the business community about what they do and what they don't do. I think that we should now start changing the rules in this area again – they have changed back and forth sometimes, which is a problem in itself – it should be as part of a tax reform that is fair both to ordinary people and to business, and that can have the main objective of securing and creating jobs. On that basis, I am willing to go into this debate with open eyes, including the questions raised by the representative, Mr Djupedal. There is, as you know, a proposal from the Skauge Committee to deal with this issue. Business will probably always feel that the framework conditions are not good enough. They have at least become much better now under the sitting government, and I think that has helped to slow down the increase in unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e300	There will be follow-up questions – Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e303	If the Prime Minister were concerned about these constant changes in the tax regime, he could well stick to his own position from 2000. Then also the Christian People's Party voted for dividend taxation. At that time, we had a stable level of revenue on public revenues – money we could have spent on school, on care for the elderly and on the community economy, for which the Christian People's Party otherwise speaks. Now it turns out that the taxation policy of the Government not only creates differences between the rich and the poor, that there is a biased distribution, that those who have the most, get the most, and those who have the least, get the least. It also turns out that it leads to a drastic bias between men and women, because the wealth, the ownership of businesses, is that men get a lot more of these tax havens than women. In fact, six times more tax relief goes to men than to women. I wonder whether the Prime Minister is also concerned about the gender dimension of the fiscal policy he is pursuing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e310	When it comes to the story of the dividend tax, I also get the idea in all kindness that the representative Giske's own party has changed its position. They were against it in their time, and then they went for it. So here's a little bit of a story for some and each. I hope that in connection with the Skauge Committee we can find a line that can stay standing, and that there can be the widest possible agreement. With regard to the information on taxes that appeared today and that were now being persecuted, different rates of taxation cannot be imposed on the basis of sex. I expect Giske to agree with that. What this reveals is that there are too few women who have positions that bring them into a top-tax income. In the calculations presented today, which, as far as I know, are transmitted to the Swedish Financial Committee, the increase in the minimum deduction is not included. This was just about the top tax, so this doesn't give the right picture of the tax relief between women and men.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e317	Audun Bjørlo Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e321	Since the Prime Minister says that there are too few women who serve enough to receive tax relief, he might have thought of giving tax relief to those who earn something less. The figures SV has asked the Ministry of Finance to provide are dramatic. They show that with regard to the relief in the personal tax granted by the Bondevik government, over 80 pst. of the tax burden in relation to the top tax and the tax exemption on dividends paid to men, and more than 60 pst. of the relief from the house tax has gone to men. The figures show that the government of Bondevik is the government of the prosperous middle - aged men. How is it possible for the Prime Minister to defend a tax policy that thus puts equality in reverse?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e330	Firstly, I have to inform the representative Bjørlo Lysbakken about something he should know, that this is not the overall picture of the tax reliefs given. Increased minimum deductions, which primarily benefit those with low incomes, are not included in this overview. I think that should be included for the sake of propriety if you first go out to such a sexual tax debate. We have a very gender-based labour market, and there is no doubt that women still dominate in a number of professions where wages are relatively low, and that men dominate in professions where incomes are slightly higher. Now you can discuss whether the peak point represents a very high income. That's a pretty common income today, that's why we've adjusted it, so that more and more common people don't get what should be a top tax. But equal pay must be ensured through gender equality policy. It cannot be ensured by starting to introduce different rates of taxation as a result of the fact that you are a man or a woman. Most of our tax relief has gone to companies to secure employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e337	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e340	The information on dividend taxes shows above all that if the Government wanted to, it could provide a completely different distribution policy in this country. Many municipalities could then have had greater opportunity to offer a good, free school and a more dignified care. But then the Government's action plan against poverty could also have had different content and funding. Last year, the sick and the unemployed had to finance this package. And we see the exact same thing in the year's budget. There are restrictions when it comes to rehabilitation, rehabilitation, sick pay, daily allowance, there are 20 000 more disabled people who are out of work, and there are proposals for increased assets. Did the Christian People's Party in 2001 opt for a distribution policy to protect the richest?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e347	We didn't, and of course we don't now. I think the representative Kleppa, who was the social minister in my previous government, and who made the noise message, could sometimes try to add a little bit more. I do not demand it all the time, but think about whether the representative Kleppa occasionally was in the positive that has happened! For example, as a follow-up to the debriefing report — as the first government in Norway — we have put forward a plan to combat poverty in Norway, and have now increased targeted action against groups of poor people, with a total of well over 900 million. kr. Think about the representative Kleppa at least once a month was within it – that it is nice and good! But I realize it's very difficult. The darkness is about to sink. What we do, both in terms of dividend taxes and other corporate taxation schemes, is aimed at creating and securing jobs. I warn against putting it up against school and care. For us, the consideration of the unemployed is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e356	Last follow-up question – Tore Nordtun.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e359	Whether or not to have a tax on dividends on shares is a very important principle issue, and it has a tremendous deal to do with social distribution policies. In the case of taxes on dividends on shares, Norway is unique and does not have them at all. Now that we see the large withdrawals of dividends and what they are going to do, does it not concern the Prime Minister that this is not going to create more jobs and a better distribution profile?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e364	Yes then, I can also be concerned about some of the results of this, and that is why I think we should look with interest at the proposal that the Skauge Committee is now promoting, and that, as far as I remember, a little simple retelling, will go on taxation of abnormally high yields, just to meet the challenges and problems that the Nordtun representative has now addressed. I hope that it will provide the basis for a stable system in this area that can have cross-politics. As far as I know, it's got it in the Skauge committee's configuration. If I don't remember completely wrong, it was actually so that in the anti-sampling message that the representative Kleppa presented in his time, it was warned against double dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e371	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e374	My question also goes to the Prime Minister. Throughout the country, people are protesting the proposed closures of emergency services, maternity wards and local hospitals. It's sad that it's necessary, but it's good that people get engaged. People experience that their basic security is at risk. The parties have the full support of the Centre Party. As many of us feared, the state acquisition of hospitals leads to a historical centralisation of the health sector. Centralisation has been made possible by the decoupling of local politicians and policy-makers from decisions. That it should be so, the Progress Party, the Working Party and the Right has decided. I don't think that the Christian People's Party and the Prime Minister want the centralization we now see in the hospital sector, and I don't think that the Christian People's Party wants to take away ordinary people from the hospital offer. That's why my question is: What will the Prime Minister do to prevent people from being deprived of emergency services, maternity wards and local hospitals in the area where they live?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e385	Firstly, I must remind the representative Haga that so far no hospital closure has been adopted. Some changes have been adopted in the case of maternity wards replaced by maternity wards. The Minister of Health has said that he wants to enter into a dialogue with health companies about this. He takes this offensively, also because he listens to actionists and others who have strong things on their hearts. With regard to the influence of regional health enterprises, the Council of State has also ensured that the Governing Councils of these enterprises have now become open – to increase transparency and influence. It is quite right, as the representative Haga said, that there was another majority here on the Stortingen that adopted this reform. I'm allowed to remind myself that the Christian People's Party was with the Center Party against this. But it's our job now, of course, to manage what was adopted. This is done by the Minister of Health on the basis of one overall consideration: to care for patients, both with the greatest possible proximity to the service provision and with a good professional quality. It is also necessary to look at the possibilities of maintaining a professionally sound level in the various departments of the various hospitals. That there may be changes in the division of work between hospitals within a business area does not always have to be negative, I know that, among other things. from my own district. It can provide a better offer for patients where distances are not too large.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e393	This will be a demanding follow-up for the Minister of Health, because everything suggests that the proposals from health regions will mean one thing: centralisation. It is now also the case that health care establishments are to balance their financial balance by the end of 2004. In practice, this means that one is now going through major cuts in all healthregions. As an example, we can take Health South, where one is going to cut 800 million. kr. If they were to be taken into positions, it would mean a cut of 1,600 years. In other words, the government also puts health boards in a very difficult situation. In fact, these boards are so-called professional, and some seem to have unlimited confidence in the kind of boss, but they can't magic out money. My question will be whether the Prime Minister believes it is possible to cut 800 million. kr in Health South without the loss of valuable services, or if he wants a real reduction in hospital services.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e402	The answer to the last one is, of course, no! I don't want the hospital services to be dismantled, I actually want better hospital services. Even though we were both against the state taking over, we should also take along the positive that has happened. There has been a strong increase in activity, and there has been a strong reduction both in waiting time and in hospital cows. It is important for those patients who have now received faster help. One shall not forget it and shall not blackmail the situation. Of course, I cannot go in and take a position on the budget and what is possible within the individual health region. That's not the prime minister's job. But I would like to remind you that we have proposed a budget with an increase in the appropriations for health businesses by NOK 1.2 billion, after there has also been a sharp increase in the last few years since the reform came. The government is really aiming at making this reform work well. There has been a strong increase in activity, and we are aiming for one in 2004 at the same record level of activity as in the current year. It's a significant investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e411	There will be follow-up questions – Olav Gunnar Ballo.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e414	The Prime Minister says what is right, namely that the Christian People's Party was united with the SV and the Central Party on a strong warning against the development that could happen when the Health Companies Act was passed in 2001 and the consequences that were then mentioned were centralisation, privatisation, less popular governance and that businesses would come out of popular control. The Prime Minister called for the goodwill to be added here. I would say that he will get a lot of goodwill from SV, because the prophecies that the Christian People's Party had with us at the time now prove to be striking. The Christian People's Party has been foresaw as to what could be the consequences of that law. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: will the Prime Minister be involved in ensuring that health businesses are now subject to more popular control by having national health plans adopted by the Stortinget? The Christian People's Party wanted it in 2001 and has the opportunity to have it implemented now when they are in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e423	Since it is the prime minister's job to manage what was adopted by the Stortinget, I no longer see any reason to repeat the exercises with the warnings that some of us had at the time. But I also think, when you're going to add the credit, that you should bring what's happened to positive things, that's a strong increase in activity, a cut in waiting time and in waiting lists. There are many sick people who have earned it. Whether or not to resume the idea of national health plans should be considered. In this case, it has to be incorporated into the system we now have with regional health companies. I think it's natural that one from time to time has a discussion of the overall health policy issues in the Stortinget. There is nothing we should now leave to health companies alone. In what form it's going to happen, we're going to evaluate it. I will not take a position on this. We have done a clear democratization act. We have provided for opening board meetings in healthcare companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e430	Ranveig Frøiland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e433	We have to take seriously the 150 000 people who go out on the streets, because they are concerned about the security of their local hospital and are occupied with the supply to be provided. Therefore, I am pleased that the Prime Minister now says that he will facilitate an open dialogue with the Storting on these issues, in line with what the Council of State has also presented in the budget. That's what my challenge is. We must create security for the communities, create security for those who are concerned about the situation in Health-Norway. The reform does not prevent one from having political influence, political governance with what is going to happen. However, I challenge the Prime Minister once again to confirm that the dialogue with the Storting that the Council of State has set up will also be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e438	Yes, I can answer that affirmatively. The Prime Minister agrees with his Minister of Health that we must have this dialogue with the Storting and that we must take the anxious people – 150 000 have been out on the streets – seriously. For me, security is two things. It consists of having a reasonable geographical proximity to where you can get the hospital offer, and it consists of having a professional level in that hospital or department that makes you feel safe about the service you are offered. Both are important. It is quite right, as the representative of Frøiland says, that we are not, even though we now have regional health companies, without any political influence. Matters of major importance for the provision of services shall be decided by the Minister of Health. It takes the Minister of Health seriously. He mentions it on his table if there are significant changes to the offer. We have reserved the political influence, and he takes it seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e447	Ola D. Lukewarm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e450	Let me first correct the Prime Minister something. He said that healthcare companies' board meetings are now open. They're not. It only happens from the turn of the year. Whereas substantial decisions and changes are being made in health establishments; It is regrettable that the Minister of Health could not have opened these board meetings immediately, in the summer at least. We made suggestions on this last winter. The second thing I want to comment on is that the waiting lists have gone down. But it's not just because of increased patient treatment. It is also due to a solid cleanup in the waiting lists. The centre party suggested last winter that the Stortinget should be presented with significant changes in the specialist health service and hospital structure. This voted against the Government Parties, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party. In the election campaign and now during the demonstration trains there have been signals from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party among others. that some of these important issues may need to be addressed in the Storting. Does the Prime Minister think that there is reason why the Storting should now be presented with the major changes in the health structure, not least on the hospital side?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e459	It depends a little on what the representative for Glow Violence means. I guess I'm not of those who believe that the Storting should sit and discuss and make decisions about specific hospitals and departments around the country. I find it hard to believe that at least the majority who voted in favour of the takeover of the state will be in favour. It's pretty much in conflict with those intentions that one had. But that one has general debates about hospital structure and the criteria on which to base it is something else. As regards the reduction in waiting lists, there is probably a combination of clean-up and also of real reductions. I also think that we who opposed this reform should be honest enough to admit. The Minister of Health has already made sure that the Governing Board meetings are opened. It is true that it will be launched from the New Year, but the Minister of Health has made his decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e467	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e470	I also have a question for the Prime Minister. The decline in Norwegian industry has taken place rapidly under the Government of Bondevik II, faster than anyone could fear. Two years ago, the Central Statistical Agency assumed that 10,000 jobs in industry would disappear until 2010. New figures from the Central Statistical Office show that a total of 17 000 industrial workplaces disappeared in one year, from 1 July last year to 1 July this year. The Workers' Party requires a completely different and active industrial policy to meet this situation. In a previous Questionnaire in the United Kingdom today, the Prime Minister stated that an important reason for opening up temporary employment is that we have a high level of unemployment in Norway. There is no evidence that temporary employment offers lower leave. Norway has been a good example of being able to have a low level of leave without such legislation. My question is: is it really that the Prime Minister's response to the 17 000 who have lost their jobs in industry in the last year is that he will now put in place temporary jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e481	No, that's not the answer, of course. However, we are based on experience that shows that those who get temporary employment can get into a regular position more quickly, and that it is better to have a job for a while that way and later get something firm than to go completely out of work. I am surprised that the representative of Solberg still does not see it. But we have discussed this earlier in the Question Time. Our response to the fight against unemployment, which is a major concern of the Cooperative Government, is two-fold. One is continuing to pursue an economic policy that keeps interest rates and exchange rates at a low level, so that industry is once again starting to invest more. Now we see that optimism is beginning to come back. Several industry leaders now say that, and some specific companies have said, that we are now in Norway because things are on the right track. We have to stick to this. The size must also be the main consideration when dealing with the state budget in the autumn, that one does not, by putting on money for a lot of good purposes, destroy the optimism that is now, after all, on its way back. The second thing we do is make concrete proposals in the state budget to increase employment. Let me mention a few: we are giving a clear signal for a number of new major road projects that will put people to work, we are proposing for the next year 17 billion kroner for the operation, maintenance and construction of roads and railways in Norway. We are proposing a series of new buildings that will provide increased employment, three major hospital projects, nine university and higher education buildings, and we are adding SEK 2 billion to the investment framework for school buildings in the municipalities, which will also contribute to increased employment. So the government is not passive in terms of unemployment, we take the job vacancy seriously, and therefore also put in place concrete measures in addition to the general economic policy to get out of work. We hope to cooperate with the Stortinget on that. And if the second suggestion is here, we are absolutely willing to evaluate them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e490	I think the Prime Minister may be prepared for many other proposals than those he has now raised. Most of those whom the Prime Minister now mentioned in his reply will unfortunately not be directed towards the situation on which I put the search light in my question, namely industry. There is, in our opinion, the government far too absent. I must also say that it will be interesting to ask for the documentation that the Prime Minister has for the Government's proposal on temporary employment to give lower leave. OECD reports have been mentioned here in the debate earlier today. The same reports have been seen by the Labour Party, and there is no evidence for what has been said here that temporary employment offers lower unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e497	We'll have ample opportunity to come back to this. But what the experience says, expressed by a declared working partyman like Truls Frogner, OECD studies and FAFO studies, is that temporary employees, over half of them, nearly two thirds, after some time get into permanent work. At least I think that's an experience you should take with you. There are also things that indicate that in the early economic cycle, as we now have, a lack of flexibility will slow that rise. We don't want to contribute to that. We open up to discuss with the parties on Stortinget, among others. The Labour Party, further proposals that may come into the fight against unemployment. But then, of course, we assume one thing, and it's an invasion for them, that they are within the same responsible framework as the Government proposes. If it does not, if it blows up the budget framework responsible, it could help to increase the unemployment rate. Then it doesn't help anything. Positive proposals, yes, but within a responsible framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e504	There will be follow-up questions – Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e507	I am pleased that the Prime Minister is still referring to declared workers' party members, and that is great, but I trust more in the OECD, which has made a comprehensive report on this. They cannot demonstrate the context to which the Prime Minister constantly refers that increased access to temporary employment leads to lower unemployment. On the contrary, we know that increased access to temporary employment increases the risk of an A team and a B team, and that it is the temporary employees who go from one temporary job to the other, who have to bear all the uncertainty in the labour market, and that it can change the Norwegian system of wage fixing, so that we get a permanent higher level of unemployment in Norway. We are afraid of increasing unemployment as a result of what the Government is now proposing. Secondly, the Prime Minister speaks as if there were no temporary employment in Norway today. It is when there is extraordinary work, when there are seasonal variations and for other specific reasons. And that's the system where 10 pst. In fact, today employees are temporary employees, which means that two thirds come to work, which Fafo boasts. But that's the system Fafo boasts of, which the Prime Minister wants to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e514	Now the representative Stoltenberg goes back to what was the first main question today, but I will allow it for my part, if the president does. The real B team are the unemployed, and that's who we now need to put everything in place to help. It's the government's main concern. Had we thought that our proposals would contribute to increasing unemployment, we would of course never have promoted them. It's the opposite because we think it'll help bring people into the world of work, and that can also give them a steady job, that we've promoted this. And that indicates that it actually does. Nearly two thirds of the temporary employees get a permanent job within two years, and that's better, I'll insist, to get such a job than to go completely out of work. We'll have an opportunity to discuss this later. I understand that social democrats in other countries then consider this differently from social democracy in Norway. Of course, it's completely permissible, but that's the way it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e523	Øystein Hedstrom – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e526	The fight against unemployment is job no. 1, said Kjell Magne Bondevik, and he has repeated it on several occasions. What we experience, and as he also mentioned, is that we have lost 17 000 industrial jobs in Norway in one year – that is 50. during the day - and the statistics show no improvement signs. We have, at the Bondevik II Government, properly improved the framework conditions, with lower taxes on industry, but that has not been enough. Let's not look at other successful countries, for example. Finland? An active enterprise policy is used to a far greater extent, it has come out of the commodity market and can compete in some high-tech areas with the United States. It's fine, you're successful. Do you not now also want to do something about this in Norway and have a more active industrial policy? So I say look to Finland, Kjell Magne Bondevik!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e533	Yes, it's true that Finland has succeeded quite well after the big problems they got from the collapse of the Soviet Union, which was a very important market for them. It's impressive what they've done. But just in terms of unemployment statistics, I don't think we should look to Finland or other neighbouring countries. Despite our high levels of unemployment, however, we are better off than the vast majority of countries around us, both in the Nordic countries and in Europe. I myself mentioned the problem that we have lost 17 000 industrial jobs in the last year, so I am fully aware of that. That is why the Government is also so committed to strengthening the competitiveness of industry and, in particular, of the export-oriented enterprises, which depend entirely on the fact that costs are not entirely in line with other countries. That's why it's important now to keep interest and interest rates down. It must be remembered by the Progress Party when they are to present their expansive budgets. This is why cooperation in income policy is important and, of course, an active industrial policy must also be pursued. But we cannot pursue a fiscal policy, as the Progress Party does, which undermines competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e541	Øystein Djupedal – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e544	This year we have over 100,000 unemployed. The next year it will rise further, to over 100,000 unemployed, and then we will still have over 100,000 unemployed. This means that the policy of the Government has facilitated high and permanent unemployment. You write in the national budget that you hope that unemployment will go down in an unknown future. The government has had a medicine for this, it's going on tax relief, it's going on that we're going to have to lower interest rates, and we're going to have to free the Bank of Norway, so you can control the exchange rate independently of political influence. So all of this has not worked. This has been right-hand medicine in countries for getting rid of unemployment, and unemployment has increased. But what surprises me is that the Prime Minister doesn't see that at these times we need to have a much more active state, use the muscles to spread optimism, to spread hope and investment. What we're seeing now is that this is not happening, and the government is facilitating an increase in unemployment in the future. The famous economist Keynes said, ‘In the long run, we’re all dead.’ That would mean that he wanted action now, and my question to the Prime Minister must then be: Why can’t the Government not meet the Stortinge in this with measures to obtain vacant jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e551	We are promoting action now. That's why we have a record bet on the road and on the railway. That's why we're launching a series of state-owned construction projects. This is why we are facilitating the maintenance and construction of local school buildings. That is why we are committed to cooperation in the field of income policy. That is why we have given relief in the tax burden on companies. It is completely wrong when the representative, Djupedal, says that the government is adding up to a high and permanent leave. Of course we don't. We want the free time down again. But we're realistic enough to see that, among other things. because of international economic trends and what is happening around us, hardly achieves a decline in unemployment before the next year. Of course, we have to work for it to continue and strengthen, so we have to get back below 100,000 and far below it. I must remind you that this is not up to a political party to adopt. When the Workers' Party crashed ten years ago, real unemployment in Norway was much higher than it is now. So this has different governments toiled.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e556	So the time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e562	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 13, from the representative of Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be raised by the representative of John I. Alvheim. Question 16, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment who directs him. Question 20, from the representative of Mr Ingvild Vaggen Malvik to the Minister for the Environment, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e578	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: «According to the Technical Weeksheet on 12 September, inventors have recently been taxed more in the future by taxing licence income as compensation of employees and no longer as capital income. An increase in the marginal tax from 28 pst. to 55.3 pst. for licence revenue, it is likely that many actors in research and innovation will be disincentived. What will the Council of State do to ensure that this does not reduce research efforts and future value creation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e592	The relevant article in the Technical Weekly to which the requester refers is based on a Supreme Court judgment of 29 April of this year, the Lundgaard case. The case concerns a senior researcher at SINTEF who receives licence income from his employer on the basis of an invention he has made and for which the employer has the right to ownership. The Supreme Court found that in this specific case there is such a link between employment and invention that it is most natural to consider licence income as employee income. It was stressed that tax payers had the research or inventive step as their main task. Furthermore, the invention originated from employment, and the further development of the invention was directed by the employer. The theme of the case has thus been whether the benefits provided by the employer are such that, after an overall assessment, it falls within the scope of the tax legislation on the benefits gained from work. The result in the main proceedings can hardly be considered surprising, as the fact was. In the current tax system, it is of great importance whether a benefit is regarded as income from employment or as income from capital. I'm referring to the fact that the Department is currently working on a follow-up to the Tax Committee's February suspension in order to promote a notification to the Stortinget about changes in the tax system. In the forthcoming Communication, the structure of the tax system will be further assessed, including the differences in the taxation of labour income and investment income.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e601	I want to thank you for your answer. This judgment will have a certain significance also for future tax cases falling within the same area. Now, there is often a difference between licence income and salary income, by the fact that licence income comes as unbalanced cash flows. Researchers may go on a very low income for many years, and then they get some tops because these license incomes come in at a time that's a good time after the research effort is done. Then I would like to ask a supplementary question to the Council of State: does the Council not fear that the uneven flow of money generated by the licence revenue will result in an extra unfortunate wage taxing of this type of income?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e610	For any high income, it is extra heavy with high marginal taxes. That is not a new political statement, I think, either for questions or answers, that it is a recognition. And that was essentially the theme I referred to at the end of my first answer. But otherwise, the main question here is whether this under the tax law is an advantage gained during work, or whether it is a capital income. It cannot be a definition of capital income that there is an unbalanced employee income. It will lead to a great deal of judgement in relation to the tax laws, with which I don't think no taxpayer will be earned.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e617	I don't think we should go too much into the details here and what is the definition. What is my point is that this judgment may have implications for other matters. This can scare young researchers away from investing in a research career, thus reducing research efforts and value creation in the future. It also lies in my main question, which I thought I did not get a very good answer to, simply what the Council of State will do to ensure that such a development as I fear this judgment will give does not mean that the research effort will be weakened, and that this will also reduce the future value creation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e624	So the questioner asks a question where the answer is that the tool is to do something about the tax laws and the rate structure, and I have registered that the questioner has no alternative proposal to do so. There is a problem that the gap between the capital income tax rate and the marginal tax rate on wages is very large. It is a general problem with the whole tax system. So we have an example of that right over here. On the other hand, I do not believe that, on the basis of this specific case, there will be anything debilitating in the system in relation to researchers and their efforts to promote innovation as a contribution to value creation. I'm sorry, President, but in conclusion, I don't think the significant incentive for researchers is to get down to a lower tax rate, it's on the professional level. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e634	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘Unforeseen expenditure increases, such as the high electricity price of the year last year, may give vulnerable groups such as minimum pensioners, unemployed and unemployed payment problems. Private creditors are often helpful in making flexible payment arrangements in such cases. However, for the payment of different public charges there is no such possibility. Will the Council of State ensure that applications for deferral of payment of public charges from particularly vulnerable groups can be dealt with?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e643	I have a lot of understanding that it feels problematic when you have trouble paying the bills in time. In Norway, we have several schemes aimed at catching up and helping those who are struggling in this way financially. That's good. The large amounts provided each year in social assistance are one example of society doing a part for people with temporary economic problems. In the case of deferral of payments, I can mention that in the area of the Ministry of Finance there are rules in Section 41 of the Tax Payments Act that allow payment agreements to be concluded with persons affected by sickness, death or other conditions that make it particularly difficult to pay certain taxes. It is a fact that the conditions to be covered by the Tax Payments Act are strict. That's the way it has to be. In fact, there are several issues that distinguish the public from private creditors, which require other – and more restrictive – rules when collecting public claims. Public opinion differs from other creditors, for example: know that you often have no choice as to who you get into the creditor's position. Private creditors may carry out a credit assessment before granting credit. Often they also ensure their requirements by e.g. sales line, residential mortgages or suretyships. The result is that it is the public law requirements that are at the bottom of the pile when it comes to prioritising bills. Having said that, I would nevertheless like to mention that the general rules aimed at protecting the debtor during recovery also apply to the recovery of public claims. Public claims may also be covered by a debt regime, which may be applicable to persons with more lasting financial problems. I understand that it can be experienced as rigid and square that it takes a lot to get payment agreements with the public. There may be good reasons to ask for such a postponement. Unforeseen expenses can affect many of us. In theory, of course, it would have been possible to establish arrangements where deferral of payments could be agreed individually with each debtor. I think it would be a little sensible to spend taxpayers' money. We must bear in mind that the public at all times relates to a very large number of debtors. With regard to the annual charge on the car, for example, I can mention that it is sent out more than two million claims each year. A lot more had to be hired in the tax administration if each taxable person had to be given the opportunity to contact the authorities in order to obtain appropriate payment agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e662	I thank you for your answer. This summer there was a woman who made contact with me. She was sitting in a wheelchair and was totally dependent on her car. She had had serious payment problems as a result of the power crisis and the electricity prices, and this meant that she was unable to pay the exact annual fee. It ended that her car was finally separated. She applied several times for a deferral of payment, but was told that it was impossible to process the application. It is clear that if everyone were to have access to such applications, it would create a huge bureaucracy. I have no problem understanding that. But I have problems understanding that it's not possible in special cases, like what you had after the high power prices, to say that you're softening up a little bit, and at least say yes to dealing with some applications from people who are in that situation. It cannot be an inconvenient task for the state to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e671	I find it difficult to take a stand on concrete examples, whether they have been presented orally here or otherwise. I register with interest that the applicant agrees with me that we cannot allow the payment terms to be agreed in general for each public claim that suits the individual. With the millions it's about, it's going to lead to imprudence on the part of the public and it's going to cost more than that. I repeat that the general rules aimed at protecting the debtor during recovery also apply to the recovery of public claims. So it is possible to make such agreements as part of a debt regime even in relation to public requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e680	I believe that the Minister of Finance agrees with me that both social assistance and the debt regime are basically a solution that we do not want in cases where people come into the situation that I mentioned instead. It would be much easier if people were actually able to settle for themselves, both for the debtor and for those who are going to receive the money. That is why I would like a slightly more open position from the Minister of Finance on exactly what I said, i.e. the situation of vulnerable groups in special situations where we see that this issue can be raised, and that you can open up a number of applications in such special cases. So I want to ask the Minister of Finance once again whether he can imagine looking at that issue, going into it and seeing if it is possible to find some sort of system for that kind of situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e687	Here I think it's about a misunderstanding on the question. For debt regimes, it's just one way to sort it out, but it's another way. And debt regimes can also include public claims. But if the questioner's question is to perceive that we're going to make arrangements for groups that can or are in trouble, then it's an impossibility in relation to the law that the representative himself has voted for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e696	‘When someone dies, most people contact a tomb that deals with practical matters. They also issue a booklet from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health: «When one of our closest deaths». It states: ‘If the dead person has been cremated, the wishful urn will be placed in the earth at the latest six months after the death.’ Most people who experience death want to see the urn down as quickly as they can, and have a place to go. Why is there no information as to how long it will take for the urn to be ready?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e703	Paragraph 10 of the third paragraph of the Tomb Law of 7 June 1996 provides that cremation shall take place no later than eight days after death. Normally, there will be a way for the ashtray to be placed in the soil a few days after the cremation. How long to wait, including how long to wait depend on whether urns are to be excavated in the vicinity of the crematoria or if they are to be deposited on a church garden elsewhere in the country. The six-month period, which we find in the second paragraph of Section 12 of the Graveferdslova, is taken into account for the survivors. The idea is that they should be given good time to change their mind if they are in doubt, for example. the choice of church garden. The promise is not intended to encourage the left to wait as long as possible. I would like to contact the Ministry of Social Affairs and ask them if, in connection with a possible revision of the booklet in question, there may be reason to inform you that one should not wait longer than is necessary for the burial.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e712	I thank the Council of State for your answer. In the same booklet, it says, ‘Cremation usually takes place a few days after the enrolment,’ as the Council of State stated. For that reason, there is an unnecessary waiting time for the survivors, who are told that it may take a long time, and that the usual is one to three months. One is rarely told that the urna is finished before a request is made. If you try to get a copy of the urn, you will get the answer: No, you can't fetch it if you don't have it ready for today. Urna must be sent in the mail and it is the municipality that is to take care of her. Does the Council of State think that this practice is to show compassion for those who are grieving?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e721	The description provided by the representative is unknown to me. But I want to take with me the signals that the representative gives, in conversation with the Ministry of Social Affairs about the booklet. This six-month time period in the paper is for the survivors to have time to repent if they are in doubt. But as I now see the question – it was a little difficult to know how I should perceive it – it is because those who are alive cannot do it quickly enough. I will include those signals and pass them on to the appropriate authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e728	I thank the Council of State for your answer. A few years ago, Lemp the Storting of the Law, so that the wish after the dead could spread ‘for the wind’, as it says. What are the rules for the delivery of urna, because then only the family is there? Is that so, too? The grief reactions are individual. We're hurt when they come. We live on deadlines throughout our lives, and my last question to the Council of State becomes: Could the Council of State help to ensure that the funeral agency, the crematorium and also the church offices in the municipalities get clearer rules – because that is perhaps the interpretation it stands on – for the deadline for the urn to be finished? My proposal is 14 days for those who want it to go quickly and who have made the assessments in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e737	I hope the representative understands that it is a little difficult for me to have detailed knowledge of what is happening in each case. I also believe the representative knows that these are other bodies than the department that governs. But again: I want to take the signal with me. I know that when it comes to spreading the wish for the wind, it's about applications that take some time. But how urna is delivered, I don't know as a specialist councillor in the Ministry of Culture and the Church. But as I said, I'm going to take the signal from the representative and take it up with the appropriate authorities and listen to what the practice is, and what we can possibly do. And I fully agree with the representative that it is the living it should be taken into consideration. It must also be done in the post-work that must follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e747	‘The daily newspaper reports that ‘Skopusser-Lars’ has been seized in Oslo. His shoe polishing business was too annoying for Oslo, and the police intervened. Does the Council of State consider this to be a proper priority for the police?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e754	The case has been referred to the Directorate of Police, which states that: ‘Oslo police districts failed to verify the specific incident mentioned in Dagbladet on 16 October then. Studies have been carried out both in the available registers and through questions to relevant central and Greenland police station officials.» So far, it is unknown that the police should have seized this shoe polishing equipment. On the basis of the information available, it is therefore unlikely that the police have seized this case. In general, it may be stated that the person providing a service or supplying a product on a municipal basis must be authorised from the landowner. In Oslo, such permits are granted from the Torg and Street sections of the Eiendom and Urban Renewal Seat. Authorisation is granted only for sale from the city square. Non-authorisation constitutes an infringement of the law. Although offences are punishable, this is clearly a type of case which is generally not a priority of the police and prosecution authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e766	I thank you for your answer. The reason why I'm dragging this case into the Storting is precisely what the Minister of Justice is now concluding, what kind of resource use we face from the Norwegian police on this matter in relation to other issues where people are sitting at home waiting for burglaries, violent acts, etc., where, today, quite a country feels that they are not actually being visited by the police, and are almost told to write a report that can be sent down to the police district. I am also aware that in this very specific case, the police in Oslo have informed that they believe this is almost an incorrect behaviour, insofar as it is correct that an official has done the work in this way. My question is: will the Minister of Justice do something to prevent such things from happening, giving a completely different type of priority to the use of the police's resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e775	I am neither a police officer in Oslo nor a police director, and I have already said in the first answer that although the breach is punishable by the rules of the municipality, this is obviously a case type that is generally not a priority of the police and prosecution. I would also like to stress that in reply letters the Supreme Court attorney, Røer, who has written to the Oslo Police District on this matter, has confirmed that the police have not seized. The police district of Oslo has also reported to me through the Police Directorate that they are not in charge of a procedure as described in the article in Dagbladet, stressing that they are doing their utmost to ensure that police officers and women in Oslo act responsibly and smoothly for the benefit of the public, including the shoepussier mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e782	It is true in this specific case that the police have not found that seizures have been made or have not been made. In fact, it has not been possible to find the necessary verification in relation to this case. From my point of view, I have no reason to doubt that what this shoe-pusser has reported was wrong. Why in the world would he report wrong seizures? Here we are facing a situation in which there is actually confusion, and that should perhaps also be an argument in relation to the fact that in such cases a system of receipts should be in place, which the Stortinget will be debating later. But the main question and the main question is the question of this with priority. I think the Minister of Justice, after the reports we get around from all over the country, should now act towards the police, so that we get a debate about what kind of priority tasks the police should have, and how we should actually achieve it, so that we do not now experience that more and more police stations are closed at 0 p.m. 16, and they are told to send a written request. This is my challenge to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e789	The representative has the grace of repetition, but it won't be better if claims are repeated over and over again. I have previously expressed, among other things. in oral Question Time, that when, for example: on issues of violence, it has first priority. As far as police priorities are concerned, the representative is certainly well aware, both through vocational training and as a representative of the magistrate, that the National Attorney gives priority to criminal prosecution, and it is clear that the police then assess this in the light of seriousness. But it's clear that the safety of body and health is absolutely fundamental, no matter where you live and what your name is. It's all given expression, and of course I underline it. I trust that the Norwegian police exercise good local discretion. I've met so many people from the police that I know they do. I've been out so much with the Oslo police that I know how they stand in a lot of difficult social situations, and how they try to solve them in an age-old way. Let me stress: Very often, the police are the only operational social service available to people who are in trouble. I myself have witnessed that the police solve difficult situations in a way that the Minister of Justice, with a former social worker background, gives full honor, from the professional point of view. This is my starting point for assessing Norwegian police, and it is also properly described, for example. in the ‘Political Review’ of Liv Finstad. As far as criminal law is concerned, violence is to be followed, and the priorities are discussed in dialogue with the National Attorney.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e808	I have a question for our Minister of Health: ‘After the state took over hospital operations, the waiting lists at the Hospital Østfold have been significantly reduced. In the government budget, the government proposes a reduction in the effort-driven funding from 60 to 40 p.m. This will reduce activity. Many in the county fear that the positive trend with noticeable cuts in health cows will stop. What will the Council of State contribute to the continuation of positive developments in the state of reduced health cows?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e817	The waiting time for treatment in Norwegian hospitals has been too long. In recent years, therefore, various measures have been implemented to reduce waiting times. Hospital appropriations have increased every year and several patients have been treated. The introduction of input-driven funding and the right to free hospital choice have stimulated hospitals to increase efficiency and activity. An important objective of hospital reform has been to further reduce hospital waiting times. The level of activity in hospitals is now at a historically high level, and more patients are treated than new ones to come. This means that waiting times are still reduced. The government’s budget proposal suggests that the high level of activity from 2003 should be maintained at approximately the same level in 2004. I am very pleased to note that the measures are working and that waiting times are now considerably reduced. The picture of the cause is, as it appears from what I have already said, complex. There is not one measure alone that explains this happy reduction in waiting times. However, the need for continued strong incentives for further growth in patient provision has changed as a result. In some areas, it cannot now be excluded that there is some overcapacity. This may lead to a desire to trigger price-reduction by treating patients with less severe medical conditions with little medical benefit. These are resources that could, alternatively, have been much more useful if they had benefited other patients. I would like to highlight in particular the needs of habilitation, rehabilitation and mental health protection. Therefore, in order to achieve a balanced and guided development of treatment provision in line with political priorities, we need to find the right balance between activity financing and basic funding. The Government considers that a strengthening of the basic allocation and a corresponding reduction of the ISF rate to 40 pst. will make the ISF a better tool to achieve a balanced development of the specialist health service and avoid possible distortions that may result from an unbalanced solution. I would also like to point out that there is no strong link between the size of the ISF rate and treatment activity, as long as the ISF rate is lower than the cost of treating more patients. It has always been a pre-requisite that the ISF rate should not fully cover marginal costs. In that case, we would have an income model for the hospitals without any kind of brake, and the sector would be exempt from normal budgetary priorities. They had simply operated a hospital after billing. The objective of eliminating unnecessary waiting time remains a high priority and the ISF mechanism remains an important instrument. Therefore, the Government wants to continue and further develop the scheme, so that a greater proportion of patient treatment can be financed by activity, both decentralised treatment services and after each psychiatry. This is a long-term development work that will be given high priority, and which we propose to allocate money to next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e828	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is gratifying that efforts are being made to further develop and continue the effort-driven funding. Nevertheless, specialists and people in Eastfold who are aware of this now fear that the health cows in the process will no longer be, or may increase, that. The party of progress shares that fear. We are the party at Stortinget that first introduced piece price financing. That is what the actors in Eastfold say, at least, is what has been most important for the dismantling of health cows, even though there are other instruments. No system is 100 pst. Perfect. But the dismantling of the health cows is what we want to continue. My supplementary question to the Council of State will be: Before this happens, the input-driven funding will be drastically reduced from 60 p.m. to 40 pst., have the consequences and effects that may be negative of this have been assessed by allowing health cows to increase again?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e837	The representative Hedstrøm and I share the intentions between two very important points. Firstly, it is important to continue to have a fight against unnecessary waiting times, and it is important to continue to have a good price financing system in hospitals. I believe that in a situation where we are in the process of missing patients in some areas, overcapacity in some places, there will be a risk of moving on with a very high price share of funding, because it can lead to a distortion of hospital attention towards so-called profitable patients, and away from what is the main guideline for health care priorities, namely severity. We can get a twist away from psychiatry, which is not price-funded, and we can also get a response to an excessive focus on coding, of which we have seen some growth. Therefore, I believe that the best defence for the single-price financing scheme is to make it more balanced.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e844	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. That you want to further develop the system and include new groups, among other things. to try psychiatry and, if appropriate, to include dialysis, cell toxicity treatment for cancer, etc., have been found to be positive in my own county. Now it always depends on who you're talking to, what answer you get, but the ones I've been talking to are essentially positive to this. Then my second supplementary question is: when one now proves to have a system of input-driven funding at a level that downgrades health cows, what is the logical thing to do when one wants to expand this – at least try it – to new areas, to reduce the impact of that system, i.e. effort-driven financing, that works today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e853	I find that the representative Hedstrøm and the health minister both have such experience in health services that we know that what kind of answers you get depends on who you are talking to. I think it's wise in these days to remember. We want to extend the system of unit-price financing to new areas, because we see that if we go further and only have it within the somatic environment, the danger is that the psychiatry again systematically loses in the balance between these two parts of the specialist health service. In addition, it is an expression that we actually believe that the single-price financing system contributes not only to greater efficiency and better use of resources but also to increased activity. The question is what is a good dosage? In a situation where we have achieved a great deal, the danger is that we will get an unwanted result of an excessive price, present. I want to avoid that, because I don't want the system to be discredited.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e864	I have a question for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘In Norway, we have an increasing electricity consumption without any significant increase in power generation. In such a situation, political initiatives are essential to increase production, for example, with the companies concerned in order to realise the two gas power concessions granted. What will the Council of State do to reduce the gap between consumption and production?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e873	The government is working to achieve a secure and environmentally friendly energy supply. At the same time, it facilitates energy saving and conversion where direct heat replaces electricity for heating purposes. In 2003, there has been a marked decrease in consumption in the first six months, while new hydropower concessions are at a record high level compared to the last ten years. Yet this is not enough. The Ministry is now working on a major communication on security of supply. I aim to present this to the Stortinget in December. The government is therefore working further to ensure that we have an energy supply that ensures that there is enough energy at acceptable prices, both for households, for industry and for government. With the rich access we have to different energy sources, there would be plenty of opportunities to do this. The representative Nordtun asks me to sit down with the companies concerned to realize the two gas power concessions given. There are three gas power plants that have been granted a concession by the government of Stoltenberg. So it's the Workers' Party that has set the conditions for building the three conventional gas power plants. However, I do not see it as my task to force through decisions that have to be made on a commercial basis by the companies concerned. Nor is it relevant to deprive companies of their rights, as it has also been suggested. On the other hand, I see it as an important state task to contribute to promoting more environmentally friendly energy production. Energy production without the emission of gaseous pollutants is an alternative to conventional fossil-based power generation, which in the long term could reduce greenhouse gas emissions from energy production. In the 2004 government budget proposal, therefore, the government is increasing its research effort to 50 million. kr for the development of gas power plant cleaning technology. In the budget, the Government also proposes to strengthen the focus on energy conversion and energy production. Payments to the Energy Fund are expected to reach a total of 600 million. SEK in 2004, an increase of approximately 130 million. kr in relation to 2003. This will increase the production of wind power and waterborne heat. Some 1.2 TWh of new hydropower has been adopted under the Bondevik II Government. Micro, mini and small power plants have a potential of at least 4,5 TWh. The government wants to stimulate their construction, because such expansion can be made very cautious. We have already proposed that all works of 5 MW or less should be exempted from the natural resource tax and the land interest tax. An important element of energy security policy is also the commitment to an efficient power market and power exchange with the other Nordic countries. Since the Nordic countries have different production compositions, we are less vulnerable to dry years when we exchange power with our neighbouring countries. The Nordic Ministers agree to continue work on deepening and strengthening Nordic electricity cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e893	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The answer was as expected, but I was surprised when the Council of State said in its reply that it is the government's task to secure enough energy for the households and industry, at a reasonable price. There was no concrete answer to my question. What I asked for was what initiatives the Council of State will take in relation to the three – he is right in – given the concessions. The Council does not see it as its task to talk to the owners to see what framework conditions can be put in place, etc. to start this production? It is not satisfactory with the alternatives that have been set up when we now see the need, the demand in the market and the high prices. Energy, industrial workplaces and households also ask what is going on. What I'm asking the Council of State is, are these three concessions still just going to be broken?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e900	This government has done more than any other government throughout the 1990s to increase the production of energy in the market, especially in terms of hydropower. We have also increased research on gas power to produce environmentally friendly gas power plants. When the representative Nordtun now asks me not to do anything with the three concessions, I can confirm to Nordtun that I have very good contact with the two companies concerned who have the three concessions. They can confirm that the price of gas in the market is high in relation to the future price of hydropower, i.e. electricity, which is lower. So that's the profitability it's going on. Meanwhile, this government is working to produce the environmentally friendly, forward-looking gas power plants, because we see it as a very interesting opportunity to improve the balance of the energy market. We need more power, and the gas power plants, the environmentally friendly ones, will be a very important element to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e907	When the three concessions were given in Stortinget, they had consequences for the previous government, which I am not going to get into right now. But then it was a very clear prerequisite for the three concessions that those who would then start should have the same framework conditions as for production in Europe. I expect the Council of State – now that we are in the unhappy situation in Norway that demand is much greater than production, and prices are high – to take initiatives against these three who have received the concessions and come to Stortinget with a case. If it is that some of the framework conditions are not in place, we have to get it ready here and now in the Storting, so that they can start this production. When industry now says that we have such poor framework conditions that industrial workplaces are lost – many thousands every month – and will do so in the future when industrial contracts expire, this is imperative to get this production up and down. Then we should start with one of the concessions, so we'll be able to try this out in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e914	I would like to stress that this government to the point and the point, to the last comma and the point, follows the framework conditions laid down by the majority of the Stortinge and that the government of Stoltenberg was responsible for laying. These are the same framework conditions that apply to other EEA countries. I have underlined that it is not relevant for the Government to go in and order the builder to expand something they consider commercially irresponsible. The director of Industrial Power Mid-Norway has confirmed to me that this is why these power plants are not being built. We're looking at how we can stimulate environmentally friendly energy production, so that when this becomes profitable in the longer term, we can bring forward the environmentally friendly future-oriented gas power plants. The answer is not only the gas power plants, it is environmentally friendly energy production in terms of both water-borne heat, bioenergy, windmills and further expansion of hydropower plants. I refer again to the fact that in 2003 we have had a record high investment in hydropower plants, so that together we have a better balance in the market and more acceptable prices, both for industry and for private households.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e926	I have allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: «After the racist-motivated killing of Holmlia in Oslo, there was a broad political consensus that it was to be invested among young people in the town of Søndre Nordstrand. On Mortensrud on May 8th this year, the Council of State said that child and youth investment was a very important area for the Government. The Council of State is quite right when she says that young people need meeting places. What will the Council of State do to ensure that preventive youth work on Søndre Nordstrand does not harm the poor economy of Oslo Municipality?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e935	The Ministry of Children and Family manages the scheme ‘Youth measures in major urban communities’. Today, the scheme includes ten cities and seven priority towns in Oslo, including the town of Søndre Nordstrand. The aim of the scheme is to contribute to improving the growth and living conditions of young people aged 12-25 in areas with living conditions disadvantages. This appropriation is intended to cover projects targeting young people with special needs and vulnerable youth groups and youth settings. Town of Søndre Nordstrand has been covered by the metropolitan system since 1992. The Ministry has supported various prevention measures, including: at one of the district's leisure clubs, which, as we hear, are now at risk of closure. We also support urban action in the context of the ‘Poverty Action Plan’, and the urban district also has the opportunity to apply for immediate funding to solve tasks and problems of an acute nature in youth settings. The city part has received a total of 1.1 million. kr in 2003. Søndre Nordstrand will also be covered in 2004 by our metropolitan system and the special poverty initiative. So we're looking at what's going on in the district and in other areas where the department has gone through with funds. Through an evaluation of the metropolitan scheme and a recently published sample collection of measures supported by this grant scheme, we have confirmed the importance of prevention youth work. Good and safe meeting places for young people are necessary, in particular in areas characterised by poverty, poor economy and a high proportion of children and young people. We see that youth measures today described as relatively costly are good prevention measures in relation to drug use, crime and institutionalisation, and in the long term they save society from excessive spending. The government decides in St.meld. No 39 for 2001-2002, the Growth and Living Conditions of Children and Young People in Norway, the importance of such meeting places, and the importance of prevention are evident both at our annual major city conference and in our annual contact meeting with city municipalities, where the Søndre Nordstrand district also participates. As of the 2002 grant year, the metropolitan scheme was implemented in such a way that most of the allocation is allocated as a framework to the cities and districts covered by the scheme, directly to the districts as well. Cities and districts themselves carry out an assessment and political prioritisation of the actions and projects to be supported within the criteria of the grant scheme. Preventive youth work and meeting places for young people are the responsibility of the municipality and the city, and as Minister for Children and Family Affairs, I have no opportunity to interfere in the local budgetary process, except for the funds from the metropolitan system to go to youth action. The requirement for the award is also that the municipality should not step down its own efforts for children and young people. I hope that important offers for children and young people are not hit by poor local economy, and are losing in the battle for the budget deficits in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e946	I would like to thank you for the answer, and have noted in particular the part of the answer that deals with self-help from the municipality as a prerequisite for getting large-scale urban action or project funding for young people. I want as much as I can encourage the Council of States to take an initiative as well. This is probably the most multicultural part of Oslo. And I have to say, after having seen Document 2 two days ago about ghetto schools, the lack of integration and discrimination of girls as a result of the city council's introduction of free school elections in Oslo – this is just an example – that we really need what the council calls youth meeting places. I would also like to stress that it has really been on Holmlia. There it has developed an environment that is multicultural, and that works very well. I want to ask the Council of State if she wants to take an initiative towards the municipality and the city to get an understanding that the propensity is a prerequisite. I would, of course, also like to say that we should be able to apply for immediate aid. I would also like to stress that the free kindergarten for 4-5 year olds might have been a matter in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e953	I would like to stress once again that ‘Youth measures in larger urban communities’ by the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs will not come as a compensation for a down-priority on the part of the municipality. That is the prerequisite for the award. The funds for 2005 are also not provided per year. the date of issue. They won't come until next year. If offers are made, the basis for government grants will also be affected. So here you can get into an evil circle. Otherwise, I was told today that the Urban Committee has been given the opportunity to re-prioritize the cuts in the budget until October 29th this year. They have been granted a deadline of 29 October, including: to protect children and young people, and that is positive. I will assess whether the Ministry of Children and Family should take an additional initiative, but it is a difficult balance because it is a municipal responsibility, it is a urban responsibility. It is difficult for a Council of State to interfere in the internal process of the city district. But I sincerely hope that the good measures in the neighborhood are not affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e960	This is also about the city council's allocations to the district, and here it's known as disagreement. I will once again stress that when the leisure club closes, Holmlia does not actually have any proper meeting place, to use the same expression as the councillor used. Young people themselves have called for more alternatives. Instead, they lose everything. There's no high school here either. This is a city that doesn't have any high school, and the recreational club has in many ways been the core of everyday life, an extended family, a training center, a safe base in what I think is Oslo's most multicultural city. I don't know how many religions and how many languages you have in Søndre Nordstrand, but it should encourage the Government to help and contribute an extra effort – and would like to grasp its own party traps in Oslo, so that you realize that it needs its own self-help to get big-city funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e967	I'll take those signals. I just want to point out that the district of Søndre Nordstrand received 1.1 million. In 2003, and both youth action and poverty measures were taken. However, in 2003 they did not seek immediate action either. So here's more possibilities. Support for poverty measures can be sought for next year, and that pot has increased, from 2.5 million. kr this year – in the state budget we have added 5.5 million. Precisely for this measure. Otherwise, we have the means to take immediate action to tackle acute problems in the youth settings, for which Søndre Nordstrand has not yet applied. But we also have an opportunity there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e977	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: ‘During the summer, some crisis centres were closed during the holidays. I raised the issue in a question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs and pointed to the situation at the Indre Østfold crisis centre. The child and family minister answered my question was that Moss crisis centre was open and could take the residents from Inner Eastfold. Moss did not have the capacity to do this, and what happened was to take the women to a private home. This is unacceptable and the responsibility of the Council of State. How could the Council of State answer me that Moss had capacity?"
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e986	On the basis of previous enquiries from May Hansen, a survey was carried out in the last summer to identify the real economic situation of the Indre Østfold crisis centre. The information we have received from the State of Eastfold shows that Eastfold crisis centres, in line with most crisis centres, have increased their local and state subsidies for 2003, and that is a pleasure. In 2002, it was allocated approximately. 1.2 million. kr in State grants to the Inner Eastfold Crisis Centre. For 2003, the State has granted approx. 1.4 million. kr to the crisis centre. This implies a total budget for the crisis centre of about 2.8 million. SEK this year against 2.5 million. NOK 2002 – an increase of more than NOK 300000. It's positive, I want to point that out first. So to the question itself. Internal Eastfold Crisis Centre informed the Ministry of Children and Family that the Centre had to close for four weeks in July this year, and that this was not an ideal situation. However, we made contact with Moss crisis centre, who assured them that they would be able to accept it during this period of the Inner Eastfold crisis centre, which they have actually done. This was a temporary solution in a difficult budgetary situation, and it is positive that the Centre is doing something active itself to achieve budgetary balance. Moss Crisis Centre has reviewed the July reports and has informed the Ministry that the Centre received a total of three requests from the Indre Østfold Crisis Centre during the current period. The crisis centre in Moss said yes to accept women whether they should be full or not. Those who contacted were informed that the centre had poor capacity, but that it was possible to use the centre if there were no other housing options. In one of the cases, a woman was asked to come to the centre immediately due to the emergency situation in question, where the woman herself made contact. During the summer period, Moss crisis centre has been in a period of construction, which has resulted in an additional burden. However, the Moss crisis centre has not denied any user assistance, despite the poor physical capacity of the centre during the period in question. Moss crisis centre has announced that the centre has found solutions so that users should not be harmed. Furthermore, I would like to point out that crisis centres are voluntary enterprises and that responsibility for crisis centres is localised in the municipalities until a new funding scheme and management of crisis measures are in place. Municipalities should be praised for providing a large overall increase in the crisis response rate in 2003. Moss crisis centres shall also be praised for finding the necessary solutions during the period of the closure of the Inner Eastfold crisis centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e997	The council says this is the responsibility of the municipalities. We have dealt with this matter in connection with a Document No. The 8-proposal that the S.V. put forward, and then what the Storting said, was: ‘The government is asking for immediate action to be taken in view of the difficult economic situation of many crisis centres today. It also asks that the Government find a solution for the crisis centres that have lost state aid...» The Council of State here says that the crisis centre in Inner Eastfold has received NOK 300,000 more in its budget. Now it turns out around that crisis centres have had sky-high electricity prices. You have a KLP bill that, when you're paying your employees, cost a lot more last year. There are also large bills for interpreting services. What Stortinget meant when we said that the Council of State should look at immediate measures to keep crisis centres up until we had new funding in place, was that one should go in and look at the individual centre. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to close crisis centres in the worst period?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1009	To take the last one first, we also thought it was sad that you had to close a center for a period of time. That's also why we assured ourselves in advance that women who needed crisis centres would still have a place in the immediate vicinity of where they lived. On the second issue, in general on the economy and crisis centres and immediate measures for crisis centres, we have addressed this issue after this Document No. The 8th proposal. We have contacted the municipalities via the county councillors and encouraged them to provide funds to the crisis centres. This has also resulted in an increase of up to 15 pst. total in the country from 2002 to 2003. I actually want to praise the municipalities for that – I think that is positive. Nor should we forget that, in the context of the municipal proposition in our decision, the Stortinget decided to continue the financing mechanism as per. the current date is for the crisis centres. It is carried out in such a way that municipalities approve the budgets of the crisis centres. It is sent to the department, and the department has the opportunity to pay the same as municipalities and others have given in grants. The Ministry does not have any extra pot available to distribute to crisis centres or others. I have to deal with the financial mechanism we have, as the Storting has confirmed that we will also have for 2004. But we're still working on funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1023	Governments are required by Stortinget to take immediate action. I would like to refer to what the Council of State said in the debate on Document No. The 8th proposal: ‘There is a need to amend the grant scheme rapidly. At this point, I agree with the proposers.’ – SV – ‘We don’t have time to wait any longer. Crisis centres need clarification as to what is happening to the grant scheme now.’;» So the Storting has said that the Council of State should look at immediate action. But what the Council of State has also said is, ‘That’s why I think it’s natural that questions about lawmaking are also assessed.’ When funding is put into the framework when municipalities have as bad a economy as they have now, and crisis centres are not a statutory service, the Council of State knows very well that this means that crisis centres are closed down. There have already been several places in the country. What will the Council of State do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1035	In relation to immediate action and the Storting decision, we have done what we have been able to do within the funding mechanism that has been in place. To the extent that the municipalities have provided more money on the basis of enquiries, the State has provided it accordingly. So it's going to be a pretty big increase from last year to this year. That's what we think has been very positive. We are not finished with the financing mechanism for the crisis centres yet. It is true that the Government made a proposal, which has also been decided in the past, to include it in the framework – there is a majority decision in the Stortinget on it. At the same time, we signaled in the municipal bill that we also wanted to look at legislative measures, for example. to legislate an emergency response offer or otherwise to incorporate it into legislation and legislation. However, as late as this year, just before the holiday, the Stortinget decided that the current financial instrument should be maintained for 2004. As the Council of State, I have to deal with that. But when that is said, we have also signaled out that when the Women's Violence Committee now comes up with its position in December, where they will also look at the crisis centres, if not directly at the funding mechanism, we are prepared to follow up. Because although Stortinget has said that we are now going to continue this system for so long, I am not satisfied with the lack of predictability that is for the crisis centres. So we come back to the matter, but we have somehow had to stop because the Storting made its decision in June.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1049	I have a question for the Minister of Education: ‘The quality reform of higher education also includes the transition to five-step letter characters, A-E, and F for iron. This is also in line with the European Credit Transfer System, which facilitates exchange and comparison. [[ECTS]] But a transition from numbers with tenths and 31 different passing characters to five letter characters can result in equal treatment for students with very different results. What does the Council of State do to ensure that the introduction of letter characters does not result in accidental treatment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1058	The question of the assessment terms to be used in higher education has not been regulated before in the context of the Quality Reform. Different character scales have been used in the past – the most common has been the scale from 1.0 to 4.0, which at tenths of an interval has given 31 different pass characters. The use of this character scale has varied between subjects and places of study, and in practice many have used only a small part of the scale. The introduction of a new character system is based on the desire for a simpler and more coordinated system of characterisation in Norwegian higher education. One of the objectives is that the same character should be greater than in the past as an expression of a common understanding of the level of performance of candidates, whether Norwegian or foreign universities or the labour market, to assess it. The University and Higher Education Council has developed general qualitative descriptions of the new characterisation steps that they recommend to universities and higher education institutions. At the same time, the specificity of the characteristics of responses qualifying for the different character stages must be anchored in the professional environments. Here, national faculty meetings and specialist councils, which are to coordinate higher education and research in their fields of competence, have been important bodies. Compared to the tenths scale, the new character system gives a more serious ranking of students' knowledge. The assessment of knowledge involves an element of subjective judgement. The use of a tiered character scale may give the impression of a certainty in the assessment of the candidates that can be discussed. A less precise indication of the student's performance could therefore result in an equally correct and fair assessment of the student's mutual performance. Institutions have been authorised to determine the criteria to be used for the ranking of students for admission to further studies. In studies where many do not come in, a dilemma always arises in the selection of criteria. I assume that the institutions themselves choose criteria based on the fact that the most professional students will move forward, but without encouraging longer study periods. At the same time, it is important that the recording criteria have legitimacy among applicants and in the professional environments. Under the law, it is the responsibility of the institutions to practice the new character system so that it works fairly between the students and serves to promote professional quality. The Ministry has asked the Norwegian Research Council to conduct a comprehensive independent evaluation of the quality reform, in which the effects of new evaluation schemes will also be reviewed. The size has asked for the results when the reform has been in operation for three years, and this will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1073	I thank you for your answer. For those who are out in the education system today, it is clear that, among other things, is mentioned in Bergen's Official Journal a little while ago, if pure lottery is perceived as anything but fair. It is also such that in connection with St.meld. No 27 for 2000–2001, on the very high-quality reform of higher education, something was said during the committee’s treatment. In a note from the Progress Party and the Right, it was underlined in relation to grades: ‘These members will emphasise that the desire for ‘reprobability’ and equal treatment of students also require a system that ensures the students’ ability to complain properly about the evaluation.’ Prolongation of weight does not allow for reprobability or non-discrimination at all. How will the Council of States, in the run-up to this evaluation – for it will take some time before you get it – follow up on this clarification, which the Progress Party and the Right actually agreed on?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1085	I think we're facing two kinds of problems here. One is linked to certain disadvantages of a transition from one character system to another. I recognize that there may be such disadvantages, and some students have responded, they felt that the old character system was better than the new one. There could always be such migration problems. I believe that the problems of conversion must be weighed against the great benefits that students will have from getting a character system that makes it much easier for employers and educational institutions both in Norway and in other countries to interpret students' qualifications for further work and education. The second set of issues here is what the representative Sortevik is more specifically concerned with, namely admission to higher education, i.e. not admission to basic education, which we regulate nationally, but where the institutions themselves decide recording criteria when it is being examined. This is up to the institutions. I register what Sortevik's representative says about a type of input regulation, namely lottification. For my part, I just want to repeat what I said in my first answer, that it is important for the institutions to come up with rules on admission which have legitimacy, while not appealing to a later progress than necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1092	As I see it, the situation described in the example from Bergen is not unique. On the contrary, several institutions in the same situation, i.e. with a higher degree of scrutiny, consider solving their problem by lottery. Will the Council of State make recommendations or guidelines to institutions to establish assessments in addition to pure letter characters where, alone, the character of letters obviously does not provide verifiable and non-discriminatory sorting?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1099	It has been foreseen, and there is a draft regulation at the hearing which explicitly states that institutions themselves should determine eligibility criteria in the case of further studies, i.e. not the basic education itself in higher education. I don't think it's right that I intervene in relation to what the institutions are doing here, but I expect the institutions themselves to experience now, among other things. from the example of the representative of Sortevik. I myself think that I have expressed something that is important and significant in my answer, namely that it is important that such admission regulations also have legitimacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1104	There's more Blackevik is wondering today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1110	There's more the representative Sortevik is wondering, and the reason why he gets tricked twice is a straightforward rule change here in Stortinget, which means that you get what was not answered normally in the previous question time. My next question is addressed to the same Council of State and is also about the Quality Reform: «The main objective of the Quality Reform is for students to have a more efficient use of the study and to conduct the study in a normal time. It is expected from the institutions that students will spend at least the full week working on the studies. Studies show that 2/3 of the students work and that 1/3 of the full-time students work more than 30 hours per week. week, next to the studies during the study year. How does the Government facilitate the funding of studies so that as many students as possible can study full-time?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1119	From the 2002–03 academic year, a new support scheme was introduced through the Loan Fund for Higher Education Students and all other non-tertiary education. The cost standard was increased to NOK 8 000 per person. month.The timing part was increased to 40 pst., of which 15 pst. depends on education completed in 2002–2003 and 2003–2004. From 2004 to 2005, it is proposed that the entire grant should depend on completed education. The test rules have also been changed: the loan is no longer tested against income, while the grant is reduced if the student has a higher income than DKK 100000 in the calendar year in which it is supported. There are separate income limits for students receiving support for seven months or less. The aim of the higher cost standard is that the students who want it should be more able to be full-time students and less than in the past be dependent on work alongside the studies. Scholarships, depending on completion of education, could motivate students to have a greater focus on the studies. At the same time, the students have eight years to take the current exams and get the loan converted into scholarships, if they were not able to take the exams as planned. Nevertheless, there are many who work alongside the studies, and it can be positive. Work experience may be useful when the students are looking for a job for completed education. Such a part-time job does not necessarily have to go at the expense of the studies. The student must weigh his own capacity. If a student works 30 hours per day. week or more, he is probably more employed than a student. This student will hardly be entitled to a scholarship through the Loan Fund because of high income. However, the loan is not tested.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1142	I thank you for your answer. It may be that the relatively large number of people who work a lot do so because they do not find that the study funding provided makes it possible for them to be full-time full-time students, even with a lower degree of work in addition to the studies. How much of the living and housing costs, respectively, because these are the two main costs of a full-time student, does the Council of State consider that it should aim to cover through public schemes?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1149	I don't want to say anything exactly about it. It's also up to the students how they want to live and live, what kind of material standard of living they want. The representative of Sortevik here is that some students feel compelled to work. Let me put it this way: we don't know how the quality reform will turn out that way. But when we get some experience, we'll be able to better map out the time usage of the students, whether they're studying or working alongside. I also show that we aim to conduct a new living conditions survey for the students. It has been discussed in this room in the past and has been pushed a little in time because we wanted to gain some experience with the Quality Reform. Then we can also gain experience on whether the changes that have been made to study funding are sufficient and how the proposal that has now been promoted, if adopted by the Stortinget, works.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1156	Will not an indexation of the cost standard lead us to avoid taking shippers at different years intervals? That's what we're now doing. We are pushing ahead with a future survey on living conditions and living costs. If we index the cost standard, we'll drop a lot of that problem. In addition, all students are not treated in the same way. It is true in Norway that a good number of students studying at private-owned institutions also have to pay school fees in addition to both living and living costs. What is done to increase equality and equal treatment between students at institutions owned by the public and institutions owned by private?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1163	The last question we will come back to when we promote, probably in the spring of 2004, the proposal for a new, common and more time-consuming legal framework for private and public higher education institutions that a co-ordinated growth has wanted, among other things. with the aim of achieving a greater level of equality between State and private higher education institutions. One of the reasons why the Ryssdal Committee was commissioned to assess the principle of free in this respect was not that the Government had any intention of removing the principle of free in higher education, but because it was necessary to assess this precisely on the basis of the representative of Sortevik, namely that some students at private higher education institutions in Norway pay higher school fees. It seems a little strange in the context of what some foreign students are not doing. We will return to the handling of this free principle. I just remind you that one of the proposals of the Ryssdal Committee is that the free principle should also apply to private higher education institutions, insofar as those parts of them are so-called fully funded by the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1175	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: ‘The Oslo Council proposes to close the Vahl school in Greenland in the 2004 budget. Vahl school is a good community school in an area with a large proportion of children from minority settings. Resources from the Oslo Action Plan for the Middle East have been used actively at Vahl School to improve the school’s capacity to implement, among others. to the SFO and in a dedicated ICT project, inter alia: to enhance integration. What is the opinion of the Council of State that the Municipality of Oslo will set up a school that is financially supported by the State with the means to improve school implementation and to strengthen integration?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1184	Section 9-5 of the Training Act states: «The Community shall provide suitable primary schools. Thus, it is a municipal responsibility to maintain a good school structure, and it includes the freedom to establish both new schools and to set up existing schools, as this case is an example of, provided that the City Council adopts the proposal of the City Council. When a school is proposed, a high level of commitment arises among affected parents and the community. Lookups of such cases can easily give the impression that the size of closures is high and that the number of schools has been drastically reduced in recent years. However, Nordic research figures show that the number of schools is only reduced by 36 from 1997 to now, by a total of 3,127 municipal and intercommunal schools. 212 schools are closed. 176 new ones have been created. This shows the measures taken by municipalities to adapt to changes in settlement and other framework factors. The action programme for the development of the inner east of Oslo is the joint effort of the state and the municipality to improve living conditions in three parts of the inner east of Oslo. The action programme has a joint commitment over a 10-year period from 1997, and school and education, supported by the Ministry of Education and Research, has been a central area of the action programme. The measures taken by the College cover all primary and secondary schools, i.e.: 18 schools with 7,000 students, in the three districts of Oslo in the inner east. There is therefore no reason to believe that students who have to move from one school to another in this area lose the benefits they entail from being involved in the school budget and the country’s action programme. Many schools in Norway benefit from different state resources without reducing the responsibility of municipalities for the school structure. I am a member of the freedom of action and the responsibility that the Training Act provides for in the provision of responsibility for primary schools, and I trust that the municipalities manage their responsibilities and make available funds in a good way for both primary and other students.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1197	I thank you for your answer. I am, of course, aware that it is the City Council that has to decide on the 2004 budget, and then we will see how it goes. But it is important to take the signal contained in the City Council's proposal. I think it is important to stress that the City Council's proposal is, of course, a reflection of the economic situation in general with regard to the Municipality of Oslo. But we are faced with specific choices and the consequences of the choices made. Vahl school is a school in an environment that has an important role to play in integration. The school is large enough, it takes care of the children’s need for safety, and it takes care of the role of providing an overview of what is going on at school. That is why this school is a very good contribution to integration. If it is put down, it is the opposite – an active contribution to a segregation is made. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State think this is a good development?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1206	I have not even visited Vahl school, but I have visited perhaps hundreds of other schools in the country. I can promise the representative Froyn that there are a lot of schools with which there is something special, and which make incredibly valuable contributions in different areas of their communities and show them to their students. Many of them also receive government funds of some kind at the top of the ordinary local economy for special measures or trials or development measures to be implemented. So I have no reason to think that this is not a positive school like very many others. But I believe that there is no evidence to suggest that the change in the school structure that has been in Norway – one could say for the last 100 years, but let's stick to the recent years – has been to the detriment of the students. Rather, many changes in school structure are also justified by considerations other than economics. However, I understand that the students and parents concerned by this would like to protest and will maintain their school, but at the end of the day, my comment to the representative Froyn must be, although he will certainly not answer: it is the municipalities that are to be responsible for the school structure. That's the way it has to be. I don't think anyone would suggest anything else, especially in the campaign we just put behind us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1213	I am always careful to turn the political debate into a debate on statistics. Then the personal element in it disappears, and I think we're going to take care of the reaction that's present at Vahl school, and not use a school, for example. in North Norway as an argument for the closure. A topic in this context, which I think the Council of State must be able to deal with, is: Vahl school has been closed before. In the 1990s, millions of dollars were used to clean up the school so that it could be reopened in 1997. Does the Council of State think it is good economy to open a school in 1997 and then propose it closed in 2004?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1220	I have no reason at all to decide on this. It is the municipality of Oslo that has the decision-making authority. It's those who know their own budgets, who make their priorities, and they've certainly weighed this priority against other possible priorities, as is happening in the state budget, and so the Froyn party is used to doing when they're in the governing position, both in the municipalities and in the state. I agree that account should be taken of the personal element and of the emotions, but at the end of the day, if one is to govern and pursue national or local school policies, one must actually also deal with statistics. It would be absolutely impossible to have a school structure locked up in the country. Then it would really go out on the students. So that there must be changes, both for economic and school reasons, is absolutely certain. I find no reason to intervene with the municipality – I would not have done that to any other municipality either – in terms of school structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1233	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: ‘I refer to the fact that the Education Committee in the 2003 budget configuration asked the Government to present a comprehensive plan for quality development in the school leisure system. Both in Stortinget and in St.meld. [[2002-2003]] No 39 the Council of State has announced that the Government of the 2004 draft budget will present a plan for the development of the school leisure system. This plan does not exist. What concrete measures for the quality development of the school leisure system will the Council of State take?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1242	Questions about a school leisure plan were raised by the representative Lena Jensen in the Questionnaire in Stortinget on 12 February of this year. In my reply on 12 February, it was stated that a plan for the development of the school leisure scheme was to be mentioned in the 2004 budget. The draft budget does not contain such a reference, for reasons I would like to explain. Paragraphs 13 to 7 of the Training Act require the municipality to have an offer of school leave before and after school for 1–4. class steps, and for children with special needs of 1 to 7. class step. The municipality may allow others to comply with the obligation to have an offer of school leisure arrangements, but shall then exercise supervision. In order to reduce the amount of earmarked grants to municipalities, the State grant for the operation of the school leisure scheme has been incorporated into the framework grant to municipalities from 1 August this year. Municipalities may charge the cost of the school leisure scheme covered by self-payment from their parents. It is a municipal task to facilitate a good school leisure system within the current framework. The inclusion of the earmarked grant also removes the reporting obligation to the State, but will follow the development of the scheme through KOSTRA and GSI. Paragraphs 13 to 7 of the Training Act have been amended in line with changes in the financial instrument. The school leisure time scheme shall be an offer that is well adapted to local conditions and must therefore be developed locally. Parental participation is important in the operation and development of the scheme. The Quality Committee presented its assessment of quality in initial training in June. The committee proposes a number of measures to stimulate quality improvement in initial training, including: proposals for extended hours at the small school stage and measures concerning changes in the structure and content of all initial training. A report on follow-up to the investigation will be presented in spring 2004. The development of the school leisure system will be closely linked to the development of the structure and content of the small school stage. It would therefore not be appropriate to draw up a plan for the development of the school leisure system as long as proposals for changes in the hours, content and structure of small schools are worked on. It is too early to say something about the proposals that will be in the main message in this area. Any extension of the school day at the early school stage will not render the school leisure scheme superfluous, but could affect the scope and use of the scheme. The local level shall adapt to the changes adopted and implemented to the school leisure framework. During the financial year 2004, changes that have implications for local organisation of school provision may be adopted. After an overall assessment, I have therefore chosen to postpone the development of the school leisure scheme pending the Stortingen's treatment of the gross domestic product.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1259	I'll take note of the answer. I just want to make some facts: In the last state budget, the government cut $217 million. kr, which is a halve of the State grants to the SFO. On 1 April this year, the Labour Environment Act was introduced for primary and secondary school pupils, which also includes the school leisure system, which includes, among other things, the to promote well-being, learning and health. The National Evaluation of the School Leisure Scheme came last year, where the Government announced that, after it had made proposals for action, it would come forward with this plan. It has made a number of quality-enhancing proposals in the SFO. At the same time, the Council of State – as said earlier – has twice announced that a plan should be included in this budget. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State now have no vision of what the SFO should be?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1268	I may have visions, but at the same time I respect the right of local communities and local democracy to have their visions related to local needs, and I think it's OK that the school leisure system may vary slightly depending on local needs. I acknowledge that I have said that I should come back with a plan about this, and that it has not happened. When I said that, I was not aware of the extent to which the quality committee's position and the debate on it and the consultation would actually affect the SFO directly and/or indirectly. This also applies to the discussion between the parties in the election campaign on the school which also directly and indirectly affected the SFO. Now I find it difficult to break the SFO from the assessment that will take place at the entire Quality Committee setting, before it has been judged and come to Stortinget, and we have carried out a treatment here. On the one hand, an extension of the number of hours at the small school stage will affect the scope and use of the SFO, but it has also been suggested that the SFO should be integrated in different ways, either because it is nationally determined or because it is localised, in a way different from today's school. We know that there may be different opinions about it among the parties nationally, but that doesn't actually prevent a part from happening. So I'm going to ask to get back to this in connection with the message for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1277	This is an important issue that affects almost all families with young children, those with children aged 1 to 4. class, and those with special needs within 1–7. class. The need for SFOs is increasing, showing the evaluation. At the same time, there are developments in staff density in the SFO, prices of supply are rising in many municipalities, which is – as the Council of State said – very different from place to place. At the same time you know that 8.8 pst. of those who work in the school leisure system have pre-school or teacher education, against 60 pst. in Sweden. Furthermore, I can mention that 11 pst. Of those who work in the SFO, men, and 89 pst. are women. There are many challenges to the SFO, and it is known that the school leave system is important to a large number of parents. My question to the Council of State is then: Will the School Leisure Scheme have a central place in the Quality Committee, and will the Council of State make concrete proposals for quality development in the SFO when presenting the setting of the Quality Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1284	The reduction proposed in the State grant for some time ago, before the inclusion, predicted that we could lead to a certain increase in the market share, or prices, of the SFO. Very familiar that increase has not been more than we could predict, and it was not very extensive. I think most parents, and that also applies to me as a politician, prioritise quality development in school in front of the SFO, after all. What I could imagine, as I dream about and have a vision of, is that we get a high-quality school, where we can manage to expand the number of hours, especially in the small school stage, because we know that there are Norwegian students with very low hours compared to children in other countries. This is also what the Quality Committee proposes. But I also think that the development we see in some municipalities, that you get a more fixed time frame for school day, will make there less need for SFO for many parents. Today it is difficult to have both full-time and part-time work when children go to school at very different times every day. They start half nine one day, half ten the other and end twelve or half one. It makes it difficult for parents to maintain a job away from home. If we can imagine such a development in school, I think there will be a little less need for SFO, but it can also make it easier for municipalities to make a qualitatively good offer, which I want them to do. But I don't want to fine-tune it and control it in detail, because it's up to the municipalities and local democracy to determine the content.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1296	This question, from the representative of Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be raised by the representative of John I. Alvheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1299	I have a question for the Minister of Social Affairs who has this phrase: «Inside. S. No 260 promoted the majority of the Finance Committee, the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left, the following proposals adopted: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose legislative changes to facilitate attempts at drug injection rooms’. [[2002-2003]] When can the Storting expect such a case to be dealt with?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1308	In line with the Stortingen’s request decision, the Government is now working on legislative and regulatory proposals that can open up an experimental system of injection rooms. In addition to resolving the criminal law issues raised by the measure, the Government will ensure that the measure has a content that gives users access to social and health services as needed. Several departments are therefore involved in this work. The Ministry of Justice will submit proposals for legislation and regulations at the hearing in the autumn and will aim to bring the matter before the Grand Duchy in spring 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1317	I thank the Council of State for the answer and I am pleased that the work is going on in the department, as I now understand the Council of State's response. But I must say, both on my own behalf and especially on behalf of the unhappy and severely suffering people, that I am very disappointed in the time aspect to which it is added here. As far as I know, this matter has been at the hearing in the past. I would like to ask the Council of State why is it going to reconsult? And if that has to be done formally – I don't have the prerequisite to judge – at least I'm going to ask the Council of State that that consultation period be set as short as possible, so that the help to these people comes as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1324	I believe that both the representative Alvheim and I are well aware of the history of this case, both from the Constitution of Stortingen on 21 June 2002 and from the decision in spring 2003, which meant that a legal basis was to be established to allow an experiment with injection rooms. A legal basis also means that we need to have a hearing. So this was decided in spring. We are actively and quickly working on the matter, and a working group of representatives from both the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice, including the Attorney General, is now working on a proposal for a law and regulation. The aim is to send out the consultation note by December, with a deadline of mid-February. In this way, an odelstningsproposition could be presented to the Stortinget in spring 2004. It is the fastest, but also the safest progress in the matter. I also expect Alvheim to be concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1331	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. The 2004 Spring may be so often. Nor do I understand that the consultation period must be so long, but the Council of State will have to assess that. However, I would like to ask the Council of State that this matter be brought to Stortinget by the beginning of April at the latest, so that it is possible to finish it before the holiday.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1338	We work fast on this matter. A deadline for consultation from December, with a deadline of mid-February, is not a long period for consultation. The spring of 2004, as the representative also says, can be so often, but we aim to be quick in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1346	I have a question for the Minister for Transport: ‘Telenor has notified that the mobile system NMT 450 will be shut down from the end of the year. This telecommunications network has been of great importance to fishermen and their families, as this is the only closed network. There is currently considerable uncertainty as to whether the notified extension of GSM will have the same scope as NMT 450 from New Year onwards. What does the State Council intend to do to ensure that the new GSM network has the same scope as the NMT 450 since the New Year?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1355	I would like to make it clear that the NMT 450 network is not shut down at the next turn of the year, as indicated in the question, but only at the turn of the year 2004/2005. The concession period for NMT 450 was originally granted a duration of 1 November 2003 but was extended in the autumn of 2001 in connection with the notification to customers of the closure of the NMT 450 network. A new concession period is granted until 31 December 2004. Telenor has announced that the company will not continue the commercial operation of the NMT 450 network after this date. The long service life of the NMT 450 system and the range of frequencies used by the system have made it possible to build a mobile network with very good coverage. The network provides not only coverage in large parts of the country, but also a piece at sea. Without having been called upon to do so by the authorities, we see that mobile operators on their own initiative continue to extend the coverage of GSM networks far beyond the concession requirements. NetCom and Telenor Mobil compete to offer best coverage. This competition has led to the continued approach of land-based GSM coverage to the NMT 450 coverage. With regard to the mobile coverage at sea, I would like to stress that the GSM system uses frequencies with a shorter range than the NMT 450 system. This makes it difficult for mobile operators to offer equally good GSM coverage at sea, but I am pleased to note that mobile operators also expand the coverage of GSM here. However, although the good coverage of the NMT 450 system has resulted in a significant impact on the population along the coast, I must state that it has never been intended that commercial mobile networks should take over the role of the VHF system as a maritime safety system. What is to be done with the 400 MHz frequencies is dealt with in St.meld. No 18 for 2002-2003. It endorsed the proposal to implement a new allocation of frequencies on which the NMT 450 system is based. I want to work to find a realistic way of exploiting the NMT 450 frequencies that will provide the best possible geographic coverage for the system that might replace the NMT 450 system. At this stage, therefore, I will not propose specific measures in addition to this in order to increase the coverage of mobile networks.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1374	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I don't think the Council of State is aware of what the NMT 450 means for fishermen and their families. I got a new boat in 1979, and I have used the mobile phone NMT 450 from the time it was hard to carry. In 1979 the cell phones were not so small. We could hear 30 or 40 miles at sea on our cell phone. At that time we had to wait in line for the VHF to call home. Today you can call home on the NMT 450-mobile to your family, to your wife and to your child. You can't do that in the future if it goes down. I'm aware that GSM has a good coverage, but not at sea. That's the problem. Those fishermen who could and can call the family today are not allowed to do so from the turn of the year 2004/2005. The Council of States must be aware of that. What's she going to do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1383	I am aware that mobile development has contributed to an important good both for fishermen and others in our country. However, it has never been intended that the mobile phone should take over the function that the VHF has, which is quite special. At the same time, I would like to stress that much is done to expand the mobile coverage. We could read in the Lofot post at the latest yesterday that there is now mobile coverage around Lofoten, and that you are building up especially with regard to the fishermen and their needs. I see that there will be some coverage that could get away, at least a period, when the NMT 450 gets away, but it's working on getting an ever better coverage on mobile phones, and that also covers more and more of the areas at sea, even if we never manage to get the same coverage as we had with the NMT 450.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1390	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. There's no doubt that we're getting a better coverage in general with GSM on the way. It's just like the Map. We'd like to have maps for a car, but it's not that careful if the royal ship were to crash for a reason that's not mapped. It's serious for the council when the royal ship loses because of a lack of maps, while we have maps for a car. I have not said a word that the VHF should not have a safety function. I haven't said a word about it. Of course, the VHF should be the best means the boats have safety, but getting to call home to their spouse and children may be as important as safety. It cannot be achieved on a GSM when one is 30 to 40 miles out of the sea, because GSM does not have that range. What is the Council of State going to do to make GSM get the same range out on the ocean that we have today with NMT 450?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1399	In relation to sea cover, I would like to remind you once again that VHF is the emergency connection that needs to be used when you are in distress. I am also concerned that those who want it will get to call the family and spouses whether it's at sea or to land. That's why I'm happy that there's still getting better coverage. When I say that the range of signals from the antennas to the NMT 450 is much better, our follow-up in this area is that we want to release the use of the frequencies again. So over time we can get a network that has a coverage equivalent to today's NMT 450 – if anyone is interested in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1407	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Roadway 3 has been given the Stem Road Status of the Stortinget, but it appears that it will take a very long time before the road gets tribal quality and thus becomes a safe and good way to use. What will the Council of State do to help ensure that this very important route is provided with the necessary funds for this essential upgrade as soon as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1416	I agree that improvements to Rv 3 through the Østerdalen are important, not least for road safety reasons. In St.meld. No 46 for 1999-2000 on the National Transport Plan 2002–2011, improvements to existing Rv 3 between Elverum and South-Trandelag are priorities for the first four-year period. In the Directorate-General for Road Transport's programme for distance investment, there are only 50 million. kr for improvements to this section during the period 2002-2005. In the first two years of the period, no investment funds were proposed for this section of the Government's draft budget. Both years, government parties entered into budgetary agreements with the Advance Party on Stortinget, which resulted in increased appropriations for road investment. Nor in the Budget Agreements of the Progress Party with the Government Parties has Rv 3 been prioritised with appropriations for some of the years. A high level of activity in the economy has made it necessary to propose a balanced government budget for 2004. This means that after three years the follow-up to the action programme for the period 2002–2005 will be 68 pst. of the national road investments. Unfortunately, following an assessment of Rv 3 in relation to other projects and actions on the national road network, the Government did not find any room for prioritising the route in 2004. This will, of course, be reviewed in the context of both the 2005 budget and the national transport plan for the period 2006-2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1427	It is true, as the Council of State says, that in the budgetary agreements between the Government and the Progress Party, unfortunately, Rv 3 did not come forward. But in the budget of the Progress Party, in terms of transport, there was a lot of money, and there had been money for both this project and other projects in Norway. On this issue, I raised almost the same question on 30 April 2003. I see that the answer is now similar to the answer I received. There the Minister of Transport promised that one would re-examine the matter. But it doesn't seem like anything has happened, unfortunately. The 50 million. NOK was promised that it would be 20 million. NOK 20 million in 2002. SEK in 2003 and 10 million. DKK in 2004. That's 50 million. Do you really want to delete this item? To me, they seem to be gone. I assume that when the Council of State is out and, among other things, Visiting business, there is at least one thing business needs, and there are good careers. It may be the railway, but it's often the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1434	I would also just like to stress that there are many wishes from many places in the country. There are many important road sections that need to be corrected, especially in relation to road safety and not least in relation to the transport needs of business every day. I note, however, that neither the NHO nor the LVF in Hedmark and Uppland prioritise Rv 3 but E6 and Rv 2 in Hedmark. That is the challenge we constantly face, that we must give priority to projects as long as we have limited budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1439	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In one of his replies on 30 April, the Minister for Transport said: «In conclusion, I would like to say that I am concerned with road safety, and I know that it is an accident-affected road. That is why I am concerned that we should implement measures on the road to improve road safety.’ Where are those measures? When we say that a road has to have tribal standard, it has to be compulsory.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1451	I am very concerned that we should have a high level of road safety on Norwegian roads. This also applies to Rv 3. I record that there have been different approaches to the road safety measures that should be implemented. We need to review and assess this when we look at the budgets for each year, of course. But I would like to stress that it is important to listen to the needs of the different states, and not least the needs of business in terms of priorities of projects. So I take with me the wishes from here to look at Rv 3, while I see that the NHO and the LVB have other priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1459	This question, from the representative of Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1462	I have the following questions – which were actually addressed to the Minister for the Environment and Regional Policy – that I understand will be answered by the Minister for the Environment who directs them, which may well be so interesting: ‘The Guidelines on the use of objections by the State in planning and building matters state that objections are to be used cautiously. Objection must be regarded as a strong instrument to be used only in exceptional cases. Nevertheless, local politicians in many municipalities are often very frustrated by the state's use of the right of objection in local cases. Does the Council of State consider that the use of opposition by the county council is in increasing conflict with the Government’s objective of strengthening municipal autonomy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1471	We'll see how interesting it gets after the answer is given. At the time of the introduction of the Planning and Building Act of the Willoch Government in 1985, the department’s powers to take binding spatial planning decisions were transferred to the municipalities. It was and is a sensible reform that spatial planning is added to the local level, where you know where the shoe prints. There I and the representative are in complete agreement. If there are now objections from state authorities at regional, county or neighbouring municipalities, the municipality’s competence – the right – to self-approve and the matter shall be brought to the discretion of the Ministry of the Environment. That is why I am answering this question today. Follow-up to national land policy is mainly ensured through the involvement of State professional bodies and county councils in municipal planning processes. Objections shall be raised when the plan is clearly contrary to national considerations. The preparatory work of the Law on Planning and Buildings has indicated that caution must be exercised from the state to review local policy judgement. That's something I agree with. The number of objections to the Ministry of Environmental Protection for treatment is quite stable from year to year. Annually, this implies about 30 plans out of the 2 000 to 3 000 plans for the treatment of the municipalities. The Ministry emphasises thorough treatment with, among others: inspection and meeting with the political leadership of the municipalities in these matters. In 2002, the first full year of cooperation management, municipalities received full or partial support in 64 pst. of the cases. The year before, the municipalities were given 45 pst. of the cases. This indicates that we have now added the list higher to review the municipal authorities in planning matters. Summaries of this mean that for more than 99 pst. of all spatial plans, the final decision of the local authorities shall be taken. The Ministry of the Environment's figures for the last three years also show a clear decrease in the number of objections raised by the county. Furthermore, we also see that the number of objections coming from the different states varies considerably from year to year. There is a continuous development in which more and more public sector interests are linked to planning processes under the Planning and Building Act and are thus subject to balancing in local elected bodies. Most of the objections are resolved by negotiations at local level or after mediation between the parties concerned has been carried out by the county. Finally, I can inform you that the Department is currently working on a legislative amendment proposal which will limit the use of objections to matters that have been settled in the plan in the past, so that no objections can be raised again once they have been dealt with. It will also simplify the planning process.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1490	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I notice that. I would like to refer to a case from Tvedestrand on Sørlanden this summer, which the Council of State probably remembers, where the municipality of Tvedestrand had given a building permit in the beach zone of Sagestrand on Tvedesstrand. The County Environmental Protection Department in Aust-Agder intervenes – I kept saying of course – and will stop the municipality's authorisation. They believe that the municipal building permit leads to an unfortunate privatisation of the beach zone that is contrary to clear national leadership in this area. So this case finally ends up on the board of state council fire, as one of the 30 matters he mentions. Minister for the Environment, Brende believes that the County Council is wrong in this matter, supports the municipality and the action holder, and allows this construction. I would like to say that the Council of State should have the honour of acting sensibly in this matter. But I think it's scary. For how is it possible that there are so fundamentally different views of the State of East-Agder and the Council of State in this matter, in spite of all the same laws and guidelines? Do we not see here an example of the need to limit the state state's ability to overstep local decisions? I hope the council remembers the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1499	I remember the case. That's the way it is. 30 cases that end up on my table every year, from 2,000 to 3,000 cases. When a decision comes from the Ministry of the Environment, it is up to the state to review the reasons for it and to see what we are doing in the State spatial planning policy, as I stressed, namely that it should take national account of the need to intervene and promote an objection. It is true, as the representative emphasises, that this Minister for the Environment has also, not least because of my experience in municipal policy, stressed that municipalities and their autonomy should count heavily. It takes a good deal more to try out the municipalities, who know where the shoe prints in relation to the local area planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1504	I thank you again for the answer, but I would like to be allowed to follow up on this matter a little more, because I think it's quite interesting, really. According to the Agderpost in July this summer, the County Environmental Protection Officer of East Agder stated that it is very rare that such matters go to the Council of State, and that has been confirmed by the Council of State. The Head of Environmental Protection in East-Agder therefore believes that the decision of the Council of State in this matter does not have any consequences for other similar matters. I have to say I got a little worried about it, because I think maybe we have certain dark points for similar objections in construction stuff, which is what the countyman stops, and then on the wrong basis. Nevertheless, the county gets what he wants, because at least not everyone has the energy or the ability to drive so hard against the county councilman that the lawsuits end up on the Council's table. I think this is scary. It is precisely the state that has an important role to play in terms of legal certainty. And in this specific case from Tvedestrand, where the council had to intervene with the county council, the county councilman, as I see it, was a threat to legal security. I think this is quite objectionable. What should one really say to this when it is that if that matter had not ended up at the board of directors of Fire, it would probably never have been changed?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1513	It was not that I had to intervene in the matter in question. It was such that the case ended on my table because the county had exercised its right of objection. Through the decision taken by the Ministry of the Environment, we gave support to the municipality, Tvedestrand. It's for the county officials to take note of it. Other decisions taken by the Ministry of the Environment will also look at the spatial planning policy we set up. As I also said, objections should only be raised when the plans are clearly contrary to national considerations. So the Willoch government put the spatial planning and decision-making skills down to the municipalities. I think that the Progress Party too could be pleased that this Council of States has indeed given greater support to the municipal decisions to which I referred. That's 64 pst. now supported, against a lower figure in 2001, by 45 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1526	‘How does the Ministry of Defence handle and ensure compliance with employee participation rights in the reorganisation of the Defence Logistics Organisation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1531	In St. prp. No 53 for 2002-2003 briefed the Government of the Spring Session on the preparations for the conversion of phase 3 of the FLO. In the configuration of the Committee, Innst. S. No 232 for 2002-2003, the Committee noted that the Ministry had initiated the preparation of a number of measures, including the transition to a divisional structure with effect from 1 January 2004. The Committee also expressed its satisfaction with the fact that the conversion of the FLO was ahead of the previously presented timetable. It was further pointed out as important to maintain progress in the conversion of the Defence Logistics Organisation in order to achieve the conversion objectives of the Defence as a whole. These targets are, as you know, a cost reduction of DKK 2 billion compared to a non-reconversion option and a staff reduction of 5000 annual work during the 2002–2005 planning period. I consider it critical that the pace of FLO conversion is maintained in order for the defence to be able to achieve the savings targets. A transition to a process-based support activity has represented a major organisational challenge with a significant investigative activity. It is essential that actions are implemented on an ongoing basis. The government will therefore shortly put forward a proposition to ensure the progress of the divisionalization, just as it was described in the Stortinge in ours, and to which the Stortinge gave its consent. The forthcoming proposal will focus on overall organisational changes in order to implement some measures as early as possible in 2004. I hope to understand that I cannot go into detail on a proposition that has not yet been submitted. But what I would like to say is that the organisational development process to be launched from 1 January 2004 will be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Main Agreement and the Adaptation Agreement on participation. The aim is to set aside more than eight months from any decision taken by the Storting until the new process-based divisional structure of the FLO is fully implemented. The director’s input to the proposition was discussed with the employee organisations on 11 September and the central trustees were given the opportunity to comment under the Main Agreement in the country. The Ministry has so far held two briefing meetings with the organisations, one of them as a result of feedback on drafts of the Government's intention to provide. Once again, without going into the details of the proposition, I can inform you that the implementation of a process-based internal structure in the FLO will be subject to participation under the core agreements and the adaptation agreement. And the period of more than eight months will, in my opinion, allow for a complete local treatment of Phase 3 of the FLO.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1546	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The reason I have asked this question is that I get a number of enquiries from the unions in the defense. And it's probably not to hide, and it's not so strange from the debate we had earlier here today – where LO kind of had a damp hand about the Workers' Party – that they're coming to us. What has at least happened is that I have received a press release from the NTL today, where they say that the Ministry of Defence is depriving employees of participation and at the same time limiting Storting's ability to decide on location issues. They say in this press release that the Ministry of Defence will present this proposition to which the Council of State refers, ‘without investigating the work environment, personnel or economic consequences’. That was the background to my question. That the Council of State should not go into this in detail, I agree, but I hope that it will be followed up, as she says here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1555	I think it's important to separate two different propositions here. One is the one we are planning to present at the end of this month, which is simply about the transition to a divisional structure that we want to be able to implement from 1 January. The other, which comes to spring, concerns other issues related to the FLO, for example. this with future connectivity, consideration for the implementation and implementation of integrated strategic management, total reduction in operating costs, etc. for the next four years. I would like to take the opportunity to commend the Workers' Party for the cooperation we have had, at a rapid pace in the organisational steps that are important in order to achieve savings targets later on. And I can reassure the questioner here that what comes at the end of October is simply a proposal to which we are asking for agreement, namely the proposal for a transition to a divisional structure, as the Committee fully endorsed when it was informed about this, as early as last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1562	I hope that we can then also clarify the different reality that is between the organizations and the ministry, and also with politicians. Because it's another reality that's told me when I talk to the trade unions, than the one I get in response from the Council of State. So I hope that we can clean this up now, so that everyone will be satisfied with the conversion of the Defense, a conversion that I fully agree with, and that we have supported all the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1567	I would also like to take the opportunity to say that I hope and feel confident that we will find a common understanding here. I personally believe that it is important that the organisations are of course heard under the main agreement and supplementary agreement, and that the information from the Defence Department that it is now being set aside over eight months to review with the organisations from which we have the right to divisive is an honest proposal from the Defence Department, just to meet the needs that Leif Lund addresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1577	‘The defence uses significant funds annually for the purchase of material and equipment. Large purchases are made in certain cases by a few persons. Former employees in purchasing functions may be assigned to key positions of defence equipment suppliers. These people will have insightful relationships in, and a lot of knowledge about, the Defense. What can the Council of State do to improve procurement procedures? roll-out of staff and will the Council consider introducing quarantine provisions for former employees in purchasing functions?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1584	The defense makes annual investments of nearly DKK 10 billion. I understand that on this basis it can be considered problematic if former employees in the defence procurement projects directly enter the position of potential suppliers for the same projects. In particular, the questioner has referred to the question of the quarantine period or the withdrawal period for former employees in purchasing functions. This question has been addressed in St.meld. No 11 for 2000–2001, on the relationship between the civil service, the political direction of departments and other social actors. It is clear from this that the withdrawal period which implies that the employer imposes a temporary ban on the employee's taking up employment with a new employer or operating in specified fields of activity may be a possible means of drawing up clearer boundaries in the relationship between the State's employees and heavy social actors. The Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs stated at the time that ‘change of personnel may be problematic through the availability of sensitive or strategically important public information to private interests’. The Ministry of Labour and Administration is responsible for the follow-up to this call for proposals with regard to the rules applicable to all civil servants and is working on the development of guidelines for staff transitions. In contrast to a number of other countries, general rules have little been laid down in Norway in relation to staff transfers. I believe that the use of waiting time may be a valid tool for drawing up clearer limits on staff transitions. The exchange of personnel between the public and private sectors at the same time has many positive aspects, and it is therefore important not to build unnecessary barriers to the transfer of personnel. In addition to the design of legislation and guidelines, there will also be a question of the morality and integrity of individual employees. In the defense, we have ethical guidelines for the acquisition-related business of the defense, defined in what we call BAF, provisions relating to acquisitions in the defense. That legislation provides that: ‘special care shall be exercised in respect of suppliers who have recently employed personnel who have been in charge of defence during the last two years’. This is in addition to the rules on professional secrecy, sustainability and the like. The question of staff transition is, however, a problem I want to look at. The Ministry of Defence is working on the establishment of a new procurement code, called the ARF. In this work, I would particularly like to ensure that the ethical guidelines contained in the legislation meet the need to monitor relations between defence employees and suppliers, including the question of the introduction of a standstill period, which will be assessed. This work will also take place in close cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1604	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. Defence is in the future facing significant investments in highly advanced technical equipment. The sum for 2004 is close to DKK 10 billion, approx. NOK 7.5 billion for materials and equipment and the rest of EBA’s investments. Both in the continuation of helicopter acquisitions and in the course of future flight buy-outs, technical competence in the selection process of the best equipment is not least required. Often, the purchases from a single supplier are very large. The purchases of the defence will sometimes be extremely important for the future to the manufacturers of the equipment. Recruitment of key personnel by these manufacturers as sales agents to the Defense will create unfortunate speculations about the Stability. How can the Council of State ensure that the defence has sufficient competence not to let manufacturers direct the procurement of the defence, but to let the defence itself control the procurement?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1615	I feel confident that the defense is able to secure just that competence. So the way that we're dividing the FLO now gives us, for example. a separate investment unit, where an important investment competence is brought together in one single division. At the same time, we have also reorganized the department. We have acquired both civil and military competence in individual departments, so that people who have significant technical insights from the user side also help to increase the overall competence of the department. However, I would like to say that the questioner here has pointed out that people who have previously held positions in the Defence Department or in the Department suddenly meet a potential supplier in a buying and selling situation, is a danger; I have been made aware of this. There are situations that we can best try to avoid for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1624	I thank the Council of State for the answer and the assessments. Governments have indicated a view that will be preventive and a prerequisite for avoiding unfortunate ethical and realistic speculations in relation to a mix of roles. There are large redundancies of defence personnel, while the defense is facing the greatest economic and technological investment effort ever. I am therefore satisfied with the focus of the Council of State on both competence and – not least – stability assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1633	An additional element may be that, in addition to providing the expertise to the defence organisations themselves and to the Ministry of Defence, international cooperation is also very important. The fact that we have got a much closer integrated NATO, where several countries operating together also cooperate on the purchasing function, also helps to improve the quality of the procurement. It makes us more professional actors, and it will also be a further strengthening of the issues raised by the questioner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1641	I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence: «Recently, we have had several accidents in the Defence where protective persons and others have been killed or injured. How does the Defence follow up on the injured and the closest relatives of the affected?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1650	Defence is systematically aimed at improving the safety of the responsible and other personnel in order to avoid serious accidents. Sometimes, however, accidents occur with dramatic outcomes. The representative of Halvorsen's question has unfortunately been updated after the tragic fatal accident at the garrison in South Varanger last Thursday. When an accident occurs, the troops and teammates take care of the immediate first aid and alert. All units in the defense have personnel with health professional responsibility and competence, ranging from health soldier to doctor, depending on the size and organisation of the unit. In the event of an accident, the injured person will receive qualified military or civil medical assistance as soon as possible and then the injured person will be transferred to the civil health service. Own action plans have been developed in the Defence Department in connection with serious personal injury. The action plans include alert procedures, briefing to the injured person and relatives on rights and follow-up offers. In the case of international operations, there are separate action plans and medical preparedness for accidents. Here we also have extensive cooperation with the forces of other countries. The injured person's family is notified as soon as possible in all serious accidents, and military or civil services contribute to the warning of death. In hospitalisation involving serious injury, a care centre is set up for relatives with both practical and psychological assistance for their relatives. Further follow-up of the relatives takes place in relation to their needs and wishes, which may vary. A serious physical injury often causes a great mental strain. The defense's mental hygiene team could offer help to the injured and the relatives of the psychologist or psychiatrists if desired. In addition, in the event of an accident, the Defence shall establish an investigation commission such as: shall identify the course of the accident and indicate what can be done to avert similar accidents in the future. It is also common for police investigations to be carried out in addition to the Defence Commission’s own investigation. An electronic medical record is also kept, with the automatic transmission of data to the health record of the defence, so that the defence is given a good overview over time of the extent of damage and the risks associated with different activities. The defence has recently intensified the prudential requirements in the case of particularly risky exercises. We did that this summer. In the defence are measures to avoid accidents during continuous auditing. We learn from every single case, and we make adjustments to it. One accident is one accident too much. However, I would like to conclude by reminding you that the relative mortality of Norwegian male youth outside the Defence Force is twice as high as that of those who deserve protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1673	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that we share the objective that accidents in the defence should not occur and that fatal accidents – which unfortunately we have had in 2003 – are totally unacceptable. Security provisions exist. The problem is they're not being followed. How will the Council of State ensure that safety is placed in the high seat? Can e.g. breach of security regulations have career implications for the order? I am also concerned about the survivors and the injured who are not being fully rehabilitated. I wonder, therefore, whether the Council of State would consider introducing a personal insurance scheme which could benefit the injured and the survivors in the event of an accident during the initial service?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1682	I would like to thank you for the question and say that if legislation is broken, it is clear that it should have some consequence. One of the instruments we have used is actually increasing the age of the command in certain types of functions where you have to do with guardians. Experience can be very important in order to avoid making mistakes and acting contrary to the legislation. It may also be that we find that the legislation is not clear enough or strict enough. Hence the revision we had this summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1687	I thank you again for the answer. We are getting a lot of enquiries about the handling of the accidents that unfortunately happen. We must not forget that these boys who serve the duty of protection, who are both physically and mentally hard, do so at the hands of society. The Council of State shares my view that death under the duty of protection is, of course, a tragedy for the victim, but such death is also tragic for the defence. They also affect the support and legitimacy of the duty of protection in our society. What measures and instruments will the Council of State propose to reduce the number of accidents and increase the status of the protection obligation we have in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1696	I think again the questioner focuses on two important questions, the status of the guardians is one of them. I've signaled in the state budget that we're going to raise the termination fee for those who're in for a full year's service, to show that this is an effort that society really appreciates and will reward. Next year, anyone who performs a year's service will receive 1000 kroner in extra fog compensation, but that's to mark the will for a further escalation. As far as other measures to reduce accidents are concerned, I believe that the measures I have pointed out, in particular with regard to more focus on experienced personnel, an ongoing review of safety regulations and the fact that we learn from every accident, by setting down an accident commission each time, are the best measures we can take. Then I'll remind you again that it's actually so that there are more accidents among youth outside the defense than within.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1716	This question has been withdrawn. That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-22.ana.ud770e1729	There is no record.
