ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e30	This is a happy day for both Rogaland and Norway. It is a very exciting initiative for an application from Stavanger and the municipalities of Sandne and Rogaland County jointly on the status of the European Capital of Culture for the Stavanger region in 2008. It was not a matter of self-order that the government followed up this application as eloquently as she did. Being a Minister of Culture can mean that as part of a college, you have to cut a little bit, and there were questions about a guarantee for a large sum. One hundred million. State support for culture means that one can trigger a great deal, especially in the community set up here. So this is 100 million. kr from Stavanger and the municipalities of Sandnes and Rogaland County and a corresponding amount from private operators. The government has laid a very good foundation, and it is also fun that the Culture Committee follows up as politically as it is done here. That's what I want to underline from the Center Party's side. Then we can avoid reminding each other that there are some people who feel a little bad about it because they think that Norway is too small to count on in the European Community. At this point, it is possible to apply to the EU for such status as an EU member or not. The party of progress has expressed its concern today – yes, not only concern but also resistance. One of the arguments, as I understood it, was that these two municipalities that are involved here, from now on, do not solve their primary tasks. I understand that such thinking can occur, but it is actually up to the Progress Party to engage even more in order for the municipalities to be able to solve their primary tasks. At present, the municipal committee has given its opinion on the municipal proposal for the next year, and if the Progress Party there had added even more money to its proposal, they would have got several numbers together with a party that would spend even more on the municipalities. This means that these two municipalities and many others had the opportunity to solve more of their primary tasks without having to wait until 2008. From the Center Party's side, we want both to strengthen culture and to strengthen the local authorities' ability to carry out their primary tasks. Culture is in many ways glued to society and a platform from which it is good for most people to orient their lives. The application included both literature, art, film, music, opera and the protection of cultural memory. It means focusing on the past, on traditional values, on the present and on an exciting future. It has been said in the proposition that the Stavanger region has for a long time our meeting place both for secret traditions and for forward impulses. There's a little bit of an example of that. If we go to business and take shipping and sardines, or if we take the oil, we see it. If we look at u-country exposures and the first mission company was founded in Stavanger, we'll take with us another piece of history. And from the notes, we can also refer to the international author parliament's network as a haven for persecuted authors – that is, for a long time, both traditions and innovation. This is going to focus on the yawning. It's important to take care of the public medicine. This means that we take for granted that these 100 million. kr comes in addition to the support already given to culture. From the Central Party, we see this as both a cultural and an economic gain, and we see it as important at a time when this region is missing out on traditional industrial jobs. This may give the region an upturn and provide a basis for new jobs for the region and for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e47	The EU Capital of Culture Programme, established by the EU Culture Ministers in 1985, has been important to make culture more visible in Europe and to strengthen the perception of a common European cultural tradition. Experience shows that gaining the status of European Capital of Culture has brought both cultural and economic benefits to the cities concerned and to the countries concerned. The programme is also open to non-EU countries. As you know, Bergen gained status as a European city of culture together with eight other cities in 2000. Based on an application from the municipalities of Stavanger and the municipality of Sandnes and Rogaland, the Government enters the EU to seek the status of European Capital of Culture in 2008 of the Stavanger region. The premise is that the Storting joins the proposal in this proposition. Very many cultural actors in the Stavanger region are involved in the project, and the application is supported by the largest cities in Norway. Stavanger City and Stavanger Region have the best intentions to carry out the project in a way that will give positive international attention and that will include Norwegian cultural life in general. The Stavanger region has long been a meeting place for both secret traditions and foreign impulses. Contact with the British Isles, the continent and with the countries around the Baltic Sea has been close and extensive. Since 1997, Stavanger has been a member of the international authorial parliament's network of liberals for persecuted authors. Today, the city and the region can refer to a rich cultural life, with a large width and high quality. As many people know, Stavanger is designated by Norsk Kulturforum as Norway's cultural municipality in 2003. The status of European Capital of Culture will provide additional impetus for strengthening these positive developments. At that time, Stavanger and the region’s application has the character of being a more general framework for the event. The project plan will be much more detailed in the coming years if the application is accepted in Brussels. Values highlighted in the application are artistic freedom, cultural diversity and community, and that the main target group for the event will be children and young people. In line with the Council Decision of 25 May 1999 on new titles for the European Capitals of Culture, the United Kingdom is among the Member States of the European Union to nominate the Capital of Culture in 2008. The Stavanger region has chosen the year 2008 because of its current and historical ties with the United Kingdom. Stavanger has all been invited to cooperate with Liverpool, who has recently been nominated as a cultural capital. The Stavanger region has applied for a The rest will be covered by the three regional parties, private sponsors and property income. The region will be responsible for the income component to be derived from private sponsors and own resources. The activity in the project will be reduced if they do not manage to get the full amount. In other words, there will be no application for additional government support to cover any minor income. This proposal proposes that Stavanger and the municipalities of Sandne and Rogaland should be awarded a state grant of up to one third of the operating costs of implementing the European Capital of Culture Year. The benefit is limited up to 100 million. kr and will be broken down over the years 2006-2008, if Brussels is in favour of Stavanger. It is not yet clear from the EU whether, in the light of the EU’s enlargement from 1 May 2004, up to two or three cultural capitals per region will be identified. years in the future. I believe that an application to the EU for the cultural capital status of the Stavanger region will give a positive signal about Norway’s willingness to take an active part in cultural cooperation in the EU for years to come. This is particularly important in the context of the enlargement of the EU and the EEA Agreement. I am therefore very pleased that the majority in the Committee welcomes this initiative. I am also pleased that the Committee majority, like myself, has placed great emphasis on regional cooperation and the strong willingness of the region to invest in this project. Then we get hope that we get support in Brussels, so that Stavanger really becomes a cultural capital in 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e64	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e67	We heard the state council say that the state would cover one third of the operating expenses, up to 100 million. kr. We also know from experience that this thing about Bergen as a cultural city didn't go so well financially. I wonder what the Council of State has intended to say to Stavanger and Sandnes if they actually don't manage to stay within this budget. Do they then have to take money from their own municipalities, and do they possibly go beyond the primary tasks? Another thing I could imagine asking the Council of State for is: Is there an application at the Council of State for support for a new concert hall in Stavanger?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e74	To take the last one first: No, there is no application for a new concert house in Stavanger on my table at the moment. I expect that there will be an application, for a plan to build a new concert hall in Stavanger. But these two things don't need to be seen in context. It is possible to get Stavanger as a cultural city without having a concert hall, and it is also possible to provide support for a concert hall regardless of what the EU responds to the application for Stavanger as a cultural city. That Bergen didn't go so well as a city of culture, it's probably shared opinions about. Bergen raised a budget that was approx. one-third, a little bit more, of what the Stavanger region is doing. The Stavanger region wants to bet larger. The mountains were a cultural city in 2000, and then there were a lot of cities. Now it's about two, maybe three. It depends on whether they expand to have one from their search countries, one from outside the EU and one from outside the EU. There are many components here that are unknown, but I am absolutely sure they will have financial control over the project in Stavanger.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e81	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e86	It is now almost five years since the idea that the Stavanger region should have the ambition to become a European city of culture, was first launched. At that time, a lot of people wondered if one had taken water over his head. It was, however, what many now call a big head to measure, and it created after each uproar and enthusiasm. With the decision today, the project is moving from the Stavanger region’s application to become Norway’s application. Now Norway is seeking to provide Europe with a cultural city in 2008, such as the United Kingdom with Liverpool. I am pleased that the State has chosen to stress this through the solid economic participation proposed by the Government, and I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Council of State for the commitment she has shown in this matter. For this is not only a cultural boost for the Stavanger region, it gives us a unique opportunity to get Norwegian culture out into Europe, but not least to let us inspire others. Stavanger as a cultural haven is a concept linked to the application, and this has a double meaning. Stavanger has long traditions for its international relations through both shipping, munitions and oil activities. And where people meet, there arise and cultures develop. But Stavanger also has a more recent tradition, which tempted persecuted writers. Thus, the application will also be linked to a desire to use this opportunity to mark freedom of expression, but not least transparency of expression also in art species other than literature, where one can come to Stavanger and show what one stands for. In 2000, there was an exhibition at Solastranden, called «Another Place», at Anthony Gormly. That exhibition was extremely controversial locally before it came into place. There was great resistance, but it created, to be such an alternative exhibition, very much enthusiasm and excitement in the population afterwards. It shows that with such an exhibition, an eye opened and got a new perspective. And in many ways, I'm going to think that maybe that exhibition was in preparation for the reason that it was possible to carry through such a great ambition as becoming a European city of culture. Unfortunately, we do not have political membership in Europe, but at least we can say and underline that we are a part of Europe culturally. And it may be more important than ever to stress it in these days when the EU is to be enlarged, and that we therefore use this opportunity to highlight our relationship with Europe by applying to become a European city of culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e97	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox We now come to a number of issues that have been proposed by the meeting of Odelsting, with the exception of the case. [[Food, see page 3282]] No 17. Is there anyone in the Chamber who has anything against the President just referring to the number of the case, and we come back to the name of the proposer during the vote? – No one speaks against it, and then the president will only refer to the number of the case. Let's save time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e116	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3282]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e133	The President will take note of a correction here. The proposal is from the Progress Party, not from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3282]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e150	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3282]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e167	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3283]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e184	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3283]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e201	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3283]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e218	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3283]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e235	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3283]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e252	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3283]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e270	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3283]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e286	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3284]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e303	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3284]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e320	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3284]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e337	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3284]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e354	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3284]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e371	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3284]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e388	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3284]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e405	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3285]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e422	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3285]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e439	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3285]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e457	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3285]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e474	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3285]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e491	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3285]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e508	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3285]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e525	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3286]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e542	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3286]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e559	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3286]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e576	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3286]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e593	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3286]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e610	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3286]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e627	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3286]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e645	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3286]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e662	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3287]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e679	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3287]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e696	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3287]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e713	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3287]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e730	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3287]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e747	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3287]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e764	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3287]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e781	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3288]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e798	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3288]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e815	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3288]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e836	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3288]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e853	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3288]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e870	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3288]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e887	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3289]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e904	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3289]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e921	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3289]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e938	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3289]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e955	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3289]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e972	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3289]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e989	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3289]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1005	I'm sorry to have to break this series of silence, but I have to say something on behalf of the Presidency about the setting that the sample I've been leading for a while has given. What we have done is to review the remunerations and other aspects of the position as a staging representative. I would first like to refer to excellent Document No. 17, which is the sample report and which is recommended to be read. It deals with very important information about our working conditions and comparable working conditions. I believe that this call should be addressed to the representatives of the wholesalers, so that no one can say that they did not know what the document says. We were given a great deal of freedom to deal with different issues that we found necessary, and that's why Document No. 17 a good and transparent picture of the different things we've taken up. A major clearing job was done in 1996 in our compensation schemes, so the sample I have now managed has been more tasked with making some adjustments and tightening in areas where it has been seen to be necessary, without significant changes being made. The pensions are such a comprehensive subject that we have not addressed. If we had done that, we had to have much more time. But I'm sure you'll come back to that at a later stage. The main points of what has been proposed are as follows: A majority of the sample, all parties in the sample other than the Advance Party, propose that the remuneration of the Grand Prix President be the same as that of the Prime Minister and that this be effective from 1 January 2004. In addition, alternative models of supplementary allowances should be identified for committee leaders and parliamentary leaders. There it is that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party believe that both of these functions should have additional compensation. The waiting and early retirement scheme is tightened up in line with the decisions of the Board of Pensions. I would like to say here that the board of directors took on the unfortunate results that we saw in the media at a very early stage, and they have done a comprehensive job of cleaning. The selection that I have managed, and now the presidency, is very pleased with what the pension board has done, and that means that the early retirement and early retirement scheme is tightened up in line with the decisions of the pension board. The curtailment rules in relation to other income are substantially tightened and those that meet as alternates to the Storting must not be able to receive both the waiting wage or the pension and attendance allowance at the same time. In addition, we want to figure out alternative models. I'll get back to that, that's another case. A majority of the sample is in favour of the main continuation of the diet scheme as at present, and the entire sample supports a reinforced practice with regard to the payment of the maximum diet rate. This means that those who actually live in their main apartment should have the same daily allowance as representatives living in the Oslo region, and we suggest that it be added to reporting procedures to ensure this. Then we propose changes to the rules that apply to the day-to-day allowance in case of sick leave over three months. After three months, you don't get a daily allowance anymore. The housing scheme is continued as today, but the sample and the Presidency propose to tighten up the existing rules on the presence of the representative in the main apartment and it is proposed that there should be no derogation from the ban on rentals already in place. Furthermore, the committee considers that representatives who return to the Storting after being in the government and who have disposed of the commuting house through the government housing system should move to the large apartment within a reasonable period of time and, as a general rule, within three months. It is also proposed to introduce an upper limit on the use of the home telephone of NOK 15 000 per person. years, which is in addition to today's excess of NOK 2000. The coverage of mobile phone use is proposed on the other hand increased from NOK 7 000 to NOK 9 000 per person. years, this because mobile phones become an increasingly important tool for the representatives, and the development of new mobile services makes it necessary to increase the limit on what is considered to be a useful use. In this sample, we have assessed the leave scheme and the replacement scheme. A majority suggests that, as a general rule, a lower limit of five days’ absence be introduced in order to apply for leave, unless the absence is due to the illness of itself or of children or to participation in the delegation appointed by the Grand Duchy. The Presidency has clarified the rule so that participation in the delegation appointed by the Presidency is also covered by the exemption. Otherwise, legislative changes will be proposed in the Pensions Act, which will be addressed by Odelstingen related to the waiting wage scheme. So that the prime minister should serve the same thing as the prime minister. The reason for this is the formal relationship between accumulation and government, and it is a sign that the president's office as head of the country's elected assembly is such an important function in our governance system that it should also be a proportionality of wages. A majority of the Presidency shall propose amendments to the provision on the remuneration of depositors in Section 1 accordingly. Similar rules apply in Sweden and Denmark, and also in the other Nordic countries, the President has a higher remuneration than other representatives. The representation grant granted by the President of the Grand Duchy is assumed to lapse as a result of this change. For the other members of the Presidency, no changes shall be made here. The Wage Commission shall continue to determine the remuneration of the Wage Representatives and Government Members, but with the approval of the Stortinget. Document No 17, which I have mentioned several times, contains many interesting information about comparable compensation schemes. For the sake of order, I would just like to mention very briefly: the representatives of the Grand Duchy are making NOK 545000 a year, while the rapporteurs on average in the ten largest municipalities, except Oslo, have an average salary of NOK 562,000 per year, i.e. slightly more than the representatives of the Grand Duchy. In Oslo, for example, the rapporteur, Mr 800 000 kroner, and the average for the rapporteurs is 586 000 kroner. So they have a little bit more than what they get. For information, for example: The LO manager pays the same salary as the State Councils, i.e. 800,000 kroner per year. year – this is just for the sake of comparison. It is the same in the sample and in the Presidency on the continuation of the diet scheme, with SV proposing that it be phased out and partially compensated in the flat-rate remuneration. The majority emphasise that the current system provides a good solution in terms of non-remuneration of representatives, irrespective of their place of residence, and is also a practical arrangement for the representatives. It is the same rates that are otherwise used as commuting deductions for all other commuters in Norway, which are used for representatives’ daily allowances. During the 1996 revision, the diet scheme was simplified and cleaned up, and the experience after the conversion does not suggest any changes now in the view of the majority. The SV’s proposal would also provide a real wage reduction for district representatives throughout the year, and the majority sees no reason for such discrimination. In the case of disease, the rules for daily allowances are today such that the daily allowance is reduced by 50 pst. in case of sick leave beyond three months. And as I said before, we're suggesting that the right to a day's pay should be completely lost if the sick leave lasts more than three months. With regard to the proposal for a general rule that leave should be reserved for a period of five days, the starting point has been the wish that more short-term absences should be arranged through the exchange system and that the convening of alternates should be reserved as far as possible for longer absences. Calling alternates for very short absences provides a lot of work and extra costs for the Storting, and often also brings practical disadvantage to the alternates. By being called preferably in case of longer absences, their ability to do a real job as a representative will be much better. In addition, it is desirable to explore the possibility of introducing fixed voting times. In very special situations, leave shall also be granted in cases other than those initially mentioned in the provision proposed in Section 27 of the Rules of Procedure. For example, the selection has: in the case of voting on draft constitutions or proposals which may lead to a government crisis. There's a lot to say about the different compensation schemes we have. We don't have any pleasures, we don't have any hidden arrangements, and what the Presidency now recommends to the Stortinget to decide, I can therefore recommend at the warmest.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1056	The leader of the selection, representative Brørby, has been through most of them in a clean and straightforward way. I'll just comment a little bit on the points where I have a different setting than the multiple. However, let me introductoryly say that it is important that we have arrangements for magnificence representatives, for the populace, which is such that at least those who want to – I think it is they all, most of us – do the best possible job for people and countries, have the opportunity to do it without feeling like waitresses or risk being hung out in the media for no reason. If we have arrangements that are rigid, I'm afraid that the bureaucracy will eat up the potential profits we would get. However, it is clear that we should also have legislation that will as far as possible prevent abuse and exploitation of a system. There is, therefore, one in the Commission has tried to find a balance between these concerns, so that one has systems that are so flexible that one feels that one as a staging representative and ombudsman and wife of the people is able to do their job. When it's in evidence, we have another hold when it's in relation to the pay terms of the prime minister. Let me now say that I have full understanding and great respect for the argument of the plurality of comparing the Greatness with the Government. I understand that the Grand President is the highest elected person in the country. Nevertheless, we thought that one should have as a starting point that a comparable amount of work and pressure in that way. Our argument to keep the scheme we have today, where the Grandfather has an extra proof of approximately NOK 100,000, is that there is an arrangement we want to continue looking out of it. As a matter of principle, we believe that all the deposit representatives should initially have the same salary, but then people who get some additional jobs in Stortinget must have some extra evidence. That's where we're going to separate from the plural. We thought that the Presidency and the commissioners should get extra evidence from the Storting, because they are elected by the Storting organ. Parliamentary leaders are selected and elected by their big groups, and it is not the Stortinge that has been appointed and elected. That is why we believe that extra evidence must be found for parliamentary leaders within the groups. Let it also be said that I believe that the groups should pay better salaries to parliamentary leaders. When it comes to committee leaders, it can be said that most people have the same pressure, even though we know that there are committees where the pressure is slightly greater than in others. But it is clear that when it comes to the pressure of parliamentary leaders, there is a separate greater pressure on one who hires a group of 50-60 compared to one who hires a group of two, and not to talk about a group at one! Then one could skip that differentiation by organizing the groups themselves! When it comes to retirement, waiting pay, early retirement, I thought the representative Brørby gave a very good explanation, and I fully support her when she gives praise to the pension board for what they have done. When it comes to diet or daily allowance for double households, I support the plurality and I want to say that I thought the argument there was good. When it comes to leave, we have the impression that the arrangements that have more or less silently worked in Stortinget after a request from the Presidency that the groups should be careful with and perhaps leave to seek leave for representatives of questions during a week are a good arrangement. I think that the system that the plural now provides makes it difficult for many representatives to take on a lot of work tasks around the country and have the ombudsman role that is intended for us. She's getting too rich. The system is now so watered down with the exception of what the majority suggest, that in practice it's only going to be about what we have today, because the exceptions are so many, so there's no problem to implement. I would just like to say in the end that it is a little strange that the pressure, which has been so interested in these arrangements as they have been for a long time – they love to hang out big ones – is not present today. If one had crossed the street to the Tostrup basement, one might have found them there. I would like to mention that when the selection was to obtain information about the journalist's working conditions and what they like to call "good things", we could get them under one command, and it was that we had to treat them confidentially! It was a little interesting to note that when it blatantly spelled out their working conditions, their mobile phone, their diet goods, and all of this, they weren't so interested in getting the public to do it. But we have here, as I said, an open and honest setting that shows what we have – nothing is hidden.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1075	I would also like to thank the chairman for a very tidy review and for a clean management of this group. In most areas, we also agree with the grips being taken. I would like to say that it is incredibly important that our arrangements be seen as tidy and legitimate, that as elected and elected representatives of the people, we should not have other arrangements than those that most people have. We're not going to be low pay, and neither are we. Our arrangements should make it possible to recruit widely, but it should also reflect that we are elected people – we are ombudsmen. That's why we're not going to have arrangements that separate us from people. The policy shall primarily be recruited on the basis of commitment and not on the basis of lucrative arrangements. That is why we are pleased that the Brørby Committee has gone through the arrangements – that is the third review. It was necessary to do so, despite the fact that it was only a few years since it was last done. We are pleased that this review has resulted in some important intensifications. We are particularly pleased with the restrictions and clarifications made in relation to early retirement and early retirement, which are due to our member of the Board of Pensions taking this up at an early stage. But I also want to pay tribute to the Board of Pensions for having carried out this review and made the cuts and clean-up work that they have done. As I said, we agree with most of the arrests. That's why I want to focus on saying something about what we disagree with, and where we have other suggestions. We disagree that today's diet allowance will continue. Some cleanups were carried out in 1996, but we believe it would have been desirable to have re-examined them and to see if it would not have been reasonable to clean them up even more. Then why do we want to abolish the diet scheme? Firstly, because we believe that different grants should be included as far as possible in the ordinary remuneration, so that it becomes clear what is the real income of the representatives. Second, because we're going to have arrangements like the other one. Many of us are commuters, and it's reasonable that we get compensated for double households in some way. But other commuters get compensated for it through the commuting deduction in connection with the tax. Moreover, such a system as we propose would be easy to manage. Equal compensation would be paid to all the representatives, and one would drop any balances or grey areas about who would have a high or low diet. That being said, the majority has proposed to go in for some restraints. These restrictions are supported by us when they are carried out within the current system. Furthermore, we disagree with the view that the Wage Commission should in practice have the last words in fixing the remuneration of the representatives, and that the Storting should only be on sand. We disagreed that the Commission was set up in 1996, and we still disagree with that. We believe that the Storting should be able to have opinions other than those of the Commission. I say that ‘should be able to have the opportunity to’, because in our opinion it should not be automatic in that. There should be no pure spinal cord reflex, but it may be necessary, for example. for some years with zero growth requirements for the large employee groups, the possibility of saying anything other than the Wage and Wage Commission shall be available. The Presidency proposes that we carry out an investigation to provide additional remuneration to committee leaders and parliamentary leaders. We see that there may be arguments for giving this extra compensation based on responsibility and amount of work. That is why we support an investigation, but per year. Today, we do not see enough reason to go in favour of extra compensation either to committee leaders or to parliamentary leaders. As far as parliamentary leaders are concerned, I fully support the view of the representative of the Progressive Party. That is why we are not taking part in the comments either in the case of committee leaders or in the case of parliamentary leaders. So until we deal with what we're not dealing with today: the general plans. We have not seen it as our mandate to look at it either. It is, as the sample manager said, a comprehensive work. That is why we have not proposed it in this round, but it is clear to everyone in this Chamber that we believe that we need to do something about the general pension schemes. The consequence of that view is that we will come back with proposals on it at a later stage. I have recorded that the 1996 Presidency also felt that this had to be investigated at some point. I assume the presidency didn't think it would go winter and spring before you did. By and large, we're satisfied. There are some constraints that make our arrangements both reasonable and more transparent. I then mentioned the proposal to abolish the diet scheme, which we have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1103	The representative of Ågot Valle has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1106	The review that has now been carried out by various schemes for grossing-up representatives on remuneration has been a positive review, in the sense that I believe that some of the areas where it was necessary have been tightened up and some of the conditions that were right to be clarified better than today have also been clarified. The centre party agrees with most of the considerations in the setting. We share the majority's view on remuneration for the Grandfather and also on the continuation of today's diet. We also agree that further consideration should be given to the question of remuneration to committee leaders and parliamentary leaders. But we want to make it clear that the Central Party has not in any way taken a decision on the realities of any question of increased remuneration for these two groups, and that we will come back to it in the context of a later investigation. I would like to stress that we have previously made divergent proposals in relation to the majority of pension schemes for large-scale investors. We have recorded that it has not been part of the mandate of the sample that has now passed through the remunerations, and that that question will be further investigated and discussed at a later stage. The centre party considers it to be a certain problem, particularly with regard to the smaller groups, that the Rules of Procedure require absences to be of longer duration than five days before the granting of leave. Like the representative Solholm, we see a problem with regard to our task of being an ombudsman, and could travel around the country to carry out that kind of business. In particular, it will be a problem for smaller groups, which will be even more dependent on an exchange system that will need to be flexible in order to meet the challenges faced by smaller groups. That is why, in the light of these comments, I would like the Group of the Party of European Socialists to vote against II in the vote, but that we also support the majority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1117	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 59. [[Fotation, see page 3289]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1134	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party and Right 15 minutes, Advance Party, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – All this shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1145	It is simply a great pleasure to be able to present the position of the family, cultural and administrative committee on kindergarten policy. In this context, we have reached a broad agreement on childcare policy in the years to come. That means that all seven of the parties that are really behind this deal, each of them has given way to some of their primary positions. At the same time, however, we have reached a very broad and solid consensus on a kindergarten policy that will both provide predictability and security for those who are going to build, operate and, not least, use kindergartens in the years to come. The objectives of kindergarten policy have a long history. It was formulated a target quite many years ago that, by the turn of the century, in 2000, we would be able to cope with full child-care coverage. In the Sem Declaration, the goal was moved to 2003, and in what we are now presenting, we set the goal of achieving full child care coverage during 2005, defined by the fact that everyone who wants it will have a place within a reasonable time. It is part of the picture that what is full child care coverage has also changed along the way. In the first place, we talked about 70 pst. Coverage, we talked about 80 pst. Coverage, and the ECG Communication also discusses whether the need may be up to 87 pst. It is true that when something gets cheaper, more people would like to take advantage of such an offer. The kindergarten policy also has a history here, among other things. with the decision taken last year on the basis of the agreement concluded between the Workers' Party, the Party of Progress, the Party of SV and the Centre and the suspension submitted in connection with the revised national budget last June. The suspension and the nature of the contract raised a number of questions, required a number of investigations and required further answers. That job the department has done and returned to, in the kindergarten message that has been submitted. The result was some significant changes not only to what was agreed in the suspension last year, but also some significant changes to the suspension of the Government. My claim is that what we've come up with is actually better than both the agreement we made last year, and that was the message. It shows that compromise, working together, can actually produce a result that can bring with it the best elements of different views. The government had set the goal for kindergarten policy that everyone who wants it should have a place, that there should be an economic equality between private and municipal kindergartens, that there should be a reduction in parental pay, and that there should be a quality and diversity in the offer. The Committee endorses all these objectives, but has progressed in its position, concretely and more precisely in a number of areas. We note that the Government believes that full coverage is the main objective. The Committee fully agrees that this is a crucial objective, but we have, to the best of our ability, tried to achieve a kindergarten policy that enables us to achieve all the objectives we have for kindergarten policy at the same time, both low pay, diversity and quality, full deployment and a genuine offer to all. The good operating economy in kindergartens is, of course, fundamental to that. The development has been made concrete by saying that this year as well as next year, 12,000 new kindergartens are to be built. Then, in the 2005 state budget, we will assess how many places are needed to get full coverage. We know more about that then, because then we see how demand is developing, and we can finally determine how many spaces are needed to reach full demand coverage. We now see that after a sudden stop in the nursery building when the cash support came in the years 1998-1999, we have speeded up again. Last year around 6,000 kindergartens were built, and this year it is currently around 9 000 according to the latest figures. But there is reason to believe that what is proposed in the revised, namely a sharp increase in the investment grant, will get that figure even higher. The Committee also agrees unanimously with that conversion, that 280 million. kr is transferred to an increased investment grant and believes that the investment grant should be kept at a high level until we reach the objective of full coverage of needs. An important discussion in the Committee has been the funding model for kindergartens. The government had proposed the inclusion of the nursery allowance in the framework transfers to municipalities from 1 January 2004. Last year's kindergarten agreement stated in principle that most of the public support was to come through an ear-marked state grant. We have found a model that lies between it, where municipalities still play a significant role by having a grant based on today’s contribution – which, according to the latest figures from the calculations made in the child care service, amounts to around SEK 4.5 billion – and then the increase in the government grant will come through the earmarked state grants. That means that as we go up to 80 pst, the relative share of the municipalities will go down. At the same time, however, it means that municipalities will continue to play a significant role in childcare policy. We also conclude on the proposal on equal treatment between municipal and private kindergartens. The Committee considers that it is natural to combine it with the equalisation of State aid. A different state contribution has been proposed, which has been approved by the Financial Committee. However, a «equivalent treatment», which is the correct description in the setting, of private and public kindergartens in the municipalities, should be accompanied by a similar government grant. It is up to the Government of the State Budget for 2004 to come back with proposals for phase-in in a way that is practical and appropriate both for municipalities, for private kindergartens and for users. We also say that within the public support of 80 pst. there will be a need for a ‘full-time buffer’ to balance the cost differences between municipalities in relation to kindergartens. This is assuming to be 200 million. kr. One area in which we haven't fully reached the goal of consensus is the individual statutory right to kindergarten. A majority of the Committee believes that it should be introduced once we have received full child-care coverage, while the Committee's minority, Right and Christian People's Party, will come back to that issue once we have achieved full child-care coverage. Of course, the maximum price and regulation of parental payment has been a matter for the users of kindergartens and their parents have been most concerned about, perhaps the most parents. Here we have also worked to reach an agreement – we say we should have a maximum limit on the parental payment, but we also take some reservations and make the maximum price a little more flexible. We are simply creating security systems to ensure that no kindergartens are bankrupt or that the quality is affected by the damage caused to the operating economy. From 1 May next year the maximum limit shall be NOK 2500 and from 1 August 2005 it shall be NOK 1500. Both figures shall be priced and cost-adjusted until then. We have described in more detail what assumptions should be in place. Among other things, we say that the government in spring 2005 needs to provide a model for introducing a maximum price of DKK 1500, so that the objectives of diversity and quality of supply can also be met. We also say that the income and sibling moderation system must be maintained in such a way that they are at least as good as today, and ask the Government to come back with proposals to that effect. Tax exemptions for employer-owned kindergartens have also been a central point of our discussions. Here, too, we have reached agreement. In this case, the interest on the part shall be reduced from NOK 18 000 to NOK 9 000 per year, and shall be reduced to zero for the following year, and an exemption from the employer’s tax shall be granted. We also have to go through the terms and get back to Stortinget with the regulation in an appropriate way. We have not agreed on the rights of employees. Here a minority have written comments that it is important to ensure good and orderly conditions for the employees of private kindergartens as well, and the Workers’ Party makes a proposal to that effect. It was not natural for us to agree. We had quite conflicting opinions. Some were at an absolute maximum price, some were absolute at a maximum price. Some were for tax exemptions, some were against tax exemptions. We had quite a long way to go to agree. But it is quite historic that we succeeded. Seven parties – a unanimous growth – carry out a reform that in reality means that kindergartens become as natural a part of our welfare system as schools, care for the elderly and hospitals. It's in this way a historic decision. I recommend that the Committee be set up and address the proposal of the Workers' Party. I also want to pay great tribute to the committee that I have worked with to get this position in port.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1182	The representative Trond Giske has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1185	Initially, as committee leader, I would like to take the opportunity to give work to both the case rapporteur and the rest of the committee for good work, and for the agreement to be dropped safely in port, even overtime. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for a thorough presentation of the Committee's position. There won't be any need for me to go into all the details, it was a thorough review. It is with great joy and satisfaction that we can now see that there is a broad consensus on a historical reform of child care policy. A broad settlement is a victory for families with children, for equality and for working life. Our society is based on the fact that both women and men are out of work, and the possibility of organising safe and good childcare services is a prerequisite. I will quote from Today's Business Friday, June 13, which in the leadership position says the following: ‘The agreement on the maximum price of kindergartens is a win for reason and a defeat for the big business. Many and cheap kindergartens are good for both families with children and business. It is understandable that politicians will bet here. But bets must be more than willingness to spend money. It must also be a willingness to use them sensibly." That's a consideration that I share. At the start of the negotiations in the Committee, opposition parties and government parties stood far apart — not in terms of the goal of kindergarten for all those who want it and lower parental pay, but in terms of the means of achieving this goal. Finally, however, we managed to arrive at a settlement with which everyone can live and which is realistic and feasible. The government has said that this agreement can be implemented. The Landsförbund of Private Barnehager has expressed their satisfaction with the agreement, as do the Municipalities’ Central Association – and it is reassuring. As I was faced with it, the parties stood far apart when the negotiations started. The government parties demonstrated unequivocal and strong resistance to last year's child care agreement between the opposition parties. We feared that a cap on the parental payment in kindergarten would stand in the way of the goal of kindergarten space for everyone. We warned against the rigid maximum price leading to both over- and under-funding of kindergartens, i.e. both waste and bankruptcy at once. We warned against the rigid max price, because it could lead to a reduction in the quality and diversity of kindergartens. The government's pediatric report showed that we were far on the way in our warnings. In a short time, the government had undertaken and carried out a comprehensive and absolutely necessary investigation into the consequences, as the opposition had also requested. The independent investigations showed clearly that a rigid maximum price would be cost-effective, it would become bureaucratic and threaten the diversity and quality of kindergartens. Worst of all, the rigid max price was in the way of the goal of full babysitting and room for everyone who wants it. As in most negotiations, all parties have had to have four main points of view, which were also referred to by the rapporteur. And I'm not hiding that for the Right, it has been a significant concession to accept the principle of maximum price, just for the reasons I have mentioned, which are described in the Storing Message. In return, the opposition has taken over the knowledge of the very unfortunate consequences of a rigid system. They have taken inwards that the maximum price cannot be rigid, but must be flexible. With a flexible maximum price as a safety valve, we've hopefully secured ourselves against uniformity and reduced quality in the kindergarten sector, we've secured ourselves against bankruptcy, and we've made sure that the goal of full child gardening is achieved. Space for all those who want it is and will in the years to come be the goal number one in the kindergarten policy. I am therefore pleased that Stortinget fully agrees that the maximum price should be flexible. I am also very pleased that the Stortinget supports the Government's proposal for a significant increase in investment aid at rates up to NOK 50000 for each new completed nursery. This is a force-setting in new locations, and there is reason to be optimistic about reaching the targets. As regards the rate of expansion of new sites, the Committee agrees that the agreed target of 12 000 new sites will remain for the current year. The goal for next year is to build the same number of new sites. For 2005, however, the Committee asks the Government to review the estimates of the need for new places, because there is reason to believe that lower prices and more kindergartens will lead to shifts in demand. At this stage, it is therefore difficult to give a precise estimate of the need in 2005 and beyond. But I want to make it clear that the goal of full coverage and space for anyone who wants it is firm. This day is primarily historical for those who use kindergartens: the children and the parents. It is for the parents of young children who have the main reason to be satisfied that the whole of the Storting is now joining the kindergarten policy. At the same time, we might have to think inwards that the families don't necessarily have great confidence that we can now keep what we promise, that everyone will get a place, and that the prices are going down. Children's families have been promised a very long time by changing governments and corporations. It will therefore now be up to all parties behind this reform to deliver what we have now promised, so that trust between the families of children and us can be restored. With regard to tariff and contractual issues, on which the rapporteur was involved, I would like to stress to the Right that this is primarily a question for the social partners. I'm a little surprised by the League of Education, which in a survey in the nation today says they'll encourage their members not to work in private kindergartens because we're not here and now willing to legislate on the right to collective agreements. It's a little bit special of a trade union, which is just one of the social partners. You can actually ask yourself, is the Education Association here about to say over the branch they're sitting on? It is shown that teachers and school managers in private schools under the private school law have had a statutory right to pay and working conditions similar to those in public schools. This paragraph has been continued in the recently adopted law on free schooling. This does not mean that employees in private schools should have a blue copy of a municipal collective agreement, but that they should be able to require a similar agreement. I have previously expressed sympathy for the demand that everyone should have an orderly pay and employment relationship, whether they work in public or private. It was just supposed to be missing. There may also be grounds for noting that very many private kindergartens already have well-functioning collective agreements. I have noted with great interest that the Vice-President of the Socialist Left Party, Øystein Djupedal, of the Nations on 13 June, says the following: ‘We cannot impose a collective agreement on anyone. The size is not a trade union, so the question of salary must be negotiated by pre-school teachers with their employers in the same way as all others.» This is a point of view I share. As I said, of course, it is not difficult to agree that everyone should have an orderly pay and employment relationship. In our opinion, they must do so in accordance with the demands made and through negotiations between the parties. But the most important thing now is the broad consensus on this historical reform of kindergarten policy – kindergarten space for all and reduced parental pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1236	I'm joining the hoarder! It is with great pleasure that we are dealing with the kindergarten message, a message in which the political parties have managed to gather on a common solution for kindergartens. For once, the political parties have found out that it is much easier to achieve a goal if everyone rudders up and down. Although there has been a broad consensus for many years on the need for full coverage, lower prices and effective solutions, it has been difficult to reach an agreement so far on how to achieve these objectives. We in the Progress Party have always been of the opinion that it is not useful to adopt full coverage, unless the right instruments are also in place. For the Progress Party, effective market solutions with active private initiative have always emerged as the right drivers to achieve the objectives. It is particularly gratifying that there has been a broad political consensus on a solution for the tax freedom of farm children's gardens. It shall not be put under a chair that some have claimed that its progeny effect will be high. In fact, we want to make the most of the scheme. What is fine is that the scheme is designed to enable small and medium-sized enterprises, too, to offer their employees this opportunity. This will contribute to the further development of kindergartens and increased participation from young children’s parents. By making it easier for young children’s parents to have childcare facilities — in combination with tax exemptions — more people will be able to choose jobs if they want to. That's what's the key: the option of freedom of choice. We in the Progress Party are also very pleased that there is now a legal obligation for the municipalities to treat private and municipal kindergartens in a non-discriminatory manner. The municipalities will then not be able to act as a brake on the private kindergartens. For too long, many private kindergartens have had difficulties with municipal bureaucracy, both in regulatory matters and in public permits, and not least because municipal kindergartens have had advantages in financial matters. Children do not know whether their kindergarten is run by the municipality or by private people. Kids don't care about that either. And adults shouldn't do that either. Now when there is equal treatment for private and public kindergartens, we'll see that it's the best people to run kindergartens that get the most back for the money. It will no longer be decisive whether the nursery is private or public. With equal treatment for municipal and private kindergartens, there will finally be stable framework conditions for all those wishing to establish kindergartens. We in the Progress Party believe that this is the most important measure in that there is agreement that the Storting should adopt today. With stable framework conditions also for private kindergartens, Stortinget’s decision will certainly contribute to the creation of much more private kindergartens. When private places – throughout – provide better ‘currency’ for each krona, this is only for the benefit of families with children. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the agreement that made it possible. As most people probably remember, it was the Progress Party that, together with the Socialist Left Party, took the initiative for a broader consensus on kindergartens. With this initiative, we tried to look beyond the disagreement that had long made it difficult to achieve the objectives of full needs coverage, lower costs and good quality. This initiative was subsequently joined by the Centre Party and the Workers' Party and became known as the Kindergarten Agreement. When we now have a total accumulation behind an agreement, I attribute the agreement of the partners to the credit for this. We know that in the future there will also be questions about how different points in today's decision are to be understood. I'm not worried about such questions. A broad majority – in fact a unanimous majority, almost – commits themselves through today’s decision to bring this forward. At the same time, the joint binding agreement of the nursery friends remains at the bottom. All four contracting parties, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, are all bound by this agreement until the next major elections. This means that any ambiguities can easily be solved, and that we can all work towards a well-functioning kindergarten sector for the benefit of families with children. I should also, of course, thank all my negotiating partners – committee members, the case rapporteur and the committee leader – for getting this into port. We are now hoping that this will give predictability to all kindergarten children throughout Norway. Finally, in the event of an incubation, it is said that the Progress Party is part of the proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox That's not the case. The proposal is from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party. I understand that we are all tired and that things can easily be misunderstood. But we are not co-sponsors of proposal No. Two, May Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1262	That information has been recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1265	First of all, I regret the fact that this has happened to the Progress Party. We will support the Labour Party's proposal and will not address proposal No. 2, which is distributed in the seats of the representatives. We are currently discussing a historic nursery settlement in this Chamber, which has become a reality after Document No. 8:75 for 2001-2002, from Kristin Halvorsen, Øystein Djupedal, Carl I. Hagen and Siv Jensen, which was adopted following a kindergarten agreement between the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, SV and the Centre Party on 11 June last year. We are very pleased that seven parties are behind this deal that is being dealt with here today. There has been a lot of anxiety and uncertainty since the decision last year, and it is necessary that we now all start the job of building a kindergarten for everyone who wants it. The maximum price is important and the background to SV’s proposals and the reform. A maximum price is required, because it is only when it is in place, you will see the need – how many places there are needed. We can see that from what has happened in Sweden. It's the price that many people decide if they have the opportunity to use a nursery place. The Swedish election programme states that a nursery place should have a maximum price and that we should legislate for the right to a nursery place. By the agreement that the seven parties have now reached, SV has had a positive impact on what was one of our main issues in the election campaign, and one thing we have fought for for for many years. All children shall have the right to a nursery place, in the same way as they are entitled to a school place. We are pleased that there is a majority in this Chamber for this court. SV has fought this fight for so many years because kindergartens are good for children. Kindergartens are a good care offer, a good common arena and a good educational offer. Kindergartens also provide vulnerable children with the necessary additional care services in parallel with parents and other caregivers. Kindergartens are a good venue for linguistic and cultural integration of children with a multicultural background. Studies show that kindergarten children, including Norwegians, have better language development than those who are not in kindergarten. Developing languages and a common platform through kindergartens before schooling is important. Kindergartens shall be accessible to all children irrespective of their geographical location and their economic, social or ethnic background. An increasing number of families are excluded from the use of this offer. Cash support has exacerbated this, and we have had a negative trend in equality between mothers of young children and mothers of young children. This nursery arrangement gives parents greater freedom of choice. Full child care coverage has been a struggle for women, the women's movement and the labour movement since the women entered the labour market. The possibility of women's participation in work and gender equality has been reinforced by this agreement. The kindergarten agreement is a major and important reform. The agreement is a major victory for SV, who has fought for full child care coverage and lower self-payment for parents for more than 20 years. What I think is a little sad, is that in this agreement we have not received a majority in favour of the proposal from SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre to provide equivalent pay and employment conditions for private and municipal kindergartens. Women do this important job with our children, and because they are not employed in a municipal nursery, a large part of them do not have a collective agreement or pension plans. The public support we are now investing in private kindergartens by equalising municipal and private kindergartens should be followed up with this requirement. Finally, those who have really won the big lot today are the children themselves and their families. I would like to congratulate them. I would like to say one more time, as I said in connection with the growth message earlier today: this has been a good process, we have reached a settlement, and we should congratulate each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1282	For information – just since SV’s representative was before me: it was a strange story description that was presented, in which I do not fully recognize myself. I want to make it clear that there are not seven parties that have signed up for the nursery agreement. We went into negotiations in the hope of changing the points of the agreement that we would appear to have been quite bad for kindergartens. That's why we all have a deal that we all have today – just to tell you about the process. For the Christian People's Party, this is a happy day. Today, the Stortinget has the greatest kindergarten reform in its history. The road here has been heavy and difficult. Despite the broad agreement of a unanimous political environment on the objectives children's gardening for all those seeking economic equality between private and municipal children's gardeners, the quality of parental payments and the diversity of the offer; there has been considerable disagreement on how the objectives are to be achieved. Before the negotiations started, the instruments from the different parties were so different that many thought it was impossible for us to agree. On the one hand, there was the children's garden opposition agreement, and on the other hand, the government's nursery report was. Although the targets were common, I would say that we started off from each other in the use of instruments. I think it is a victory for the political system that we have found a common path towards our common goals. I believe that some of the reasons we managed to do so are that this time the discussion was in the Trade Union Committee. I want to commend the committee leader, the case rapporteur and the rest of my colleagues for getting into port – it was many night hours and early mornings. This, however, is not primarily a victory for us; this is a victory for children and then for their parents. Anyone in need of kindergarten will have room. Christian People's Party wants to be a family and care party. So we want to give families freedom of choice in a caring way. We want a flexible family policy, so families have choices that meet different needs. Here you also need to be able to combine good values in both home-based care and pedagogical services. Real freedom of choice means having both cash support and full child care coverage. We are therefore pleased that there is a wide-ranging agreement on kindergarten policy at Stortinget. Freedom of choice is not a choice between kindergarten and kindergarten. The Christian People's Party has said that first we have to get places, then we have to make the places cheaper. That is why one of our objectives in the negotiations was to achieve full development. The research community told us that a rigid max price would prevent an expansion rate that would provide enough space for everyone. We are pleased that the Committee has joined the strong increase in investment grants provided by the Government. If we're going to get people to bet on building kindergartens, it's important that we give kindergarten conditions that make it economically possible to run. The myth that there is a rich person – preferably a woman – who owns and runs kindergartens, and collects a surplus that covers his luxury life, I believe, must be declared dead. ==References== 80 pst. private kindergartens are run by parents. Municipalities have played and continue to play an important role in kindergarten policy. The government wanted to add the funding of kindergartens to the municipal sector. At the same time, the Government would ensure the private kindergartens with legislation and good regulations to ensure equal treatment. In the time I have worked on kindergarten policy, it has become very visible that there is a significant lack of trust between private kindergartens and the municipalities. This is something that both KS and Kommune-Norway must take seriously. Private kindergartens have struggled with the establishment and operation of a good number of municipalities. The working party and the government parties are taking part in the municipal economicproposition in order to integrate the kindergartensector from 2006 into the framework funding. Before that time, private kindergartens, which are in many places the backbone of the kindergarten offer, have to experience a more friendly attitude from parts of Kommune-Norway. At one point where we separate layers, the majority say that they want a statutory right to kindergarten in full development. We want to get back to this, but we think it's a better way to control a society by saying that society has a duty to provide space. Our concern about the agreement was that kindergartens had to be laid down, and that no one would dare to bet on kindergartens. Then the goal of a place for anyone who wanted it would be impossible to reach. With the device that the flexible maximum price now receives, the main problems have been solved. When step 1 of NOK 2 500, the price and cost adjusted to approx. EUR 2800, introduced on 1 May 2004, could be taken at a higher price in cooperation with parents if the kindergarten is threatened by depopulation or quality. Before we introduce step 2 of 1500 kroner, the price and cost adjusted to approx. NOK 1 750, we'll see if the goal of almost full needs coverage has been achieved. If not, the timing of the introduction must be reconsidered. In addition, an evaluation of the preliminary experience with stage 1 prior to the introduction of stage 2 shall be carried out. These are two important elements that underline the fact that an overall political environment dares to look at experiences and results before embarking on its own principles. I believe that this is promising for a political process and that it bears witness to a political environment that takes on the responsibility assigned to it. Also at this stage, step 2, opportunities shall be given to take a higher price, still with the agreement of the Parental Committee, if an offer is offered outside the ordinary. This is important in order to maintain diversity in the kindergarten sector. It shall continue to be possible to operate a children’s playground. In addition, there is also a safety margin in the event of a threat of closure at this stage. For the Christian People's Party, it will always be a goal that the ordinary kindergarten offer should be qualitatively good, while at the same time facilitating a diversity of kindergartens. When it comes to the tax question for employers and business children's farms, I have to admit that I am not very happy with the expansion that is taking place here, but I accept it. I am very pleased that we have limited a model that could become incredibly unsocial and animals in their full width. The rights of employees are a different theme that has been addressed. We in the Christian People's Party note that the issue of tariffs is a relationship between the social partners. But we believe that improving the economic conditions of the private kindergartens in particular will make it considerably easier for kindergartens to offer this. I expect, with the improvement that is now taking place, that private nursery owners will continue to work to ensure that employees have an orderly relationship. In the eyes of the Christian People's Party, those who seek a collective agreement must get it. St.meld. No 27 for 1999-2000 had the title ‘Barnehage for the benefit of children and parents’. Message of the day, St.meld. No 24 for 2002–03, the title ‘Economics, diversity and freedom of choice for all’ is replaced by ‘Economics, diversity and freedom of choice’. Today I believe that we have provided a basis for both of these titles.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1327	Against all odds, against the predictions of most media, the seven parties on the Stortinget have agreed to a common kindergarten policy. And it's a big day! For both today's and tomorrow's grandchildren, it must be felt that the Stortinget has at last taken inwards that the working-day of modern young children's parents will work and that young children's parents will have a real choice to choose the form of care, they must have a real choice. Real options cannot be underlined strongly enough. It has shown great will from all parties, and when results-oriented politicians have shown great will, the result has also been good. I think it is more important to look forward and build on the agreement that we have received than to remind each other what we initially disagreed about. From the very first kindergarten message, the goal of full needs coverage has been a repeat in Stortinget, and the time has been shifted over time. Many people have thought, and I still believe, that needs-to-be needs-to-be must be lowered. I have to admit that I also shared ten years ago. But with today's grandchildren, who want to give priority to both children and jobs, I have become more and more overconfident that this must go in parallel. As long as we operate at a high price level in kindergarten, we don't have real choice, nor do we get the real need. There are many municipalities that don't have places for children under the age of three. There is therefore no waiting list. For many parents, it is the price that has set limit to the application. It becomes more reasonable to use your day mother and to receive cash support. In this case, we will not be able to bring the need forward either. When the parental payment goes down, we will also come up with the real need. Our biggest challenge will be to get the rate of expansion up in line with the intentions. I am pleased with the many positive signals coming from the municipalities, which say that they will give priority to kindergartens. That's a promise. The fact that the National Association of Private Barnehagers has also given positive feedback on the agreement is equally important, because these two parties will be our most important support players if we are to achieve the goal. The strong increase in investment will be a good draw for both municipal and private developers. But we all know that the biggest challenge in new and major reforms is the operating costs, and this is a major reform. The centre party is very pleased that the reform will be fully financed by state resources, and that the part of the municipalities will use in kindergartens today, not to be drawn from the framework, but to remain in the municipalities to be used for kindergartens. A state full funding means that other municipal services do not suffer damage. The centre party expects that we will achieve the goal of full needs coverage during 2005. The centre party then welcomes the fact that the children's garden money we use today for kindergartens goes into the local authorities' frames. A 200-million-dollar county buffer. kr would appear to be a security zone with a view to mitigating the cost differences between municipalities. Coordinated uptake will result in a good utilisation of capacity. I would also like to make it very clear that it is very gratifying that children with special needs come under the same category as children with disabilities when it comes to supplements. The first kindergarten in the country we got at the end of the 1800s. He was started by the Husmother Association and was the forerunner of the many private kindergartens we have today. The private kindergartens have made a huge effort that I find a reason to praise. Without their efforts, I'm afraid that we had far fewer kindergartens than what we have today. I am therefore very pleased that we are now receiving full equal treatment for municipal and private kindergartens. It's time, and it eats up the private kindergartens. When so many parties are involved in negotiations, it goes without saying that everyone has to give something in relation to their primary position. Everyone's done that, too. The consequences of what I think will be calm and a proper situation for both users and owners. So my challenge now goes to municipalities and private kindergarten owners: Start building! The size has committed itself to the full funding of the reform, so that we can achieve the goal of a kindergarten space for anyone who wants it, where price should not be an obstacle. So a final explanation of vote: the motion by the Labour Party also receives the vote of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1358	The left is not represented in the family, culture and administration committee, but we of course support the setting and all the committee comments that are there. We have shared in the negotiations, if we were not physically present in the negotiating room, then we have shared in all the meetings and after meetings, both those who went early on the morning quiz, and those who went at night. In addition, it has been quite difficult when one has also negotiated the revised national budget, but I have got very good insight into kindergarten policy. I'm not going to go into Left's view of the nursery arrangement we got last year. But I really want to give praise to those who have their seats and negotiated and are able to bring forward such a broad deal where all the parties are involved. The only one who was not in this was the Coastal Party and the Bastesen, but I am convinced that he also supports the proposal. For the left, the first piece has been important. I'm very happy that a group committee and a group of caverns are now behind saying that the most important thing is a nursery provision for all those who want it, a high-quality nursery offering that guarantees a lack of quality. Of course, we all want this offer to be at the lowest price possible, and I hope it will happen in the long term, as well as to equalise private and municipal kindergartens. But in the year we're behind, there's probably been a lot of uncertainty among those who're going to build these kindergartens, because it's actually not the Big Thing that builds them. The state is not the one building them. And whatever we think, and what goals we see about the number of kindergartens, there are some others who are going to take that task. Therefore, this reconciles such an important settlement to give a clear signal to those who are going to do this job. It is also important that such a settlement is anchored in the parties which have government, which is to administer the adoption of the Great Government, which is to carry it out, and which will also see it in good health when it comes to the economy. When we bring the government party, it's a really powerful signal to everyone out there that we actually mean something. I also want to say that I am very happy that one has received a flexible max price that allows one to give it a lack and have a good quality babysitting. After the Left's view, maybe it was the biggest bend, if one had had a rigid max price, to secure more babysitting places. Then I'm very happy that even if we didn't get the funding that the Left wanted, that's that this should be in the framework of the municipalities – and the Left trusts our municipal politicians – I think that they would probably give priority to kindergarten development. In any case, Ein has been given an agreement with the Labour Party in the municipal bill that, in 2006, when we have guaranteed full childcare, it will be the municipalities that will be responsible for transferring the money to the kindergarten. This will also apply to private kindergartens in municipalities as they become equal. I'm glad that the government has shown a willingness to bet on kindergarten expansion. It has a certain willingness in the budget that we are going to revise on Friday. With the current bet, it's only up to the other players out there to start the expansion. Both the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager and the Municipal Councils – if they did not take the ‘wave’ – it was not that far from the time this kindergarten agreement became known. We've given the right signals from this house that they can bet. They've been assured that we're going to invest money in this, and we've also signaled to parents that one will secure full kindergarten expansion, and we'll also go in and secure a lower price. So this is a good day for all young children's parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1373	The Committee has commended each other for its efforts. So let me therefore thank some others who have contributed to this historic promise we are taking today. It's Hill-Marta Solberg from the Workers' Party, it's Siv Jensen from the Progress Party, it's Morten Lund from the Center Party, and it's us. We started last year a process that has led up to what we see today. Without the proposal initially made by the SV and the Progress Party, this process would never have been as it has been. This historical agreement is primarily due to the fact that there was a majority in the United Kingdom who wanted and were impatient after making promises in the 2001 election campaign, which otherwise had never been fulfilled. In fact, this is largely the subject of the childcare arrangement, in addition to this historic promise for the young children’s parents, which is the policy’s reputation. So it was that many parties in the 2001 election campaign once again promised to young children’s parents that kindergartens would be a bet area. The first post-election government budget showed that for most parties this was just a mouth hole, and especially the government parties showed that they had no willingness to bet on kindergarten. That is why this agreement was necessary, and that is why this conciliation started a process to correct what is a policy reputation. Many have said that this is a struggle between big business and government, and that this is about a kind of background agenda about a power struggle between big business and government. Nothing could have been more wrong. This is primarily about fulfilling promises made by many parties to voters, recovering the reputation of politics, and not least regaining the confidence of these hundreds of thousands of young children’s parents who have long wanted this promise. There has been a long period of uncertainty from last year until this decision, and much of the uncertainty lies in the need to create a majority, a majority wider than the majority we had. Unfortunately, the government would not be in our last year, for various reasons. I'm very sorry, because it would be very good if we had got this deal a year ago. Then much of the uncertainty that many have felt would have been cleared of the way. This uncertainty means that very many parents and very many kindergarten builders – whether private or local – still have a little difficulty believing it: this is almost too good to be true, almost too good, we don't believe it. That means that we who make up the majority, and it's today all parties, not just us who made it from the old by, have a common responsibility to clear this uncertainty out of the way. This means that on the government there is a special responsibility in the future budgets to stay loyal to the agreement that has been fulfilled here: don't cut a bit here and there, don't try to save $50,000 or a little dollars here and there, as we have experience of doing. The point is that this is necessary in order for the kindergarten agreement, the broad agreement we now have, to become a reality, and for parents to see that one actually means serious. So a little bit to the agreement itself. Originally, it contained an instrument that has been highly controversial, namely the maximum price. The maximum price is inspired by a similar scheme in Sweden, which has been an outstanding success. There are all Swedish parents and all parties behind the maximum tariff and will not think of taking it away. Our hope and our belief is that the maximum price as an instrument in a couple of years will be exactly as natural in Norway as it is in Sweden today, simply because it is the only guarantee we have that the parents get the benefit of the bet we do. Unfortunately, all the experience shows that large-scale child care development over many years has not gone to the young children’s parents and to the development, but on the contrary has gone quite differently. Therefore, the maximum price is the instrument to provide for this, and of course it is not in the way of development. Some have tried to have this as a mantra in this debate as well. Nothing could have been more wrong. The question is only if you have the will to bet on this. Of course, if you want to bet, with the economic and the various instruments you have, it's quite possible to get a reinforced expansion at the same time as the price goes down. It was in our original proposal for last year's agreement, and it is still there. This agreement, which has now gathered a large majority in Stortinget, I am very pleased. But this would never have been a reality without the agreement last year. This would never have been a reality without the good tools that we have provided to become part of it. My last strong call will then be: Now the government has to stop looking more uncertain about this. We are going to make this promise together for all the country's grandchildren, but it requires loyalty to what is adopted today, that we do not engage in new endless rematches, which I am afraid we might experience. This is a day of joy. We in SV are very proud that we took the initiative to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1392	I am also very pleased with the agreement we have been able to make. Like everyone else, I want to make it so simple and say that I thank everyone who's been with me. There's a lot of people behind it. Kindergarten is a policy area where there is broad political agreement on the main objectives. There is also a common understanding that it is important to bet on kindergartens. Nevertheless, in particular, in the last six months there has been significant political disagreement on the order in which the objectives are to be achieved and priorities, and also on which instruments are best suited to achieving the objectives. There have sometimes been rather harsh fronts in the debate that has been taking place. That's why it's especially gratifying for me to say that we've now managed to get a broad majority for a good kindergarten policy that will ensure kindergarten space for everyone who wants it, and a parental payment that's at an acceptable level. When the nursery agreement was concluded between the opposition parties one year ago, the government had significant counter-representations. In particular, we were concerned that a maximum price scheme would hamper the development. We also believed that it would be irresponsible to implement the agreement without having determined the consequences for the sector. The investigations confirmed the Government’s arguments about the unfortunate aspects of a rigid regulation of the parental payment. In the kindergarten communication, the government has discussed the agreement and kindergarten policy on a broad basis, based on the knowledge and recommendations of the external investigations. I am glad that this too has paved the way for new negotiations on a better solution for the kindergarten sector, as some have also pointed out earlier here today. In particular, I'm happy, like someone else, that we've agreed on a maximum price that's more flexible. This ensures reduced parental pay but without threatening the objective of full needs coverage. Flexibility also ensures the quality and diversity of the sector by opening up higher parental payments if the kindergartens offer a wider range of services. In order to ensure that the introduction of a maximum price does not go beyond the other objectives of the sector, an evaluation of the scheme is agreed in 2005 before stage 2. In particular, this evaluation will focus on results in relation to the objective of full needs coverage. The opposition has adhered to the Government’s proposal for an investment grant that is nearly triple the amount of today’s incentive grant. This will be an important tool for speeding up kindergarten development. In Ot.prp. No 76 for 2002–03. I believe there is reason to have great expectations that the changes to the law will also lead to more kindergartens. I am pleased that the Government and opposition at Stortinget seem to agree to use these legal instruments in kindergarten policy. It is important to provide the municipality as a nursery authority with the tools to carry out its tasks. One of several instruments is the legislative proposal on the coordinated recording process. The proposal opens up local solutions to the challenge of meeting the needs and needs of users, taking into account the efficient production of services and the diversity of childcare facilities. I am delighted to record, like others, that several of the major actors in the kindergarten sector are pleased with the agreement. Both the Central Association of Municipalities and the National Association of Private Barnehage states that the agreement provides predictability and that there can now be peace around the kindergartens. This gives me very good hope that we will now be able to take the last boost in order to achieve the goal of a good and reasonable babysitting service for everyone who wants it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1415	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1418	One of the issues on which the Committee did not fully agree was how to deal with the rights of employees in private kindergartens. Governments themselves have trade union backgrounds. My question to the Council of State is: does not the Council of State consider it reasonable that when a private enterprise should have 80 pst? by its operating costs covered by government, are some requirements also set for the treatment of employees in those activities? The government itself has promoted a private school law, where it is precisely stated that there should be equal treatment between the private and public schools supported by that law. I understand that this has a cost side, and that mentioning non-discrimination without going into the math might be a long step to go. However, in the proposal made by the Workers' Party, it is a question of 'ordered employment'. We have seen kindergartens that have refused to enter into collective agreements. It must also be an obligation for us to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1425	I think we all agree that it is very important that all those working in kindergartens get good and orderly pay and work conditions. But at the present time I will only refer to what the Government has said in its own communication, namely: «By means of financial equal treatment, private kindergartens will also be able to offer good pay and pension conditions to their employees. However, the question of the conclusion of collective agreements is a relationship between the social partners.» I think the most important thing we can do to facilitate the possibility of collective agreements is to make the economy of the private kindergartens that don't have collective agreements much better than it is per. today. So that's an economic question. But I do not disagree with the representative, Giske, that this is important. I hope, like some others, that the private kindergartens will take the step we all agree that they should take.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1435	It's a pleasure to be able to make the Minister of Children and Family a budget winner, a little counterproductive, because that might not be what she really wanted. But we are now tumbling very many billions over her department, to the joy of the country's young children's parents. We're very happy about that. I also hope that the Minister for Children and Family Affairs is pleased about that. It has not been a simple process. I'm not going to rip up the process right now. But I have to say that a budget winner like the Minister for Children and Family actually is, a little bit more should have shown enthusiasm for what is actually here, for which it was for a long time a majority, and for which she herself could have had more influence before the final result. But I'll leave it. My question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs is this: In two fields, the first deal we made has already shown results. One is the incentive bonus, which now makes you build more kindergartens. It's now being reinforced, and we're happy about that. The other one is approx. 700 million. as from 1 August this year. It's part of the current year's budget. What is the Minister for Children and Family Affairs going to do if the nursery owners do not reduce the quota in line with what we intend to do with these appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1444	It may well have been that I should have cheered a lot more on the pulpit than I did. I'm terribly happy and trying to say it my way. I don't want to focus on being a budget winner. I think the budget wins are the babies' parents, the parents' parents who'll have the kids in kindergarten. I am very pleased about that. I hope that they are cheering throughout the Norwegian community today. As regards the investment grant and the incentive grant, I agree with the representative that it is extremely important. I'm very happy that we decide that it increases by 150 pst. in relation to a full nursery place. When it comes to the follow-up of the municipalities, as far as both municipal and private kindergartens are concerned, we will provide a clumsy supplement. I want to say it so that I want to see the nursery that won't reduce the parental payment based on the grants that will now give. I've already had meetings with the KS and I'm going to have it in the future. We're going to include it in the consultation system, etc. It's important to follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1453	Wages and salaries is a matter for the parties to the collective bargaining agreement. That's where we agree. That's not what I'm asking the council. What I ask the Council of State is whether she will consider coming back with measures to ensure that they actually get to the negotiating table on pay and working conditions, i.e. the cases where one will not even conclude a collective agreement. We have kindergartens that have been in conflict for months because you don't respect the basic rules. Often these enterprises are not part of any main organisation on the employer's side, so it is impossible to bring it up on a higher level. This is where I believe that the public, with billions of grants on the operating side, should also be able to set some very basic requirements. It would be very nice if at least it could be answered positively from a former trade union leader. So to my second question, we've now created peace and security around kindergarten policy. The only thing that can create new uncertainty is if the money doesn't come. I hope the Council of State can confirm that full funding will be followed up, and that binding agreements with the local authorities are also ensured that they maintain their overall contribution to the kindergarten sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1460	In terms of pay and tariffs, we have not taken a position on this at the moment, and we feel that we cannot oblige private owners of kindergartens to do this either, when we know that they are per. The current economic situation is difficult. To both of the last two questions, I really want to say yes, the government is going to follow up on what this agreement contains of elements.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1467	Now I see that the Prime Minister has come – and that is nice – to celebrate such a big day for the country's granddaughters as this great kindergarten agreement implies. Back to my first question to the Council of State: what will happen now from August 1st is part of the dilemma of kindergarten policy. So we're going to spend 700 million. kr – already granted – that we give to the kindergarten owners. But we have no guarantee that the nursery owners will transfer this to the quota, which is, of course, the Storting. It shows the whole dilemma we have repeatedly encountered from the Storting, namely that there is an explicit willingness to give the nursery parents the benefit, but the gain does not occur because the kindergartens are underfunded, and the municipalities are underfunded. So it's going to be applied to something else. Therefore, the maximum rate is the guarantee that the money will arrive where it is going. My point is that now we won't get a maximum rate from August 1st this year, we'll only get that from May 1st next year. But what is the Council of State going to do if it turns out that both municipal and private kindergartens do not reduce the quota by 500 – 1000 kroner? Is there going to be room for a reduction in the appropriations already granted by the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1477	I agree with the representative of Djupedal that this has so far been difficult for all of us, because there have been quite large government transfers to the municipalities, and we have seen that it has not always been followed up to the extent that the majority of people might want to reduce the parental payment. Through the means we have today, through a consultation system with the municipalities, we can try to make this as binding as possible. In addition, the agreement also provides for the further government grant to be earmarked, both in terms of new places and in terms of continuing the state grant to the kindergartens we have per year. today. It will in itself mean that the parental payment will go down. And I'm pretty sure it will do to a greater extent in the future than what has been the case now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1484	When we carried out the older reform, a binding agreement was made between the state and the municipality. To ensure that the municipalities maintain their contribution and do not reduce what is now out in the municipalities, we wonder whether the council will enter into such a binding agreement with the municipalities. KS is in favour of such an agreement, and this is a major reform with many state resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1489	Through the consultation mechanism, we can also make agreements with the municipal sector, and the consultation arrangements are primarily the responsibility of the municipal and regional ministers, but we other state councils are also involved in our areas. And it's clear that getting KS into a perfectly clear and binding agreement can be a way to go. So that's what I'm taking with me when we're going to work on how we're going to get the municipalities to use the funds we're now transferring from the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1494	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 60. [[See page 3290]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1509	Then we would be ready to go to voting on the matter no. 1 to 60 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1516	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Bendiks H. Arnesen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, on proposal No. 3, by Bendiks H. Arnesen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 4, by Åsa Elvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 5, by Åsa Elvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, and proposal No. 6, from Steinar Bastisen on behalf of the Coastal Party. Mr Bastesen has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1537	We have a little conflict in the group, so we need an explanation of vote! No, I have been asked to withdraw the proposal. [[Laughter]] But my proposal goes on to deal with this matter. The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party's proposal are on how to proceed after the Stortinget treatment. I do not want the matter to be dealt with now, so there is a contradiction between the two proposals. But I'm happy if the Labour Party wants to vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1542	It is then first voted on proposal No. 6 from the Coastal Party. The proposal has been submitted after the deadline, but the President nevertheless proposes that we vote on the proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The proposal reads as follows: «Consolidation of case 1 Inst. S. No 271 The Structural Communication is deferred until an impact assessment of what coastal fishing means for coastal settlement has been submitted.’» [[2002-2003]] The President understands that the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Labour Party support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1561	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose how one can phase out the factory jet fleet during a ten-year period.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1576	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for new measures to be taken by the Government to help improve the economic and socio-economic profitability of fisheries. Such measures may include the extension of the aggregate quota model, regional quota management, new conditions for the granting of SND support stimulating profitable operation on the basis of the resource base, as well as the opening for the transfer of allowances from the sea fishing fleet to the coastal fleet.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1591	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The right to exploit the combined allowances is limited to 10 years’.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1606	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «Member States shall contribute to the Structural Fund as much as it contributes to it.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government to establish a regional model for the management of fisheries resources, including regional quota funds/quota banks.It also asks for the societal impact of implementing structural measures for coastal fishing fleets to be assessed. Such investigations must be carried out before structural measures can be implemented.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1677	10 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from May Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 2, by May Hansen on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left 3, from May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 5, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Progress Party, 6-11, from May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 4 is as far as the President has registered, not recorded. Proposal No. 6 has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government come back with a proposal for the implementation of a child and youth accounts in all public administrations in all policy areas.’.» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any substantive consideration. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposals Nos. 7-11, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with a proposal for a child and child-rearing law.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals for measures to stimulate Norwegian municipalities to create their own contact person/counterperson for children and young people.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider the establishment of a Youth Council to have representatives of the cross-ministerial group.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds; ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with a proposal for a general ban on advertising aimed at children.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the 2004 budget with funding to increase the allocation of KSOs in order to ensure the further development of training and guidance for health professionals and to promote new important measures in the field of sexual education, inter alia. in order to achieve new target groups.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1742	Proposal No. 5, from the Advance Party, taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with a case concerning the establishment of a growth monitoring body.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1757	Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to take the initiative in cooperating with the Internet industry with a view to introducing a legislation that helps to combat the spread of child pornography.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1772	Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider setting up a cross-ministerial group responsible for the overall coordination of policies relating to children and young people.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1787	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party are being taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for comprehensive and concrete action to be taken against poverty in families with children’.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1849	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1864	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 12 June 2003: ‘The budget asks the Government to ensure that an annual share of up to 1,0 pst is set aside. of the surplus of gambling for research, information, prevention and information activities in relation to gambling addiction.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1882	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 12 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to design the lottery rules in such a way as to give the humanitarian and societal purposes equivalent opportunities to operate.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1900	There is a vote on the proposal by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 12 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate the consequences and ethical aspects of the marketing of gambling in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1919	There is a vote on the proposal by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 12 June 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate the possibility of banning gambling on the Internet.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1937	There is a vote on the proposal by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 12 June 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate the possibility of prohibiting games per game. mobile phone.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1955	There is a vote on the proposal by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 12 June 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to impose a maximum pay limit on slot machines of NOK 300.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1973	There is a vote on the proposal by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 12 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government that slot machines be fitted with coin inlays only, in order to play with notes, if applicable. credit cards are not possible.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e1991	There is a vote on the proposal by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 12 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that a maximum of 5000 slot machines are deployed in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2009	There is a vote on the proposal by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 12 June 2003: ‘The Government asked the Government to address the need for a general rule on the age limit for individual, possibly all types of gambling.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2028	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 12 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up regulations ensuring local teams and associations allocations of the tipping surplus to compensate for the loss of revenue from today’s slot machines.’ All lots except the Advance Party are originally behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2036	With the adoption of the Act on the exclusive right of Norwegian Tipping, I would recommend that our members vote in favour of this proposal. It would be pointless to vote against when looking at previous proposals we have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2065	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Heidi Grande Røys, on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, transmitted from the meeting of the Odelsting on 3 June 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to find out whether the person required to report on possible money laundering should be entitled to refuse to testify in any legal action.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2083	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Heidi Grande Røys, on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, transmitted from the meeting of the Odelsting on 3 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to make appropriate proposals on the possibility of sharing the profits of confiscated profits from criminal activities with other countries.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2101	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Heidi Grande Røys, on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, transmitted from the meeting of the Odelsting on 3 June 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate measures that may motivate the police to give higher priority to money laundering than at present, where one of the solutions may be that the costs of legal prosecution of money laundering are compensated for in the amount withheld in relation to such cases and that the remainder may be covered by a central unit.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2120	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Heidi Grande Røys, on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, transmitted from the meeting of the Odelsting on 3 June 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to make appropriate proposals on the obligation to register gambling.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2138	A vote is taken on the proposal by Mr Heidi Grande Røys, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 3 June 2003: ‘The cancellation asks the Government to assess the possibility of introducing a maximum amount of allowed cash payment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2156	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 3 June 2003: ‘The decision requests the Government to make appropriate proposals by the end of 2003 to assimilate written and electronic identification.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2172	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party for the Advancement Party, submitted by Mr Siv Jensen from the meeting held on 3 June 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to bring an action for amendments to Section 2 of the Central Bank Act in order to abolish the obligation to provide services.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2190	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Heikki Holmås, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, and the Central Party, on behalf of the meeting of Mr Odelstinget, on 4 June 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that child supplements are provided in addition to the introduction benefit, as in the case of day-to-day unemployment benefits.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2208	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 4 June 2003: ‘The Government is asked by the Danish model to draw up a manual for newly arrived refugees and immigrants with an introduction to the basic norms, values and institutions of the Norwegian society.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2226	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 4 June 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit legislative amendments so that permanent residence permits are granted only after 7 years of legal residence in the country. Persons who have made a significant effort to integrate may, upon application, be allowed permanent residence after 5 years of legal residence.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2244	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 4 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to introduce requirements before granting a permanent residence permit, such as: having been in work for at least three of the last five years, showing a strong link with the Norwegian community, not having received public support for the last three years, having passed Norwegian testing, not having committed serious criminal offences or having outstanding liabilities to the public.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2262	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 4 June 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for amending the law on the requirement to stay for at least 10 years, from the day of the granting of a residence permit for the granting of Norwegian citizenship.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2280	The vote will take place at the meeting on 4 June 2003 by Mr Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit legislative amendments so that persons who have been sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for one year or more may not have Norwegian citizenship.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2298	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 4 June 2003: ‘The government asks the Government to submit legislative amendments to ensure that persons sentenced to an unconditional one-year prison sentence, after an end of their term of office, must start for a further 10 years in order to obtain Norwegian citizenship.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2317	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 4 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to allow applicants for Norwegian citizenship to refer to documented Norwegian knowledge and knowledge of Norwegian culture, social conditions and Norwegian labour standards.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2335	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 4 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit legislative amendments so that persons who have certain types of debt to the public cannot obtain citizenship until such debt has been paid.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2353	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 4 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit legislative amendments so that applicants for Norwegian citizenship have to make promises of allegiance and loyalty to Norway and Norwegian legislation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2371	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 4 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amending the law on the 24-year family reunification limit with spouse.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2389	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 4 June 2003: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals for amending the law on own-dwelling requirements as a precondition for family reunification.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2407	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 4 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amending the law on the introduction of family reunification capacity and deposit.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2425	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 4 June 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit legislative amendments prohibiting the marriage of cousins and cousins.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2443	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 4 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to give family reunification only to spouses and children under the age of 18’.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2461	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 4 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to achieve family reunification in the country with which it has the largest overall connection.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2479	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 4 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish guidelines that the municipality is only obliged to offer the introduction programme under the law of introduction to persons residing under agreement between the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and the Municipality.’ The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are originally behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2499	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 4 June 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to issue an introductory programme for family reunions.’ Here it is the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party that are originally behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2520	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 4 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to reintroduce Norwegian training in asylum recipients for asylum seekers who are not in the category of non-groundless persons.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre are originally behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2540	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 4 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all participants in the introduction programme are entitled to be assessed for the housing support of the Husbank as of 1 September 2003.’» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre are originally behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2557	That is why the proposal has been rejected – as far as it was. Not everyone was there. There were so many people who, for some reason, were not able to vote that maybe we'll take that vote again, if nobody has anything against it. – Then the vote will be resumed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2575	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 4 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide full funding for the introduction of the reform of the law. These costs are incorporated in the State budget for 2004 and subsequent years.» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre are originally behind the proposal. This proposal will also be voted in favour of by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2596	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 4 June 2003: ‘The size asks the Government in the context of the 2004 State Budget to assess the impact of housing support on families with children with both parents on the introduction programme.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre are originally behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2617	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 4 June 2003: ‘The decision requires the Government to review and evaluate the selection mechanism for the 2003 election and to assume that the outcome of the review is adequately promoted for the Grand total.’ The Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left are originally behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2638	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 4 June 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to make an assessment of alternative solutions in respect of the body to be given the power to take a decision on complaints before the election and before the new decision is taken on the appeals with final effect and to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2655	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 4 June 2003: ‘The government is asking for some issues related to local referendums. The investigation shall include both the principle consequences of binding referendums and the effects of a model where a certain number of citizens in a municipality may require a case to be referred to a referendum may be of local democracy.The Government requests the appropriate presentation of the outcome of the investigation.’» The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party are originally behind the proposal. The Progress Party also supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2680	The vote will take place on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, submitted by Mr Knut Storberget on 10 June 2003: ‘The Government asks for review of the law in the areas of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child, Norway recommends to look at, with a view to making the Children’s Convention more visible.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2699	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Inga Marte Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 10 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Storting on the requirements for formal child-care knowledge for professional groups working with children or who need child-care professional competence in their professional activities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2718	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Inga Marte Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 10 June 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to determine the competence to expel and expel foreigners under Chapter 5 of the Foreign Affairs Act should be transferred to the courts.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2737	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 10 June 2003: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up its own criminal order for child pornography, which clearly defines child pornography as not a general pornography but a description of child abuse. The proposal shall be promoted to the Storting as soon as possible, irrespective of the presentation of new criminal law.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2755	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 10 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to address the need for changes in the criminal framework, based on the need to create justice with the EU in the fight against organised crime related to child pornography.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2772	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 10 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to review legislation and practices relating to children with disabilities with a view to making Norway’s obligations visible under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.’ The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are originally behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2793	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Inga Marte Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 10 June 2003: ‘The Government requests the establishment of an International Department of Child Protection.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2812	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Inga Marte Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 10 June 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to assume that the marriage is to be carried out only by notary publicus on the basis of today’s civil marriage.’ [[judgment of the Court of First Instance]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2831	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 10 June 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to promote the necessary legislative proposals so that the loss of the right to drive a motor vehicle is regarded as punishment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2850	During the debate, Mr Valle has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Dietary Scheme for Storing Representatives is liquidated. Parts of the current diet allowance are included in the permanent remuneration of the representatives, as stated. the notes of the Socialist Left Party in Document No. 17 points [[2002-2003]] 4.4.8.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2877	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2921	The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2959	During the debate, Mr Giske put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party. The proposal is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2962	During the debate, the Council of State has expressed an understanding of the intentions of the proposal, but has said that she was not prepared to conclude here and now. So I suggest that this be turned into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e2967	The proposal from the Workers' Party has been proposed as a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government make proposals to ensure the orderly employment of employees of private kindergartens receiving public support.’;» The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It is considered biphasic.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e3086	No. 290 and Nos 291 it is proposed that the decision be taken immediately, cf. Paragraph 28(d) of the Rules of Procedure, having regard to the fact that when these proposals were adopted by the Stortinget in plenary, it was, as has been stated, the wrong basis for voting because of errors in the replacement. Consequently, the decisions taken by the proposals will not be in accordance with the real majority of the Grand Duchy and the composition of the Grand Duchy by the voters. Paragraph 47 of the Stortingen Rules of Procedure provides: ‘When a case is finally settled, it may not be brought back, or reopened in the same collection. However, if it is necessary, or if the Government promotes a proposal or notification within the same area of the Grand Duchy, the matter may be decided to do so, provided that the matter is again dealt with by the Committee.’ Paragraph 64 of the Stortingen Rules of Procedure provides: ‘In exceptional cases, the Grand total may decide to put certain provisions of the Rules of Procedure into effect. Such a decision requires a two-thirds majority, unless the proposal is tabled by the President. In that case it shall be decided by a general majority.’.» In this case, the President considers that a new treatment must be said to be ‘necessary’ because the previous decisions do not comply with the real majority of the Stortinget. In the President's view, the Committee's new consideration of these two proposals is clearly unnecessary. The President therefore proposes that the Stortinget decide to derogate from the provision on new committee proceedings in this case, which, in the President's view, is the basis of Section 64 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e3101	Let me first refer to the President's own record of §47. It does not read there: provided that the matter is again dealt with in committee unless deemed unnecessary by the President. It is not open for such a permit. But it is quite right, as the President says, that the Rules of Procedure can be waived by a simple majority when proposals have been made by the President. That is why I have only one question to the President whether he thinks it is such a specific case, and whether it is absolutely clear that the result of voting that emerged some time ago was contrary to the actual position of the Storting – these are matters that were strongly debated, and we never have any guarantee, unless one has carefully gone through the vote result and asked each one who has voted, whether they have voted for their own opinion, or whether they have voted incorrectly. Sometimes decisions are taken that are surprising to most people, without itself providing the basis for a new vote in the same meeting, or a new examination of the case in the same session. If I don't remember completely wrong, I have, among other things, The progress party has been refused to answer questions that have been settled earlier in the same session. Even when we have thought that we have put the proposal differently from what was before, it has been interpreted as the same thing, and we have been rejected in attempts to reverse decisions. We will vote against using Section 64 in these two cases. We will vote in favour of these being dealt with in accordance with the third paragraph of Section 28 of the Rules of Procedure (e), i.e. both cases are rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e3110	Before the President gives the floor, the President will of course answer the question asked by Mr. Carl I. Hagen. It is quite obvious that it is not up to the President to understand whether a case should be sent to a committee or not. However, the President has the opportunity to propose to the Stortinget that the Rules of Procedure be repealed, and that is the opportunity the President has. Furthermore, the President has no personal interest in the matter being raised to a new vote, which the vote result will be able to prove from the end. Otherwise, of course, the President has not asked each of them to vote right or wrong. I have dealt with the signals that have come from the parties participating in the normal vote here in the Chamber, and then the President's conclusion is that the decision is clearly contrary to the majority that the people have decided through elections. That is why the President proposes what he proposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e3117	On behalf of the government parties, I would just like to stress that we support the President's interpretation of this, because there is no doubt that unfortunately there was a dividend error in the Storting. It has also been confirmed. In addition to that, we have to have a system in Stortinget that makes not all representatives necessarily have to be here at the same time. We have an exchange system which is not covered by the Rules of Procedure. But respect for the replacement system is absolutely essential for this house to be able to work sensibly. It also means that no matter what party it is, we all have to respect the exchange system. If it were to be the case that mistakes have been made along the way, I take it of course that the parties that have done wrong – whether it should be in another situation on the right – correct the mistakes that have been made, in respect of the people who have chosen us, and for the composition of the Storting. We fully support the President's approach to this, because it will express what the Greatness should have meant and mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e3126	We fully share the President's application of Paragraph 64 in this case. At our discretion, it is obvious that there has been an error in replacement which means that the result has been different than it should have been. We believe that the procedure specified by the President is quite correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e3131	I just want to allow myself to bring a case information. We discussed a Document No. Eight proposals in the Judicial Committee, tabled by the Progress Party, which were rejected. Then it was re-enacted with almost the same wording. There was a proposal, among other things: by Mr Karin S. Woldseth on proof of good conduct. We discussed this proposal despite the fact that we had received confirmation that we could reject it. So this was a proposal from the Progress Party. So here I think you're not consistent.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e3138	Several have not asked for the floor for the President's proposal to wind up this part of the meeting. In order for everyone to vote on what is important to be voted on, the President proposes that we first put the President's proposal to derogate from the Rules of Procedure's provision that a matter should be referred to the Committee on Petitions, during voting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President therefore proposes that the provisions of Section 47 of the Rules of Procedure on the new committee procedure be waived for these two proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e3158	The President then proposes that the Minutes be read as follows: 290 and 291 shall be brought to the attention of the Court without delay. Paragraph 28(d) of the Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e3170	I think this is a misunderstanding – I made a concrete proposal to take it under the third paragraph of Section 28(e).
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e3177	Yeah, that's right. But the president thought that if we first voted on what was the president's proposal, and the representative Carl I. Hagen voted against, it was quite obvious that it was the president's proposal that was adopted, and then we abstained from voting more. Can it be all right?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e3180	Let's see. Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e3187	Or it can be votered or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e3190	No, it's okay!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e3197	Once again, the President's proposal that the cases be brought to an immediate decision shall be rejected. Paragraph 28(d) of the Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e3209	The President's proposal has thus been adopted, and it should be unnecessary to bring up Carl I. Hagen's proposal. It is then voted on the two proposals in question. The proposal in Minutes No. 290, Document No 8:125 for 2002-2003, reads: ‘Entry Take-off. S. No 245 of the Judicial Committee on Several Effective Measures to Prevent Child Abduction and to Facilitate the Return of the Child to the Emerging Caregiver.’;» [[2002-2003]] [[Decision No 482 on 10 June 2003]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e3219	I want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-2.ana.ud144e3233	Then we have decided that the previous decision has been repealed. We are so ready for voting in Minutes No. 291. The proposal in Document No. 8:126 reads: ‘The Government is asked to prohibit, as soon as possible, wolf hybrids, American Stapfordshire terriers and mixtures in which these breeds are included.’
