ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e28	The representative of May Hansen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e31	On behalf of the big business representatives Karin Andersen, Magnar Lund Bergo and myself, I would like to propose to evaluate and adjust the unintended outcome of the new rules on contributions that will enter into force from October 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e36	The representative of John I. Alvheim will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e39	On behalf of the representatives Harald T. Nesvik, Øystein Hedstrøm and myself, I propose to ask the Government by the end of 2003 for proposals to amend VAT legislation so that no VAT is required on remuneration for the rental of equipment and services provided between self-employed dental practitioners in the same practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e44	The representative Knut Storberget will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e47	On behalf of Eirin Faldet, Karita Bekkemel Orheim and myself, I would like to propose more effective measures to prevent child abduction and make it easier to bring the child back to the caregiver.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e52	The representative of Thore A. Nistad will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e55	On behalf of the representatives of Kenneth Svendsen, Per Roar Bredvold, Christopher Stensaker and myself, I propose the development of a continuous four-field E6 motorway from Oslo to Trondheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e61	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e84	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Council of State Election City of Haugland Council of State Kristin Clemet Council of State Kristin Krohn Devold The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We will then start with the first main questions, from the representative Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e103	I have a question for the Minister of Education. Norwegian school is going in the wrong direction. Norwegian students can't count. One of the four high school students cancels in mathematics. Now, when we measure the knowledge of student coal that has been trained after Reform 97, the iron percentage is explosive, and at the last measurement, i.e., the 2002 exam, almost 27 pst. This is frighteningly bad, and it is a warning about real level lowering in real science. The government is responsible for today's school. With this result, the Government also cancels the exam. Major unacceptable deviations in learning outcomes must result in significant and clear corrective measures — immediate action. What will the Council of State do in addition to the talk of concern and the programme review? What immediate action will the Council of State take to improve the knowledge of mathematics in Norwegian students?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e114	I must say that one of the things that pleased me when I got up today was to read the editorials in some of the newspapers I read on the morning quiz. Finally, I felt that it had become a certain understanding that Norway unfortunately does not have an equality school or a school that provides an equivalent and good training offer to everyone. In many ways, we have a different school. There are great differences between girls and boys, between strong and weak, between classes, between schools, we have social segregation in cities, and we do not contribute to the social mobility that the school should contribute to. I've felt for a year and a half that when we've been talking about this, we've only met on a wall of rhetoric about the college, while now it finally seems to be a certain understanding that we have a difference problem in Norwegian school. I think we've started a pretty comprehensive program to do something about it, and let me mention some elements. Firstly, we have put a lot more emphasis on skills development, both in relation to new and existing teachers. Secondly, we are doing quite radical things in strengthening the room for action of the school owners and of the schools. We have taken decisions to transfer the negotiating responsibility, and soon there will be proposals for the Storting, among others. amending the 2+2 model in secondary and amending the classification rules. We have provided for much greater transparency in school and for user involvement and user transparency, and, not least, the Stortingen have agreed to develop a national quality assessment system, which can provide us with knowledge of quality and the basis for improvement. Just as far as mathematics is concerned, I also believe that we have taken a grip that has been received very positively. We have put forward a comprehensive plan to strengthen the real subjects from kindergarten to research. It is a five-year plan, and we are taking action at all levels and in and on behalf of all groups — yes, also in relation to society. The immediate results of such measures cannot be expected. Contributing to improving quality in school is a very long-term work, where it takes a long time to get results, but I definitely believe that we have started an important work. And then we also wait for the quality committee to be set, which is due in June.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e129	I hope that the Council of State has also read the head of the Evening Post with the title «When the school goes in the wrong direction». When it fails in high school, it's a signal that something is fundamentally wrong in primary school too. Will the Council of State change the curricula so that there will be more time for teaching to ensure basic math understanding by primary school students? In my opinion, through recommendations and regulatory options of the specialist council, there is a room for action for immediate action. What's our concern is that we now get so much talk -- far in parallel with the physical decay in school -- that everything should get better just for a little while, that today's students leave school without getting a better learning result. That would be a pity, because students in Norwegian school can do much better than what is presented with Norwegian curricula today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e138	It's not my impression that the main criticism against me is that I'm talking a lot and not doing anything, but now let it go! In terms of curriculums and curricula, we are in that situation – we have changed somewhat in the CRL field – that we have reduced a sample, in other words, the previous government, with a slightly extended and amended mandate from our government, which we refer to as the Quality Committee. They're putting forward a position at the beginning of June, and there's a certain logic in that we're going to have to change curriculums and curricula after that. We have already started the preparatory work, but of course we have to await the sample and have the normal consultation processes on it. Some of the scientific plans that are most strongly criticised refer to mathematics. It has been claimed – and I think it is right – that they have been overread and too busy in methods and activities rather than dealing with goals, a limited number of objectives and giving some greater freedom of method to teachers. We have one of the country's most powerful mathematics experts in the Quality Committee. She also leads the National Center for Mathematics in Education, which we have established at NTNU, and I think we'll see that there are changes in mathematics, and it can come relatively quickly as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e149	There will be two follow-up questions – first Karita Bekkelem Orheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e152	I want to ask a follow-up question. All of the parties are concerned that we're going to have a high-quality school. And if that's how we don't get out well enough, among other things. in mathematics and reading skills, there is one thing that all the games in the Storting are concerned about. But what's obvious is that this government thinks it's the competition that's going to promote more and better education in the schools. We have seen Secretary of State Bergesen say to the newspaper Education that the good school cannot be adopted by political decisions. Victor D. Norman has clearly stated that the school can cope with far fewer teachers than we have today. Then is my short question to the Council of State: is it such that the Council of State really believes that competition itself will improve the Norwegian school, and that this has no connection whatsoever with the resources that we are allocated to the Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e161	When Karita Bekkemelm Orheim says that all the parties are concerned about quality in school, it sounds like a spell to me. Because there is actually no one before, and especially not the Workers' Party, who has been busy getting knowledge of quality. A first prerequisite to be able to do something about quality is to acquire knowledge about what quality is both in terms of learning outcomes, the learning environment, etc., and then to acquire knowledge about what leads to better quality. That kind of information was practically absent in the department when I got in there. Now we know a lot about quality, and we know a lot more about what's going on to do to improve quality. I don't know what the representative is looking for when she says "competition." If there is competition between schools, it is virtually non-existent in Norway. We almost don't have free choice of school in primary school. There are almost no municipalities that have implemented it, and in any case there is a strong constraint that the law says you have the right to go to your secondary school, and so it's still going to be as long as I sit in that chair. So to resources. It's important, of course. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e173	Ursula Evje – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e176	Now, the results we see now are simply what has come after a reform that has obviously failed. Changing the subject plan within this will hardly solve a problem. Today, the school has a responsibility to provide the individual with the training he needs, and it is such that the parents rely on the school to do so. What will the Council of State do to clarify the school's own responsibility for providing adapted training, including within the plan already in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e183	I believe that the schools are very much aware that the ideal is adapted to training for all students – absolutely everyone, strong and weak, girls and boys, minority-speaking and those who belong to the majority. I don't think the problem is that we're not aware of the ideal, but it's hard to get it done. There may be several reasons why it's hard to do. I think one of the reasons might be a lack of formal competence among teachers and managers in school. We know that not everyone has received the training and the training that they should be entitled to and that is needed. We're trying to do something about that. But I also believe that international studies certainly indicate that the school can be more self-governed, have a greater room for action in order to accommodate working days and forms of education in a way that better hits the individual student. The trials carried out in Norwegian schools, with exceptions from the current law, regulations and contract work, show that both teachers, students, managers, parents – all – believe that they are doing well to pursue the ideal of adapted training in a better way, independently, in fact, of the resource framework conditions they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e192	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e195	I also have a question for the Minister of Education. First to quality. The working party is very concerned with quality in school. That's why we started many of the international quality surveys and surveys that now provide the basis for measuring quality in school, and that's very good. But we also recognise that quality requires increased resources for the school. And now when we're told that there are more students in the classes, that there are many places that go beyond the maximum limits, that special education is cut, that the offer for disadvantaged students is cut, and that teachers are said, then we recognize that quality is impaired by it, because you simply don't bet enough at school in many municipalities. This is an alert cut in the sense that we have historically low stakes on the local economy. Therefore, there will be less money for the school and thus less money to bet on quality, among other things. to invest in teaching resources, special education, where necessary. My question to the Council of State is whether she acknowledges that the municipal structure that the Government had was too tight to carry out a bet at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e206	There is no doubt that the local economy is difficult in many municipalities, that many municipalities need to streamline and tighten up, and that it will affect all sectors. Now I don't think you're going to take all of the'studies' that you're being presented to in the media, too good fish. They're not always to trust. This is why the Government has said that, in the context of presenting the revised national budget and the municipal budget, we will also present a separate report on the school economy in order to try to elucidate the resource situation at school and how different funding mechanisms work for the school. As far as we know the numbers today, it's actually so that Norwegian municipalities average use 70 pst. more than they have to comply with the quantifiable requirements of the law. We don't find any municipalities that are below the minimum of the law, but we find a twentieth of the municipalities that are down to the minimum. Among other things, I have aired the question of whether we should not carry out targeted supervision of those schools/municipalities that use down to the minimum. We don't know if that means that they're bad schools, but at least it can give a certain amount of security that the schools are good enough. We know from many studies that there is no automatic link between resources and quality. When you have to cut, however, I think that the feeling of experienced quality will be negative. We don't want to reduce resource use in school. If we're going to do something about it, it's partly about what you're adding to the municipality, and not least about the municipality's operating space. I noticed with great interest that, after their national meeting, the head of the Senter Party was just as excited about the local self-government as the SV national meeting was. She said that municipalities could save billions of dollars on reduced detail management from Stortinget. I think that's right. I think that's a challenge for this big thing. I will make my contribution and make suggestions before Easter to reduce the detailed management of schools, so that schools can make more efficient use of resources, not primarily for resource use, but for tailored training objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e217	There is no one who is opposed to spending money in a better way, driving the public sector more efficiently, renewing the public sector. The working party is at least a strong and warm follower of it. But we are not so naive that we believe that it alone can ensure good enough quality of public services, even on the school offer. That is why we are in favour of both the renewal and efficiency of the public sector and, at the same time, of providing the necessary money. That's the last point that's missing, because you've chosen to give more money to private schools and chose to spend $12 billion on treasury bills. As a result, there has been a historically little investment in the municipalities. It means cut in a lot of municipalities. It's going to go down on the quality. That's what we now see the results of, and what we think is a main problem. Telling students in a class that loses a teacher, or telling students in a class where the number of students increases, that it doesn't go beyond quality, I think it's almost impossible. The question is, is there going to be more money for school?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e222	I agree that when it repeats and repeats that it necessarily has to go beyond quality, it's hard to explain that it doesn't necessarily do it. It doesn't necessarily go beyond quality. I recognize that it can go beyond the sense of quality. It's not positive to have to cut. But I think if you're going to do something about the local economy, it's not just to give more money. It also has some other effects, with which the representative Stoltenberg is well known. It's true that in this room, we can do nothing to defuse the municipalities in such a way that we undermine local democracy and the local space of action. The school is particularly affected by the fact that we run a lot of detail, because the school has been the most loyal sector to our ideals and our celebrations in local democracy, because the school lives on free income. I am a warm supporter of local self-government, local democracy, its ability to prioritize itself, choose for myself. I want to make it right. If we follow up the national meeting of the Central Party and the SV National Meeting, this will be a good thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e229	There will be three follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e232	I fully agree with the Minister of Education that there should be increased local space for action, but there will be no local space for action without resources. You should not try to create the impression that you can create local space for action without at the same time providing sufficient resources. There must be a Right problem in relation to the promises made to the Right before the elections, that you should not just have the sense of quality, but that you should actually get a better school, that you should get more resources for the school. Most people today feel that there is no more resources for the school, on the contrary. Local authorities are still struggling — more than ever — with resource problems. I also believe that the parents feel that there is no much more resources to lean on in relation to the Norwegian school. The council said in a previous answer that we have differences in Norwegian school today. Then I have to ask the Council of State: is it so that she believes that the differences we have in Norwegian school are less marked by the tight local economy that this government has now raised?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e239	I did not personally participate in the election campaign last time, but I have studied the material that was available. I don't think my party was most concerned about promising more resources. I think we had a much more sophisticated message about quality in school. I hear that the representative Arnstad is talking about feeling and experiencing things. I agree. You can feel and experience things, but when you are responsible for education policy, you also have to stick to facts. That is why, in the context of the revised and the municipal proposal, we will also present a major report on the school economy, which I hope will provide the basis for an informed and open debate. It's not that there's going to be an increase in the quality of less resources. However, it is not actually possible to demonstrate that the quality has a direct link between resource use around municipalities or schools. That doesn't mean we want it to be used less resources, but that means we have to use resources efficiently, no matter how large they are. I guess it's not allowed to return questions, but for me, it might be very interesting to know what Åslaug Haga meant that municipalities could save billions of dollars if you reduced the detailed management of the municipalities. It must be an attractive option for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e251	If you don't return questions, you can stay within time! Rolf Rekvam – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e256	I agree with the Council of State that if we follow up the SV national meeting in the future, this will go well! The media are now drawing a picture of a situation in the school where we have dramatic cuts, at the latest in Dagsrevyen yesterday. In the evening of last night, we were told that the Oslo School must be cut dramatically. Clearly, this will have consequences for quality in school in the long run. We must all agree on that. We see that it's now starting to go beyond the divisional hours, it's going to go beyond the mother tongue education, etc. That the Council of State does not take this completely inward, is actually quite serious. I wish she took it stronger inwards. Is this a crazy policy on the part of the Government – I think it’s important to know – to get a cut in school, in the education sector, in the future, or is this what happens despite what the Government wants? Will the government have these cuts we see now? Does the government want to cut down on the mother tongue education? Do they want fewer hours? Do they want fewer sharing hours, etc? Is this something that happens despite what the Government stands for? I think it's important to know that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e263	First of all, I think you have to take some of the media deposits with a little pinch of salt. What was presented at the Dagsrevyen yesterday, which was also presented in the evening evening newspaper last night, is the result of a survey conducted by the Education Association by asking their trustees where it will be cut. What more they've asked, I don't know. These studies — if they can be called surveys — carry out the Education Association every year, and they make mistakes every year. They're always too pessimistic. This does not mean that I do not recognise that the situation in many municipalities is tight, and that it also affects the education sector in some places. It's not a crazy or wanted policy to cut when it comes to school. But what's going on is that we're going to have a national economy that's connected and that doesn't lead to pressure on interest rates, prices and competitiveness, etc. We want a policy towards the municipalities that is such that the municipalities themselves are given greater access to the resources they have at their disposal. There is then a link not only with the decisions taken by the Government but also with the decisions taken in this Chamber on reforms that are not fully financed and on detailed governance by the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e270	Vidar Bjørnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e273	It's obvious that the Right is in the head office of the Bondevik government in terms of school policy, and I recognize the old arguments about the Right School, exam, grades and competition. I think it's a shame that we have a school council that doesn't fight for money for the Norwegian school, for the public community school. I think it is a pity that we have a Council of States that is primarily concerned with undermining the confidence of the public community by constantly stressing what is negative. I think all of this has a connection with the desire of this government to privatize the primary school. If the Clemet Council gets what she wants, it will now be free to set up private schools with full public funding. In my opinion, we have a good Norwegian school, which can be improved. I would like to hear about the State Council here and now briefly can say something good and positive about the public Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e284	This, I think, was actually a pretty serious question, which contained quite serious accusations against me about my intentions and motives, which I believe the representative who asked the question, knows it is not true. I'm very concerned about improving public school. That's over 98 pst. by the students leaving. But what we must note is that that school is not as good as what we thought it was. The quality is not as high as we thought, and the differences are much larger than we thought. So it turns out that there's no contradiction between the sides of similarity that we have and the quality that we want. The higher-quality countries in terms of learning outcomes also have greater equality between girls and boys, between strong and weak pupils, and perhaps between minority and majority representatives. We know that we don't have a perfect learning environment. About 100,000 students in school are in possession of bullying all the time. We also know that there are many school buildings that are not good enough. I have launched a series of measures to try to improve this, but the first condition for triggering measures is to know which measures work. Then you have to have knowledge of quality and know what leads to improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e293	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e296	I have a question for the Minister of Defence. The war in Afghanistan started about one and a half years ago, and most of this time Norway has participated with various military contributions, including in the field of drugs. Special forces, miners, F-16 aircraft and now again with special forces. In many media it is now constantly coming up with information that the U.S.-paid warlords are back in their old pre-war positions, that President Karzai only controls Kabul City, and now finally that the Taliban is reorganized and increasingly involved in fighting. Could the Minister of Defence say something about recent developments in Afghanistan, whether the Government has plans for further military contributions, and what time horizons she sees before the goal of the war is reached?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e305	Yes, it is true that Norway has always been active in Afghanistan since NATO declared Article 5. We have made a considerable effort in relation to the size of our country, but my clear impression is that this has been a very valuable effort. It was not least underlined when President Karzai was visiting Norway in December and praised the combination Norway had with both humanitarian aid and military presence. This has led him to have opportunities to drive the development of democracy. The girls are back at school, and there is clearly much greater security in the country than it was. However, it is not that all problems have been solved, and here the representative Bjørklund points to important problems in the future as well. It is a tradition in Afghanistan with various warlords fighting around the regions of the country. The ISAF force, the UN mandated international force, is primarily present in Kabul. This means that the international community is also facing long-term challenges throughout the country. However, the threat situation to Norwegian forces and allied contributions has not increased due, for example, to: the war in Iraq. It is regular, and it has always been, attempts to attack the coalition forces, but we still consider the threat situation to Norwegian personnel to be moderate and constant. As for the plans ahead, I will not try to set an end date for allied presence in Afghanistan. But what I want to say is that the Norwegian contributions are evolving towards more and more civil-military cooperation, as indicated by our CIMIC contribution to ISAF, and that the military heavy presence can hopefully be escalated.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e316	I thank you for your answer and note that it is difficult for the Council of States to be particularly specific on what kind of time perspectives this is about before this war, which we are in, can end. I have a follow-up question. Three times Norwegian F-16 aircraft have dropped bombs in Afghanistan. The public in Norway knows little about what this has caused by damage and death, and whether it has given some results in the military. Will we get any exact information about this, and will there be any report on the extent of the damage that will be published?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e323	The most important thing to say here is that the three cases we've had where we've been using weapons from F-16 planes have been completely in line with the guidelines approved by the Government, to which the Storting has been consulted. It is also right to say that in these cases it is a matter of self-defence situations where we have been called up and asked to assist personnel on the ground, and then it is a matter of course that we set up. Now it is that yesterday was the last day of our participation in the F-16 presence in Afghanistan. The planes are on their way home, and then it's natural that we do the same thing there as we did when we picked up our special forces around July 1st, i.e. take a "lessons learned" summary. I would also like to take the initiative to have a press conference related to the F-16 contribution, as we had at our return around 1 July last year. That doesn't mean that all the information will be provided in detail, because here we also depend on what information the rest of the alliance thinks it is good to publish.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e335	There will be three follow-up questions – first Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e338	The representative Bjørklund and I were among the four who were in Kyrgyzstan a few weeks ago and visited the Norwegian forces and the Norwegian ground crew. I would first like to stress that what we were told to see and hear, at least made me sure that we are facing Norwegian personnel with a very high level of competence and a high level of personal integrity. We also received very detailed and detailed descriptions of the cases where weapons have been used. Then to the follow-up in Afghanistan. I would like to stress what the Council of State said, that civil-military cooperation is important in order to ensure stability in Afghanistan. At the same time, it is easy to forget one country when conflicts arise in another. I would like to ask the Council of State Krohn Devold, as a representative of the Government, to help us achieve a further humanitarian follow-up to the situation in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e345	I just want to start by saying that Marit Nybakk here reminded me of something important, namely to praise the crew that has been down there. Before they went down, it was said in several TV debates by prominent Norwegian people that Norwegian pilots were going to Afghanistan to bomb women and children. The accusations, which were gross and groundless, have been refuting the efforts we've been making down there for six months – and that's all there is to emphasize. Maybe some actually should draw their statements and make an apology to them we sent down. Having said that, I would say that I am as busy as Marit Nybakk in maintaining the pressure on our efforts in Afghanistan. I also think that was one of the important outcomes of President Karzai's visit, namely the emphasis on the fact that the F-16 aircraft in the air, by their very presence, were also a soothing element in relation to the warlords, but that we should not forget the humanitarian follow-up. And of course I will also coordinate that with my colleague, the Minister for Development.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e352	Bjørn Jacobsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e355	The war we're currently at in Afghanistan, at least, is going to end up in something other than the situation that he is today. We should, of course, be particularly concerned about the overlap and transition to civil action. For example, the Soviet army just experienced standing up with only military action and finally had to run away again. We have to remember that even though the local war armies are now on top again, and the money for civil action is not exactly fluttering from the international community, we should look at the time when the overlap and the transition to civil status will come. Does the Minister for Defence see the time when civil action should be greater and more important than military action in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e360	I think it's very difficult to speculate on a special date when someone gets it replaced as the representative Jacobsen wants. But I know that SV, along with the Government, has been concerned about the emphasis of the ISAF forces. SV has supported it, as opposed to the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation, because ISAF has had this clear UN mandate and has been put together in a different way. Here we have a common concern about the future of the ISAF forces. This is also one of the most important issues on the international agenda, that we need to ensure that we do not get to fill the ISAF forces with all the international activity currently going on. Here, I think it is important that both the UN, NATO and other actors discuss how to ensure that ISAF has a sufficiently strong presence in the future. Then, of course, we also have to make sure that the donor country group that is established for Afghanistan does what it has committed itself to, because the numbers are large. But I can agree with Jacobsen that we have a bit to go about realising the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e365	Per Ove Wide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e368	The Norwegian F-16 participation in Afghanistan is no one in doubt, it has only been excellent. Now these planes are on their way home, or they're already home. They have operated with Danish and Dutch F-16 aircraft on missions down there. The Danish and Dutch planes must remain there and operate. The Norwegians are going home. Who is going to fill the hole after the Norwegian planes, which is obviously still needed?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e375	The planning of the strength contribution of the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation to Afghanistan takes place in Tampa. It is happening that all countries have rotations on their strengths. Norway has embarked on a six-month rotational line for all our contributions, including the F-16 strengths. Tampa has assured us that there will be a sufficient and good presence of F-16 forces in Manas even after the Norwegian planes leave home. And you underline: we don't pull out, we go home, just like we intended. Not all other countries have special forces to send down. What has been clearly formulated on the part of Tampa is that the Norwegian special forces are also very much in demand. The fact that Norway replaces the F-16 contribution with special forces is entirely in line with the rotation we've had all along. After six months, we'll switch over and go home. It's, not least, predictability for them at home, the family and the children of those down there. This predictability is important to take care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e380	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e383	I'll have to ask the Minister of Education a question. In previous answers today, we heard that the school council said that the Workers' Party made serious claims when they asked questions about school policy. State Council Clement said very clearly in his reply that the problems in the Norwegian school were about the ‘feeling’ of quality, and that the problems were not real. Then I would like to recommend the school councils to take a tour of School-Norway and talk to those who are now getting a lower school leisure offer, who get a more expensive offer, those who get reduced special services, those who sit in miserable classrooms around in several of our cities, and with all the teachers who say they had managed to give our children a much better schooling day if the resources had been better than they are today. I notice that the school councils are not willing to respond to some of the challenges she is faced with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e391	I think I'm going to argue that I'm probably more around schools in Norway than anyone in this room right now, and it should just be missing, since I'm a school minister. I'm everywhere, and I see good construction, I see bad construction, I see lots of good schools, I see many enthusiastic and good school leaders, I see test schools and other schools. But the representative Bekkelem Orheim doesn't think the buildings have been bad for the last year and a half? I'm very concerned that we're going to do something with them, but they haven't expired in the last six months. To the extent that we have poor school buildings in Norway — which we have, I try to map the extent of it — it is due to decades of neglect. What I'm saying about the resource situation is that it's not positive to cut, and it's doubtful that some municipalities have to cut. I've tried to explain some of the reasons for that, that I think it's essential that we do something about the space of action and respect for local democracy to give municipalities greater freedom of action. But I'm also trying to say, and I haven't seen a thing to refute it, that we can't find any surveys, national or international, that can detect any automatic link between quality and resources, whether we're talking about measurable quality or well-being studies, user studies, and that kind of thing. But if you are subjected to cuts, it can of course feel like a quality cut. I fully recognize that. I don't think that's strange. I also believe that two phenomena can occur at the same time: that we spend a lot of resources at school in total, and that it still experiences and feels like little in each school. Therefore, we must be interested in the use of resources. Many people now criticise and are busy with resource usage. I read it too, and I hear this. But it must be interesting for those who come with and are interested to try to listen to: is there anyone who has any alternative policy on how to improve school quality, whether it be learning outcomes, learning environment, learning motivation or what it is? To a large extent, school policy has now gone through unanimously in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e402	It becomes too simple when the Council of State tries to give a description of what has happened in school buildings for a year and a half now, as if it were about falling down our students' heads. That is, of course, nonsense. The point here is that everyone is concerned that we're going to have a high-quality school, but then it's about that we have to be willing in the future to focus more on building, more on learning, more on quality. We have heard the Council of State today say that one of the problems in the Norwegian school is precisely the detailed management from Stortinget's side. I believe that is a tactical thing on the part of the Council of State, so that she will not be held responsible for the state budget with which her government has come. It is true that there is a decline in public school at point by point, while private schools are favored. I understand that Kristin Clemet doesn't want to go out and defend himself in a municipal election fight, when almost 600,000 of our students go to public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e409	There's more to bet on barley. We have an agreement in this room to pursue a loan arrangement in the case of school buildings, and it pursues the Government. We also keep paying more attention to the local economy. How the municipalities manage the economy they have depends on a lot of things, and I don't think it's Karita Bekkemelm Orheim who will get a glimpse of her view in the municipal sector – and that's all the parties – if she claims that talking about local action space is just a tactical manoeuvre. It is definitely not, it also has a bearing on the liberality of the local economy. But let me just say this: if the situation in school is as dramatic as the opposition is now making it, if the opposition thinks that the cuts are going to be like, among other things, The Education Association claims and some media lookups indicate, I have to say that the alternative municipal budgets presented in this room are completely inadequate. Then they're also a drop in the ocean, if only this is what's needed to improve the quality of school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e416	There will be two follow-up questions – first Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e419	First, I must be allowed to correct the Council of State. It is not right that there has been unanimous support for today's school policy in the United Kingdom. The Knowledge School of the Advance Party is an overall alternative to the Single School, which has shown considerable inequality in resource allocation. There's no inequality between the few students who go to private school and the many who go to public school, but there's inequality in the public school. This option is obvious in order to ensure a more equal distribution of students regardless of the municipality in which they live, and it is direct government funding that the state pays the school money for the students directly to the school where the student chooses to be a student. Is there a solution that this government and this Council of State are now willing to look at, taking into account the great injustice and the great imbalance it is in the resource use of students in Norway, who are actually dependent on the municipality in which they live, and what county do they live in?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e424	I must agree with Mr Sortevik that the Progress Party basically has a different type of school policy, in the sense of a different type of framework for the school, in the sense that in many ways one wants to state the school and have a state funding system. But secondly, the Progress Party is committed to making the best of the system that exists, and has, among other things, have been engaged in transferring negotiating responsibility to the municipalities to use one example. It is not this government's policy to state 4,000 primary schools. I think that would be a bad solution. There are a lot of units, a lot of local differences. There are still some differences in the way resources are used. However, most of the differences in resource use between municipalities are due to different challenges — there are different types of student mass and different challenges and problems in the community. So we're going to try to improve the school's framework in terms of space for action, looking at funding systems, the resource situation and that kind of regulation within a framework funding system. We simply believe in local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e431	Trond Giske – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e434	The council says she's the only one who's concerned about quality. Was that why she cut in that package of $1 billion she inherited from Lilletun and me for quality development in primary school, to spend on these bonus schools? She says she's busy with poor school buildings. Is that why she proposed to halve the package that would help municipalities clean up school buildings? She says she is concerned about increased freedom of action in the municipalities. Was it, therefore, that the current government halved the growth of the local economy? So we saw in the evening post last night that 40 schools in Right-Course Oslo have to cut off their teaching offerings because you have such a tight economy. A principal says that this also affects educational development, because you can no longer afford to drive in new ways – you have to drive in a more old-fashioned way. The Council of State refers to the trials carried out by the Stoltenberg Government. It is assumed that resources will be maintained. Now it's cut. One place is added – it's in the private schools. The 1 1/2 pst. Who goes to private schools, gets 400 million. kr more, while for the 98.5 other percentages have to be cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e441	Now this with the private schools has come up many times. It is not a bet – it is a rule-based arrangement that the Stortinget has established, and any government that had been sitting in the offices had to follow the rules, or then you had to change the rules. I'm going to make proposals to change the funding of private schools, change the funding system. Because it's not ideal, the system we have today, but the system we have makes you have to follow the rules, and the fact that these private schools got more, is related to the fact that it was used more in public schools. However, it is not cut in quality development. However, we have targeted the use of funds in a number of ways, including: we have invested much more in continuing training of teachers. When I entered the department, I was told that these quality development funds were first not used specifically, and second, they were actually not used up. I'll make sure that the funds are used up, because they are used specifically where we need an effort, for example. in the case of continuing training of teachers in Norwegian and mathematics. So when reference is made to media headlines: I'm not surprised about Giske's policy on the basis of media headlines, but the media headline about Oslo School yesterday is amazing, because Oslo Municipality is a municipality where there is growth in the school budgets, as far as I recall, of 250 million. kr, in addition to wage and price increases. Then to deal with a suggestion where the Education Association has checked where it was cut without checking where it was going is a little bad basis for policy-making.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e448	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e451	I have a question for the Minister of Culture. The Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Armed Conflict, the Hague Convention, was adopted in The Hague in May 1954. The Hague Convention entered into force in August 1956. The UNESCO Convention for the Protection of World Cultural and Natural Heritage was adopted in November 1972 by the UNESCO General Conference in Paris and the UNESCO Convention was ratified by Norway on 12 May 1977. Both conventions are binding on Norway. The Hague Convention provides for strong restrictions on the location of defence facilities in the vicinity of cultural memories. The Riksantikvaren, who is responsible for Norway's compliance with the Convention, has opposed the location of the Defence Command at Akershu's fastening. The Riksantikvarn has expressed his primary desire for a different location. How will the Council of State secure Akershu's fastening if the Chief Defence Officer's command is moved there?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e461	This is a question that is not actually on my table, so I suggest that the Council of State that is responsible for the matter be allowed to answer, namely Kristin Krohn Devold.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e466	It's up to the state councils to decide. But time is running out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e469	I have to answer quickly. The Hague Convention applies, of course, to this government. The Hague Convention and all other international conventions of that type are administered by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has carried out an assessment of the site for new buildings at Akershus in relation to the Hague Convention and has concluded that it does not conflict with the Hague Convention. Having said that, I can also add that the current location of the Ministry of Defence is actually more problematic in relation to the Hague Convention than the plot found for new buildings. I would also like to say that the dialogue between the Ministry of Defence and the Riksantikvar is very good. It has taken a great deal of time to plan this newly built project in order to have as close a dialogue as possible with the Riksantik product. For the whole purpose of a location at Akershus is to beat two flies in a taste by both having a new integrated defense department where military management and political management are sitting in the same house, and taking care of the old buildings at Akershus. The Riksantikvaren has agreed with me on one thing in particular, namely that precisely because the defense today is those who use the buildings of Akershus, it will be a far greater threat to the buildings of Akershus that the defense is pulling out than that the defence is there and takes care of the buildings and takes care of the entire Akershus area, as it deserves, with the cultural historical values that lie there. This case itself, to which reference is made, is thoroughly assessed for consistency, and there will be a regulatory plan for the construction project to be launched at a public hearing. We're doing everything we can to make sure that all of the problems that can arise are properly addressed. There is also a background for the Ministry of Defence to decide that the Integrated New Ministry of Defence should move into existing premises at Akershus in order to allow the other case, the new building case, to take the necessary time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e476	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have to say it is a little striking that the Minister of Culture will not go into this matter, as it also concerns relevant cultural memory protection. Having said that, I will also refer to cases in Afghanistan and in the ongoing conflict in Iraq, where cultural memories are located near military installations and where this has consequences. We also know that due to strong wishes from the Ministry of Defence regarding the position of the Defence Command on Akershu's fastening, the Riksantikvaren has taken up a dialogue. We are also aware that there is a good dialogue, and that the defense has reduced its building volume somewhat to satisfy the architectural and material usage of the Riksantik product. How will the Council of State ensure the cultural values of Akershu's fastening by placing military installations?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e483	I'm very pleased with this question. In my past, I have been the Municipal Council for Urban Development in Oslo, and my heart burns very strongly for the cultural historical values we have in this city. I was then characterised by the Progress Party as a pure SV. In this case, I think it might be considered praise. The whole point of taking care of Akershus is that here lies Oslo's roots. Here we have our three defense museums. Here we have the Institute for Defense Studies. We have Skolerenteret, Stabsskole, Defence College, and we have a number of cultural events. All of this we want to bring together, and we want to ensure the maintenance of these amazing buildings, and we do that only if the Defense maintains its presence there. We are very interested in complying with the Hague Convention, and I said instead that the current location is actually more problematic than the new one. So I just hope that everyone who is occupied with these cultural-historical buildings can now begin to engage in all that we can do with the new location, not least increase the visibility of the population of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e490	There will be two follow-up questions – first Per Ove Wide.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e493	Unlike the Council of State, I am not as sure that this newly built at Akershus will be positive for Akershus. On 10 March, I wrote a letter to the Council of State asking for feedback, which I have not yet received, and where I refer to an attached agreement between the State v/ Ministry of Defence and the Municipality of Oslo that says that it is not allowed to reconstruct or make changes at Akershus. It might be interesting to hear if the council has anything to say to it today. If that's right, the Storting has made a wrong decision. Furthermore, the Progress Party believes that co-location at Akershus instead of Huseby is a pointless entrepreneur. It has been pointed out from some teams and not least from the Defence's largest trade union, the Joint Organisation of the Order, that there is a huge gap in the development of Akershus, and that it is not about DKK 1⁄2 billion, but about NOK 11⁄2 billion. Then it would be completely pointless to do something.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e502	I would first like to say that the answer to the question I received from the representative, Width, was sent on fax yesterday back to Width, so there must be somewhere in this house. If you're not going to get a copy of me afterwards. I would also like to thank you for the question that was raised in writing, and now repeated orally, relating to this agreement with the Municipality of Oslo. Here is the reality that there have been a number of deviations from this agreement since it was concluded as a framework agreement in 1967. Therefore, the City Council for Economic and Urban Development in the Municipality of Oslo and the Ministry of Defence agreed in a meeting to clarify the whole issue of the agreement, including whether it should be amended or terminated. Nothing in the contact between the Enterprise and Urban Development Agency and the Ministry of Defence suggests that there are issues related to this agreement that prevent the new building from being realised. So to the numbers, I don't have more speaking time now, but I can just say that it indicates that BFO also needs a little bit more math training.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e511	Leif Lund - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e514	When the Workers' Party and the government parties agreed on the defence policy settlement in the spring session last year, the Integrated Department was one of the areas we agreed on. The Workers' Party was satisfied with that then, and we are pleased that the Council of State now assures the Storting that the costs of the construction do not differ significantly from what it was previously informed about. I expect the State Council to continue to keep Stortinget informed not only about the economic aspects of the Integrated Department, but also about other issues, including employee participation in the reorganisation process and the organisational challenges associated with the major organisational changes that the Defence is currently undergoing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e521	I think Leif Lund here points to something very important. With the enormous dramatic reorganisations the defence goes through, the contact with the trade unions is extremely important, that all processes take place in transparency, and that it is informed. It's clear that going down 5,000 men on the crew and halving the defense team in numbers doesn't happen without pain. The size has decided it. We follow up loyally. But it is not right that the cost framework for the new built cracks. On the contrary, what I replied to the committee last June was that this was within an economic framework of 515 million. NOK 80 pst. safety, i.e. 530 million. 2003-krona. The estimates we have today do not differ significantly from this. But I would like to repeat that it is an estimate, because here we have procedures for quality assurance externally and a number of such issues to be implemented before sending it to the Stortinget for a decision. That's why we move into existing temporary premises. It has almost no costs, and then we get the procedure we need, with regard to the new building, by getting a separate case to Stortingen to the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e529	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e532	I want to ask the minister of the church a question. The Church is important to very many people in our country. We see this when people gather for worship around words and sacrament and for church acts in both joy and sorrow. We are many who want this open and inclusive church, and are happy that many people know a relationship of ownership of their local church. The church meeting last autumn was unusually clear when it spoke of the Church's economy, and underlined the link between the local economy and the Church's economy. About 70 pst. of the Church's budget are municipal funds. I want to draw attention to the church buildings and ask: What long-term strategy does the government have to stop the decay that characterizes many of the country's church buildings?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e541	I have also been told that there is some lack in church buildings around, and sometimes when I read newspapers and hear some comments from here, I have the impression that the churches started to flake in October last year, and that before that everything was just fine. Now a real effort has been made to clarify the amount of money we are talking about when it is necessary to take care of the protective churches we have. The Riksantikvar says there are unpaid tasks here for almost $3 billion, maybe even more. So we have to sit down and think, what do we have to do to get this done? What is sad is that taking care of the churches is actually the responsibility of the municipalities. The local authorities have done so in part, not in good economic times either. So we actually have to sit down and think about what we're going to do to get the municipalities to take that responsibility. The state may also need to consider how to protect certain special churches in order to preserve them. But I want a system where we don't take from the municipalities the responsibility they have to keep their churches in claim. We have to come back with a plane. He's not really real yet, because it's not that long since I got to talk on the table in relation to the size of the manga. Then we're going to have to have a dialogue with the Storting about how we can jointly take care of the church buildings we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e550	The Riksantikvar estimates that 750 churches need about 20 minutes. DKK 3.5 billion. Then we have between 900 and 1,000 more churches, where you estimate a maintenance need of $4 billion to stop the accelerating destruction of these. It's formidable numbers. Nor do I believe that the churches started to flake last year, and I don't want to blame the government in any way, even though the local economy has actually become more difficult in the last two years than it has been in many years. That's not the point. I ask the question, because I guess it takes up the minister of the church: how do you think in the long term that this formidable task can be solved?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e557	I cannot give a concrete answer to that today, because I have just started the work. We haven't discussed it in the government yet. But when we're done with the work, we come back to Stortinget. That we are forced to think in the long term, I am completely in agreement with the representative in. I hope that we can have a dialogue with Stortinget on how we will facilitate the maintenance of these churches. I am, as I said, not finished with the job, and therefore I cannot give the representative a long-term plan today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e564	There will be follow-up questions – Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e567	If the Government chooses to strengthen the Church, both in terms of construction and in terms of staffing, which the municipalities are now forced to do, and which goes beyond the Church locally, the Government must make some choices. Now, their own figures show that those who lit over 350,000 kroner received NOK 6000 in tax bills, while those who charge less and less received a few hundred bills. Then I know that the government is hurting over 20 million. kr that was cut to the General Council. It did the parties that had several billion dollars for the municipalities, where the council would have had more. Will the State Council now give priority to the Community in the future? Will she commit herself to the elderly, to the schools and to the churches, or will she sound about the Right's warning of the extra 14 billion dollars in treasures?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e574	The President seems to have been easy to move away from the main question, but it's relevant anyway, so be good, Councillor Reply Haugland.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e577	Now, I didn't mean to mention these 20 million that Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa helped cut this time, but since she did it herself, it was also a choice for the Center Party: are we going to go in to hold them, because we don't get multiple billions for our community economy? It didn't get the Center Party, and I believe it to the extent that Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa knew they weren't going to get either. So it was a choice the Center Party also did. What I am pleased about the debate we have now had on the church economy is that we have been given an understanding in the whole of the Great Britain that this is important. I also believe that the local economy is important here. For this reason, part of my latest reports have been that we give priority to the local economy. Then we get to the budget that we put forward, where one will see his clear speech. I don't think we should do this, but I think that most people understand the priorities of the Christian People's Party in relation to the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e584	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e587	The signals from industry and the construction industry during the day are very discouraging. There's a growth in unemployment, also in the construction industry. Would it not be reasonable, then, for the Council of State to expedite its assessment of the provision of exceptional State grants for the maintenance of church buildings, not directly to the municipalities, but as a government direct grant scheme for the maintenance of our churches? It would not be natural for this to be taken into account in the government's discussions on the revised national budget, because it is actually now that we have available resources to do maintenance work. The state has, as everyone knows, good money. Then it is better to builders, among others. may also maintain churches in addition to school buildings and others, rather than passively receiving leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e593	Carl I. Hagen's score is pretty clear, and I think the government is going to address some of these issues in the revised national budget, because we're also concerned about unemployment. Each construction industry, if any, should start up, becomes a discussion. The answer comes when the revision is presented. But we're not done by the department yet when it comes to how we're going to deal with the construction industry in relation to our church buildings. I think we need some more time on that. But I expect that what is presented in the revision will show that we want to bet on the construction sector in relation to unemployment, but I can't be any more concrete now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e598	The time for the oral questioning procedure is running out. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e603	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President refers to the corrected overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 10, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State to answer question 19, i.e. at the end of the Questionnaire. Question 15, from the representative of Tor-Arne Stroem to the Minister for Transport, will be taken up by the representative of Bjørgulf Froyn. Question 18, from the representative of Øyvind Korsberg to the Minister for the Environment, falls because the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e629	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e635	I would like to ask the Minister for the Church and Culture the following questions: ‘During the examination of the budget for the autumn of 2002, the Stortinget Ministry asked to contribute to the direct transmission of programmes in the NRK and that the text percentage be 50 pst by 31 December 2005. of all Norwegian-speaking programmes, both pre-produced and direct. Can the Council of State indicate how far this work has come?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e644	As a public broadcaster, it is important that the NRK also offers hearing impairments. NRK texts today on average around 60 pst. of total transmission time. Texting direct entries is difficult and requires advanced technology. For several years, the NRK has worked with SINTEF to develop a technology that can turn to text. I have been informed by the NRK that SINTEF does not seem to be able to deliver a satisfactory system by 2005. The NRK, together with TV 2, has been in discussions with IBM and the company NST at Voss about an alternative system. IBM will not even develop a Norwegian version of its ViaVoice system, because the Norwegian market is so small. NST at Voss, based on IBM's technology, has developed a system for use within defined areas, but it's still not good enough. While waiting for a good enough number of text systems, the NRK has completed a keyboard subtitles system in April. The system will be tested before summer. This may affect hearing loss, but will not be an adequate system for subtitling debates and rapid exchange of words. It says that a comprehensive development effort to achieve a qualitatively sound system for this purpose. We will follow up on this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e657	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I found it positive to record that the Council of State was genuinely committed to the problem. In 2001, the Council of State replied in a reply to me that this was interesting, and that it would follow up. No confirm her some things within the technological area that we actually know, but we also know that, among other things. In England they've come further than it seems that there's room for it here in Norway. So she said it's going to be a test drive before summer. We also know that this will cost funds. The Minister of Culture has our crystals in playhouses about the local economy. I am so bold to remember that the Storting in four points has said something very clear about subtitling, where it is also said that we want it to be seen by state resources to adapt the technology we have abroad to Norwegian conditions. Then I am so bold to ask the Minister of Culture whether this will be followed up, either in the revised or in the budget of the House.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e666	That's what I think the asker knows I'm not going to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e671	That was a short and straightforward answer. I notice that during the spontaneous Question Time she followed up earlier promises within the local economy. But it'll be the Council of State's choice. We have over 600 000 Nordics that we characterize as hearing aids. I think there are many who attend both the NRK and the Council of State in this matter. At least that's how far we're going. We know that among the 600,000, there is a lot of children who are hearing impaired. What I'm familiar with now is that many of the children's programs – there are children's TVs, there are movies, there are travel programs – have gone without text, because resources were inserted to text other applications. Is it acceptable for the Council of State that there are many thousands of young people who are simply reducing their supply? Can the Council of State consider taking an initiative to correct what has now become negative for the young?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e680	The fact that there has been a rotation of the way the funds are used is unknown to me, but I can of course bring up this with both the NRK lead and the TV 2 lead if that is the case. I didn't think it was a good turn, either, if a person has deliberately spent more money on the crop programme than on the children's programme. Otherwise, I'd like to stress that we're following this up. We've come up with something short in terms of technology, but it's not the same thing as giving up. We're assuming that we're also getting good technological solutions in the long term. It's important that what we do in the end is of good quality, instead of getting half-good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e690	I will ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘It turns out that several contact agencies operate an unusual form of marketing, in which they advertise women with three months’ ‘right of exchange’. The media mention that Thailand's embassy recently had to stop a Norwegian when he was about to pick up the 12th woman to the country. What does the Council of State do to protect these women?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e699	More and more women come to the country through family reunification on the basis of marriage. Marriage may in some cases have been transmitted via the Internet or through a marriage agency, as referred to in the question asked by the representative of Bekkelem Orheim. We are aware that an increasing proportion of these women are also subjected to violence and abuse by their spouse and must seek refuge in the crisis centres. In some cases, we find examples of one and the same man picking up many women who are soon being replaced with new ones. We have taken measures to ensure that these women receive the best possible treatment in cases where they are addressed to the police. All police districts were given a family violence coordinator from 1 July to help police districts deal with all such matters with a high level of professionalism, no matter to which police district the victims address. The problems in some cases are that the police come to know about these matters in retrospect. In addition, these are very complex issues, which require individual treatment. However, I would like to consider several measures. This applies, inter alia, to: the proposal to allow foreign authorities to obtain information from the criminal record so that women seeking family reunification with their spouse may be warned against marrying that husband. Per. Today, the alienation authorities do not have the authority to reject an application for family reunification because there is information or suspicion that Norwegian citizens have mistreated their former spouse. However, a legal committee set up to review the Foreign Affairs Act will look at these issues in more detail. The legislative committee will deliver its opinion at the end of 2003. However, I am sceptical about implementing measures based solely on regulating such activities. In many cases, the police will not be aware that an offence can or will be committed. Regulatory measures could therefore provide false security and thus have no or limited effect on what is intended, namely to prevent these women from being subjected to degrading treatment or serious crime of violence. Therefore, in addition to any legal regulation, information material should be developed in the relevant languages, where women are informed of their rights and the functioning of the ancillary public service in Norway. One possibility could be to distribute the information material in connection with the application for residence in Norway. In the context of the work on a new action plan, ‘Violence against women’, these actions will be assessed. There we will also consider further measures to protect this group of women, as presented in the representative’s questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e719	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I see as positive. I understand that the Council of State has to wait for the sample before he gets rid of all the individual parts of it, but I interpret the answer positively compared to the fact that he is willing to also come up with perhaps a little controversial measures to stop this unworthy traffic of women from poor countries. We know that Sweden has come a little bit on the way. They've tried out a certificate of good conduct, which has been able to give women information about the man they're going to marry. My clear question to the Council of State is whether he is willing to use the law if necessary, so that we guarantee these girls good legal certainty. We can't use the law as an excuse to not do anything for these young girls. The most important thing must be to give them protection, and if necessary by a law, I believe that government and greatness need to do so. This is a new business, which has confronted us with problems with which we have been unknown, and therefore I hope that the Council of State will be offensive in the time that comes in this particular area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e726	The representative and I have the same commitment. We're going to use the law where it's consistent. That's what I said in the main reply, and it's quite understood, as it's been interpreted. I am also familiar with the Swedish system, and there are just such measures that will be updated in connection with entering the criminal record, so that information can be provided in cases where a person has been previously punished for violence. The other side of this is information. We have suggested this in connection with another measure, which unfortunately is related to this, namely trafficking, where, in addition to legal regulation, we also use information measures. I agree with the representative that in situations where marriage is made on this basis, we need to strengthen legal certainty for women who are subjected to abuse. I have previously answered questions to myself in Stortinget that the Swedish scheme is one of the measures that we want to include in the job of this legislative committee that I have referred to in my main response. We have a new challenge, and we have to meet it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e735	Quite briefly, it sounds like the Minister of Justice and I agree with you on this point. I can at least promise that on behalf of the Workers' Party we will follow developments in this field very closely and take care of what the Minister of Justice does when he has got his position on the table and will present concrete proposals to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e740	No one dies of being liberal. I started the action plan against violence in society, which also had some of these aspects, and it was passed on by Minister of Justice Hanne Harlem. I gave her credit for that, and it was quite natural to take up the thread. As politicians, we sometimes have to see that we actually stand together in matters, and then we do. Then we can use our political creativity to become capable political craftsmen to help those who need it. And there I feel that the representative and I are on the same track half.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e748	‘In the covering letter of the Association of Forestry and the Ministry of Justice for the Exploration of the Law of Landing in the magazine Skogerieeren nr. 3 it is encouraged to ‘continue and contribute to the rescue of the Tomtefestelaw’. The proposal of the Workers' Party is described as a ‘ran of private property in the districts’. It is also claimed that by replying ‘you will contribute to the law not changing, and that you as a fastener will not suffer great financial loss!’. Does the Council of State believe that such a wording and such cooperation with interested parties ensure a neutral investigation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e755	I would first like to stress that the covering letter to which the representative Storberget refers has not been prepared by or in any way clarified with the Ministry of Justice. The Norwegian Forestry Association has prepared the covering letter on its own initiative and the letter was not presented to the Ministry until it was sent out. The Ministry of Justice therefore does not include the contents of the letter. The reason why the Ministry of Justice logo is printed on the letter is due to an error in the printing process, according to the Association of Forestry. The logo should have been printed on the questionnaire itself drawn up by the Ministry and not on the covering letter drawn up by the Association of Forestry. The department was first made aware of this error after the letter and questionnaire had been sent. The Ministry has therefore had no opportunity to correct the error. I regret that the letter thus wrongly gives the impression that the Ministry of Justice is in favour of the content of the letter. I would like to stress that the Department is taking a great deal of distance from the angle chosen by the Association of Forests in its covering letter. It has always been a clear prerequisite for the study to be conducted in a neutral manner in order to ensure optimal knowledge of the facts about the effect of the Law on Landings § 15. This is also the reason why the Ministry has chosen to cooperate both with the landowners’ side and with the parties’ side. The forestry association has stated that in the next issue of the forest owner they will explain the error that has been made, and that they will complain to the Ministry of Justice about what has been done by them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e766	I thank you for your answer and am pleased that the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice have this position on this covering letter. I have to admit that it seems to me that this was the case. This case and this survey are of exceptional importance in terms of the job to be done by the Ministry and the Stortinget for the autumn compared to the 350 000 feasters of recreational and residential areas in Norway. What is so stupid about this broadcast and the cooperation that the Ministry of Justice has started with stakeholders is – and it shows this to the full – that you can get such an impact page. Now the damage has already happened, by the fact that the Forest Society has so strongly marked what is the intention of the study. Is the Ministry of Justice going to do something extraordinary to remedy this damage, to ensure that the investigation and the basic material are neutralised?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e773	Now the Ministry of Justice is already acquitted in the newspaper Østlandingen, with the appropriate comment from the representative of Storberget. Let me quote: ‘The Ministry of Foreign Affairs — A very regrettable error. The Ministry of Justice does not support our industrial policy text, says Bjørn Lauritzen of the Association of Forests.’ It is fair and reasonable to react to what is, and I expect the representative to read the Eastland, just as the Council of State does, but let us now base the good intention. In order to achieve the goals that the representative Storberget and I agree on, namely that we will get a case out as soon as possible, we do not just cooperate with the Forest Society. We cooperate with the League of Bonds, the League of Plots and the Alliance of Public Opinions. The survey will be conducted in a proper way, and we expect the answers to be indicative. The Department will then make its political assessment. I find that those who have abused our logo, as they say, by «a technical defect», have laid themselves flat for us, and then we follow the slogan that when you have apologized in a duly strong way, the matter has been taken note of by us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e787	I read Eastlanden as actively as Solan Gundersen. I'm born and raised with newspapers, so I'm familiar with this. But what's at the heart of the matter here is that it doesn't have to do with any excuse to the Ministry of Justice. The question is about the legal process and the basic work that we are going to do in Stortingen until the fall will be a sufficient excuse for the many parties around Norway who now experience completely unfair results from the law on the land. That's the excuse I'm afraid is going to be too bad. Now I saw to my delight in the World Gang the other day that the chairman of the Judicial Committee goes out and says that he supports the proposal to phase out the Santa Claus system. It might be interesting to end this by asking the State Council of the Ministry of Justice if it is such that the Government has now decided to support the proposal to phase out the scheme, as the chairman of the Judicial Committee and right-wing representative Trond Helleland give signals about in the world's time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e796	This case has a factual core and a polemic core. The real core is that the Storting would quickly have an evaluation. That's what Stortinget gets. They also want lawbreakers. That's what Stortinget gets. The polemic core is hardly the representative of Storberget completely unknown. He himself in the good cause's service has been sharp in Poland, and that's his right as an active politician. He has to assume that the Ministry of Justice is able to sort between polemics, whether they now represent the Forest Society or that it is the representative of Storberget. It's the way we have an independent obligation to deal with the leaders of the Storting, and we're going to do that. Then Stortinget gets back the material that they ordered, and that I have commented and agreed to in proper rounds in this house, not long ago. Then we meet with the solutions that will be put on the table then.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e806	«For women in acute crisis, there are now 50 crisis centres and special police reception apparatus where they can contact. Men in crisis have few places to turn. The only offer many violent men get, they receive under atonement. There are few offers to men besides the whole country. What will the Council of State do to make available the available information, better known, and what will the Council of State do to strengthen and develop the existing and limited offer to men to apply to the whole country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e813	It is an important task for the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with other central and local authorities, to further develop the offer of violent men. In addition to the offer offered by Alternatives to Violence – ATV – in Oslo, Langesund and Drammen, there are four treatment options for violent men in Norway. The offer is located by the following institutions: project Sinnemestering at the Brøset in TrondheimInstitutt for Clinical Sexology and the Therapy Family Violence Project at the Family Protection Office in Moldova other regional centres of competence for prison, security and judicial psychiatry In addition, the Ministry of Children and Family in September 2002 established the first Men’s Resource Centre in Norway – REFORM. The Centre shall focus on men’s problems and opportunities and shall be a place to go for men in crisis, sorrow and difficulty. The main activities of the Centre include: the creation and operation of resource groups for men in different situations of life, psychological and legal guidance and counselling in the event of divorce and child sharing. REFORM is initially established as a three-year project. The Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Health, has granted a crisis grant of NOK 1610 000 to Alternatives to Violence in 2003. The grant is a continuation of the ‘crisis grant’ of NOK 800 000 granted in 2002. The award was given because the Ministry considers the work of Alternative to Violence to be very important in developing the skills to help better men who are motivated to get out of violence. In addition to direct support for Alternatives to Violence to spread competences at national level, an additional 1.5 million has been allocated to the Ministry of Justice budget for 2003. D to the sensory programme aimed at violent men. In cooperation with the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Justice will draw up a new action plan for violence against women during 2003. An important area of action in the new action plan will be measures related to the development of a nationwide offer in the field of violence treatment and sensitisation, as the Swedish Government has also asked for in the budget budget. S. No 4 for 2002-2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e841	I thank you for your answer. There are eloquent confessions about men and violence: Family violence against women, children and other men may amount to 100,000 cases per day in Norway. of the suicides by men.88 pst. of those who commit suicide between the ages of 20 and 24, men.73 pst. of all admissions to paediatric psychiatric clinics are boys.75 pst. of those who are killed in an accident aged 15 to 24 years are boys. Men have drug problems to an enhanced degree. The victims are many, including those who commit crime. There are a number of firefighting measures for women. Will not a commitment to prevention and provision to men be of greater value to victims, who are often women, but also to these men, than to fire extinguishers, often in later prisons?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e875	Unfortunately, it is an area in which we must both prevent, operate firefighting and repair. We have to put all the measures in place at the same time and keep those thoughts clear in our heads. Because we've been lying behind, we had to start with firefighting and measures against women. Then we have acknowledged, among other things. through Alternatives to Violence's work, that it's possible, if you get to the right time and way, to help very many men who don't master their problems. That's the background of the answer I've given, which is also in the representative's commitment, as I see it. I share the view that this offer must be developed. It will just be a crucial point in the new action plan on violence in society, how we are going to achieve men, but also the children living in these societies. Then we'll be able to look at how the skills we have are to be further developed. We have now secured the basics of Alternatives to Violence. Then we will see how this measure can be used further and how other measures can also be used. I share the representative's view that we can also do a job here by being in front and not just having to run a fire extinguisher. So we need to think about all of the thoughts in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e882	==References== 95 pst. of the Norwegian captive population are men. There are probably many reasons for this, but I will not be bombastically drawing any conclusions. However, it turns out that many of the prisoners lack basic literacy skills. It is a sad failing statement to society that these men should learn basic reading and writing skills in prisons. A headline in the newspaper yesterday refers to studies where boys make it weaker in 90 p.m. by the subjects, than the girls. An OECD report concludes that at least 20 pst. of all Norwegian 15-year-old boys in Norway are functional illiterates. After finishing primary school, girls who choose health and social education get 1 100 hours per day. years in human-related subjects, while boys who choose technical subjects receive zero hours in human-related subjects. Could later criminal behaviour be a result of the type of training background Norwegian boys get compared to choosing a communication subject? And what can the Council of State possibly do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e889	The representative chooses to go very wide, and I'll try to answer. Firstly, the very question of how to acquire basic school skills is one of the key points of the Government in investing in school development. Secondly, youth research, which I heard last night in an excellent lecture by professionals working on this in Westfold, suggests that there are a number of boys coming out hard to run. Then we're just going to take this research inwards and learn from it, and so am I. And so it's that in terms of prisons, one of the measures that actually works very well there is education. We have a teaching system in Norway that allows those who have lost it before, whether the reason is one reason or another, to take it back later. It is also true that in Norwegian prisons there is record lending of books in the libraries. So there's probably a lot of people here who both take things that they haven't got with them before, and who take advantage of the possibilities that exist. The general nature of the issue thus goes far beyond the justice sector, but it is, of course, within the remit of the Government, inter alia. in relation to education policy, and I have already replied to how the basic skills of everyone in school are being put into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e901	‘In the 2003 budget, the Storting expected the scheme to be put in place for the rehabilitation of dental kits for periodontite patients. When this did not happen, the department was specifically asked to assess by regulation to secure funds for this, and the Stortinget earmarked 50 million. for this purpose, in order to ensure the prompt implementation of reimbursement to patients. Several patients have approached because no change has been made. When may the Council of State be able to implement the decision on the grubbing-up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e908	The Government's budget proposal for the current year showed that reimbursement for rehabilitating dental treatment due to teeth lost by periodontitis was not introduced in this round. The reason was a lack of evidence of treatment needs and costs of this type of treatment. The size decided to earmark 50 million. kr i 2003 for the rehabilitation of dentistry after periodontite treatment. During the budgetary procedure in Stortinget on 11 December last year, I said that I would come back with a scheme for the implementation of a tooth loss reimbursement scheme as a result of periodontite in the revised national budget. At the same time, I said that a change to the regulation had to be based on a thorough screening of the patient group. This work is in full swing. The Rikstrøgdeverket shall provide the Ministry with both the necessary documentation and a proposal for a reimbursement scheme during the spring. A proposal for the implementation of a reimbursement scheme will be presented in the revised national budget, as I promised the Stortinget in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e915	We are constantly receiving enquiries from patients who expect their expenses in connection with this treatment to be reimbursed. They tell about dentists who don't know how to behave, and dentists express their need because they think they don't have clear guidelines from the department. And until now, the department seems to have had a vague attitude to it. For example, we have been told that the tariffs that were actually introduced on 1 January, which are part of the adopted roof 2 scheme, were increased by 60 pst. from 1 March, apparently because the tariffs were too low in relation to the grant of the Storting. How is this going to work out? I have to say, it doesn't seem like the department has a very large overview of this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e922	The question raised by Britt Hildeng was the implementation of a reimbursement scheme for rehabilitating dental treatment due to periodontitis. It is clear to everyone, including Norwegian dentists, that we do not have a reimbursement system for such treatment today. The size has decided that 50 million will be reserved. NOK to set up such a scheme. I have promised Stortinget to continue working on the professional basis and design a system, and I will return to it in the revised national budget, as I have promised. The representative now referred to by Hildeng is the design of the tariffs in relation to the general reimbursement scheme for periodontitis, i.e. for what is not related to rehabilitation. There is the responsibility of the department to ensure that the scheme is designed as far as possible in line with the decisions taken by the Stortinget, and that is why we have adjusted the course along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e931	For a long time in the United Kingdom, there have been calls for different aspects of dental treatment in Norway, among others. because we have to find that in many areas we are far from other countries to which it is common to compare ourselves. And given the many decisions that have been taken, I have to say that it's just as if there's some kind of refusal on the part of the department to comply with the Storting decision. This applies to the long period of time that has now been associated with the periodontite treatment, but also to other matters. On several occasions, Stortinget has called for a separate report on dental care, nor is it available. When can the Storting expect the Council of State to follow up this decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e938	I cannot agree with the suspicion of the Ministry's motives now expressed by the representative Hildeng. It is my clear ambition as the Council of State that the decisions of the Storting should not only be respected, but should be followed up and followed up. And to the extent that there are problems in following the Storting decision, Stortinget is the first to know about it and get proposals based on the status of the department. With regard to the specific issue, I have to point out that I have implemented what I said in Stortingen on 11 December: I come to the revised national budget with a proposal for implementation. I have assured myself that the work on both the professional monitoring and the design of the reimbursement system is on track in relation to this, and it is my clear ambition that we will be able to implement such a system in the autumn. With the same conscience I will follow up other decisions that Stortinget takes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e951	The question is as follows: «Very many have suffered neck damage through road accidents or other accidents. Many enquiries from people with neck injuries indicate that the investigation and treatment offer is very close enough in our healthcare system, and there appears to be a lack of knowledge about both the damage image and good rehabilitation. What can the Council of State do to ensure good treatment provision for patients with neck injuries?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e960	Patients with neck injuries report that they experience being ballistics between different specialists such as neurologists, physical physicians, orthopaedics, psychiatrists, physiotherapists, etc. They often say that they have not experienced that someone has had an overall responsibility for investigating and dealing with this type of damage. These are signals that there is every reason to take seriously. Patients shall experience a healthcare service that meets their needs. The Social and Health Directorate has therefore proposed that neck patients be treated at outpatient clinics where they exist. In this way, a specialist will have an overall responsibility for the patients. However, it is regrettable that we do not know what is the real cause of long-term problems due to neck injuries following road accidents or other accidents, either in Norway or internationally. This also means that it is not possible to determine what is an optimal treatment in all cases. According to the Social and Health Directorate, there are per at present no safe method of detecting injury in these patients. There is little scientific evidence to support the organic damage caused by patients, and it is therefore difficult to offer patients treatment that eliminates the plague. Some specialists believe to be able to detect tape damage in the neck of MR studies, but since no studies are available in the normal population, what the findings identified mean for patients’ distresses is uncertain. The whole international medicine seems to have the same problem. Some centres abroad believe that they have good treatment services, but according to the estimates of Norwegian trade unions, this is about methods and approaches that are poorly professionally documented. As some of these centres use risky, large-scale operations in the neck region, Norwegian specialists are justified in recommending such treatment until a proven utility has been demonstrated. Research funds from the University Hospitals in Trondheim, Bergen and Oslo have been applied for to clarify the causal relationship with the plagues of patients with neck length injuries. The project in Bergen aims to further explore the treatment method used in some centres in Germany, so that the benefits of this treatment can be clarified. Per. Today, this treatment is to be regarded as experimental, without any scientific foundation. My clear ambition is that when new methods are introduced, we should use methods that are either well documented or also use a research approach, so that we are able to provide scientific evidence ourselves, with adequate follow-up and evaluation. Therefore, the initiatives that have come to Norwegian research projects are interesting. Several of the research projects proposed in Norway also intend to further assess the usefulness of MR studies on any tape damage in the neck. Furthermore, the Social and Health Directorate has recommended that St. Olav’s Hospital in Trondheim, currently a national competence centre for back patients, also have national competences in relation to neck injuries. I want to make sure that these recommendations are followed up. I also see that central health authorities need to do something to improve knowledge of neck injuries, both in terms of diagnosis and treatment. I would therefore also like to assess how we can encourage some of our university hospitals to prioritise clinical research on neck injuries.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e975	I thank you for your answer. I think the Minister of Health made a very constructive contribution to moving forward. That's what I want to say. At the same time, on my own account, I believe that parts of the healthcare system have a problem, namely to accept that the problem of neck injury exists. I have received a lot of enquiries over the years, which are based on patients being rejected directly – yes, I may also have to use the word “trakassert” – not least because of relationships that I am not going to deal with here, but which relate to insurance doctors and insurance companies. I will leave it at this point, but the reports I get about patient-experienced situations suggest that this is serious. The Minister of Health also seems to be involved, in more diplomatic order than those I now used. Clearly, the expertise in the specialist environments is somewhat scattered, and I have noticed that the interaction is too bad. My supplementary question to the Minister will then be: does any possibility of coordinating the knowledge environments anything better than what seems to be the case today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e984	The approach adopted by the Directorate-General for Social and Health to this problem, namely the proposal that neck patients should be treated more closely in outpatient clinics, is an approach that will provide a more holistic approach. These are, of course, highly multidisciplinary offers, where the various disciplines need to cooperate on the patient. It should be a prerequisite in all complex contexts, but unfortunately it is not always. I think we should take seriously that this is simply a lack of knowledge, not just in Norway, but internationally. Then the answer is very much related to developing and documenting knowledge. I have therefore expressed interest in these research initiatives. [[The President clubs.]] And...
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e991	Asmund Kristoffersen – for additional questions. The President apologizes if he disturbed the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e996	Then I shall proceed from where the Council of State was interrupted by the President! It must be very correct and important to stimulate method development and evidence, not least on what one actually does. That's why I found it very reliable to hear that the minister wants to stimulate research in the different environments. I very much agree with that. What will then be the question is: To what extent does the Minister see the possibility of just adding the funds needed to get on with the research, and to what extent does he encourage health businesses to actually use it? It is quite obvious that someone is now standing in a kind of backsea and is not going to get there to a sufficient extent. I think that's actually a big challenge. So I just want to say briefly about the back clinics: that's not the answer, because there's a competence that maybe doesn't relate to the top of the spine. Therefore, I do not want it to be too important that it is the only answer. There has to be something more than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1007	It turned out from my main answer that it is more than that. But that's part of the recommendations I've received from the Social and Health Directorate, which I think there's reason to follow up. I would also like to look at how to encourage some of our university hospitals to prioritise such clinical research. What possibilities we have for that, I'm going to come back to. But medical research is generally a priority. From the Ministry of Health we are concerned to influence the device of the commitment to medical research, and this is one of the areas where it will be relevant to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1018	I will ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘Decreases in granted child protection measures have been recorded following notifications in several counties. Measures granted vary from state to state. There are variations of up to 20 pst. Mother/child institutions claim that the counties withdraw from cooperation, justified by the poorer economy. The granted duration of treatment has also been greatly reduced, resulting in poorer results. What will the Council of State do to identify how poor municipal and county economies affect the provision of treatment in mother/child institutions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1027	It is very important that there are good offers and measures in child protection where parents and children can get help together. The mother/child institution is therefore a kind of institutional provision that we need. The government is concerned that there is a wide range of good measures to support and help vulnerable children and their parents, not least many single-parents need the various forms of help a mother/child institution can provide. Here parents and children can receive guidance and help in a safe environment for a short or longer time, depending on the level of assistance needed in each individual case. This is, moreover, also in line with the main perspective of the new child-rearing communication on child protection. In total, we have per cent. today on a national basis about 20 mother/child institutions. Four of these are in Oslo. The Ministry has obtained information that no mother/child institutions outside Oslo have recorded any decrease in the occupancy rate, but that many have recorded an increase in demand. The occupancy rate is high in these institutions. The picture therefore seems more nuanced than the representative Hansen outlines in his question. In the case of mother/child institutions in Oslo, I have been informed that the coating percentage is approx. 60 pst. today. There may be different reasons why the coating is not higher. Nor is it certain that a relatively low coating means that there are too few who get a good offer. The municipality of Oslo informs, inter alia: that they have a number of alternative measures for this group. Another reason might be that the municipality of Oslo had to change the payment scheme for a period of time, so that the districts themselves had to pay for the entire stay at the institutions. This scheme was abandoned as late as March this year. Per. Today, the four institutions have framework funding as before, i.e. that they receive funds for the operation of the municipality centrally and that the districts pay only a proportion of their own. One of the institutions is already recording an increase in space demand. Finally, I would like to comment on what Mr Hansen says about the variation in the number of child protection measures in the counties. The number of children in child protection receiving domestic or out-of-home measures is increasing for each year, and there are variations between the counties in the proportion of messages leading to action. But you don't get a proper picture of the quality of child protection just by counting the number of measures. There are many different relationships that play, and help can be given – and given – in different ways. In fact, the number of broken messages does not need to mean that these children are not getting any help. In many cases, advice and guidance are provided under the provisions of the Child Protection Act. At other times, links are made to other support agencies, without the need for decision-making by the Child Welfare Service.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1038	I thank you for your answer. I have visited mother/child institutions – we can come back to whom it is – which have clearly marked a decrease both in the time allowed for treatment and in the number of enquiries. That's justified by economics. There has been a report from the National Audit Office today, which shows that studies show that there are considerable variations in the amount of money spent by different municipalities and county councils on child protection, and that there are problems in cooperation between municipalities and county councils, especially with regard to issues related to the distribution of responsibilities between levels. It is absolutely right that more children are being provided with child protection measures. It's a tragic development. We get many more messages than before. However, the children’s and youth protection messages that we have just addressed in this issue show that, as a percentage, the number of measures approved is falling into 11 county municipalities. It's kind of funny when the messages just get more and more. What will the Council of State do to chart this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1049	There is no problem in going out and investigating this if it should be the case that some mother/child institutions, as the representative claims, have marked a decline because of the economy. We have not received the kind of alarming messages to the department. But if the representative can prove that there are some institutions we should take a closer look at, then of course we will. We don't have any trouble with that. But once again, I would argue that you can't just count the number of messages and actions, as if it were synonymous with the number of investigations and investigations. In fact, very many child protection studies have been carried out today, which do not necessarily lead to child protection measures. We can also read in the newspaper today that the number of children who have received child protection measures in recent years has exploded. So more and more measures are being taken in the field of child protection. I agree with the representative that this is, of course, tragic. However, the number of actions undertaken is not necessarily synonymous with the number of investigations and studies. Everyone has the right to help and action in the area of child protection if they need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1056	Thanks for the answer. I have to make it clear again that we are receiving enquiries from municipalities and counties – something that SV also mentioned in the debate on child and youth protection – that in fact no action is being taken, because it is the end of the money. It is the economy that governs child protection measures. This report from the Riksrevision says it clearly, in many different ways. What I'm asking the Council of State is, how will the Council of State follow up on this? And: How will she map that it's not the economy that controls the measures, but actually the need these children have, which are the weakest children we have in our society?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1065	Once again, it is clear that as a government council there is no problem to investigate, but it would have been important for me to get exactly the documentation that the representative clearly has in relation to alarming enquiries from institutions in different municipalities and counties, information that I am not sitting on. It would have been very nice to get direct enquiries or evidence that it concerns them and those municipalities and them and the counties. In the context of the Child Protection Communication, which we have recently dealt with in Stortingen, and in the context of the review of the funds used in child protection today, there are a significant number of increased positions in the protection of children in municipalities. It's very joyful. Very many municipalities have increased their efforts in the field of child protection, i.e. via the number of posts. But the whole grip we're taking, just to avoid the fact that there are too many differences in child protection – because it's true that there are big differences in the different states – is the grip we took on the big message, which we're now following up, namely a new organisation of child protection, where the state takes a greater responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1076	I have the following questions for the Minister of Education and Research: ‘The governance of cooperation is of high quality at school and improving the competence of teachers. The learning centre publishes scholarships for continuing education in mathematics, Norwegian and Sami where the prerequisites for obtaining a scholarship are to achieve a total of 60 study credits by 2005. There's a 60-point limitation. Stavanger has started a master's degree in literacy. This is the competence requested in line with the Government’s priorities. Why should no scholarship be given to this study from the Learning Centre?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1085	International and national surveys show that on average the literacy skills of Norwegian students are not good enough. Norway is among the countries where literacy varies most, and lack of literacy among boys is particularly alarming. It is serious that every five students leave primary school with so weak reading skills that there could be a serious obstacle to subsequent education and participation in the labour market. Many teachers who teach Norwegian at primary school have a lack of education in the subject. In 2000, a comprehensive survey of teachers on their education in the subjects in which they teach was carried out by the Central Statistical Office. Of the teachers who informed that they were teaching in Norwegian, about 50 pst. by childhood teachers and 30 pst. by the youth teachers that they had less than 30 points of education in the profession. Both the learning outcomes of pupils and the knowledge of teachers’ education show that it is necessary to improve the basics of primary school teachers for learning in reading and writing. I have therefore taken the initiative to strengthen the competence of new teachers as well as teachers working at school. A scholarship for further training in Norwegian with a focus on reading and writing is one of the measures. From the autumn of 2003, basic training for general teachers will give new teachers 30 points of study in Norwegian, 10 points of study in basic reading, writing and calculation training and the possibility of increased depression in Norwegian and other schools. In order to give teachers who are already working at primary school the opportunity to increase their professional competence up to 60 credits, I have arranged for them to apply for a scholarship of up to NOK 100000 in order to complete their further training. I have also taken the initiative to develop flexible and practical further training offers in Norwegian with a focus on reading and writing and using ICT in the profession. Offers are given in the current academic year at eight universities and higher education institutions, and 245 teachers participate. I expect that the possibility of receiving a scholarship will lead to much more teachers taking further training in this important field. A strategy with concrete measures to promote the literacy and knowledge of pupils is under preparation in the Ministry. The scheme for continuing training in Norwegian and Sami, implemented from the autumn of 2003, is one of several measures in the strategy. There is an urgent need to establish schemes to help students receive good training. In the first place, therefore, the grant scheme is used to enable teachers who teach at primary school to increase their professional competence up to 60 credits, corresponding to one year’s study. Of course, it is very important and positive that the College of Stavanger has started a master’s degree in literacy. One of today's requirements for admission to this study is 90 study credits in Norwegian. In the light of experience and the demand for grant schemes, I would like to assess whether it may later be appropriate to take action to stimulate the search for higher-level studies in priority areas, for example: by scholarships.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1106	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I heard at the end of the answer that there is reason to believe that someone is considering extending the grant scheme, which is very positive. Reading science must be the competence sought. This is still evident in new studies. The PISA study clearly showed that Norwegian young people are poor at reading. This applies both to initial training and to young people in relation to literacy and competence. Now that one determines that the need for competence is so great, it must apply to all teachers, not only to those who are under education, or to those who enter further education, but to all the teachers. Because it's in school most teachers are. Will the Council of State take the initiative to take action to improve the building of competences in municipalities and at higher education institutions, so that the competence can benefit all teachers and in the second series of pupils?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1115	Let me first say that the reading environment at the Stavanger College is a professionally very good environment. I can also say that we are making extensive use of the professional environment there in the work we are doing to strengthen the literacy and literacy of students, as well as the competence of newly educated and existing teachers in the field of training in these subjects. As I said, in the first place, we have focused on teachers who are already in school and who lack competence. But I think that all the measures here should be considered, because reading is a basic subject. It is, to the most extent, a tool subject, a source of benefit in education and working life, but it is also a source of pleasure and quality of life. So it's a very important bet area, and this will be very important. I'll take this further. I also want to confirm that we are very concerned about how we can use the university and higher education environments in an even better way vis-à-vis school Norway in terms of learning resources and skills development. We will do so, among other things. return to the revised national budget. There we will present an assessment of how to strengthen the State education administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1124	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is very positive that one considers expanding the arrangements and building a competence centre – I hear it might be Stavanger. Finally, I have a short question: Will what is planned go beyond scholarship schemes and further training, but be an overall read training plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1131	The last is just the point, and I can give a little reference to the plan for strengthening the real subjects that the ministry has already submitted, which is a five-year plan. I do not want to claim that there has been no initiative in the past or action taken to strengthen the real subjects, but it was very fragmented, untransparent – there was no comprehensive strategy behind it. So we've put in a good deal of new action on the real subjects, but it's also an attempt to coordinate the measures that were already in place. We didn't have a college in the department long ago with the reading-interested environments in Norway. It happens very positively, but if everything is fragmented and inconspicuous, we might not get the benefit of what we could have. This is why one important objective of such a plan is to bring together all these good forces, see the measures in the context and get the most out of them, among other things. by better coordination.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1138	Question 10 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1144	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘The Spokesman’s Centre in Stavanger has been shown to fulfil a very important function for relatives of people with drug and/or psychiatry problems. Their evaluation report should have transfer value as the basis for similar centres in other parts of the country. Will the Council of State take any initiative in this way?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1153	The representative of Meltveit Kleppa points to a very important area within the drug field. It is easy to understand, and surveys also support, that having a drug addict in the family is a heavy burden. Drug abuse is covered by many stigmas, and for its relatives, this involves both guilt and shame — in many cases also a daily life marked by threats and extreme fear of what their children can do to themselves and others. Under the social services law, the municipalities of social services have a responsibility to provide advice, guidance and help to the families of drug users. Despite this, I am aware that many relatives experience that they are not being met and get the help they expect. This may apply to both social and health services. A recent study shows that this is a widespread problem that auxiliaries have to deal with seriously. In the Government’s action plan on drug problems, the main objective is to reduce the social and health damage caused by drug abuse. An important strategic objective is to improve access to effective counselling, assistance and treatment for those with drug problems and their relatives. Providing better help and care for the relatives of drug users is a challenge of both a professional and aggressive nature. Apart from the overall responsibility of the Directorate for Social Affairs and Health for improving skills and enabling the auxiliary services to respond to this problem, the regional competence centre for drug issues at the Borgestadklinikken has a special responsibility for this subject area. I am familiar with the work of the Family Centre in Stavanger, and that others have good experience with this. The social service is responsible for providing advice and guidance to the families of drug users. However, how this is to be done is up to the individual municipality. The care centre has developed a model of how this responsibility can be taken, and I have also assured myself that the Social and Health Directorate is familiar with this model. I'm assuming that the directorate will facilitate making this knowledge available to other municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1168	Stavanger Retirement Center received start-up funds from the central government for a three-year period. They had plans about, and they followed up the plans with, a low-threshold offer for relatives, so that relatives experience being primary clients – a professional professional offer, a health-promoting offer, an offer that one can actually claim is to save funds far into the Social Minister's budget, I think of in relation to sick leave and disability. It is about telephone consultancy, individual conversations and couple conversations, family groups and other groups, and it is about information and education. But what I'm asking about is, does the Ministry of Social Affairs not see any possibility of giving start-up funds to other centres and, therefore, savings in other budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1175	It is an important work that is done in relation to relatives, especially at the Family Centre in Stavanger. Now this centre received state resources, project funds, and a summary and a statement from them on how the funds have been used – there is probably something more than just an evaluation. But the point is, as the representative asks, if not the method, the way to work, can be a model that can also be recommended for other municipalities. That is exactly why I have emphasised that the Social and Health Directorate is familiar with the Family Centre, they are familiar with the model, and they are familiar with the experience. There are also other types of organisations in Norway that are working in relation to relatives. All this work is important. I have also established and appointed two samples to advise on precisely how to deal with drugs policy. The samples include both former addicts, relatives, a number of professionals, so that a theme for these samples will be just to provide advice and gather some more experience. I am concerned that the relatives will get a day-to-day so that they can actually deal with it. The method and experience of the Family Centre in Stavanger will be shared by other municipalities in this way that the directorate will follow it up. I will not let go of this work in relation to what will be done further in the drug reform work, also in the appointed samples.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1189	It is good that the Council of State has faith in the method. It is good that she has led the Health Directorate to follow up, and that the City Centre is also doing its part in this job. What is still the dilemma, both in Haugesund and in other municipalities that assess this model, is that there is a huge urban economy. This means that what the municipalities are now discussing is not new measures, but it is actually cutting existing supply, and it can even go down on both social and health services. Then it's my view that the Minister of Social Affairs should see the possibility of strengthening a guidance service that can actually prevent some sickness absence, even perhaps some inconvenience, by allowing people to get into a positive way of mastering everyday life. Doesn't the Council of States see that context as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1196	The representative Meltveit Kleppa always ends up in recent times with local economy as the starting point for any question. The representative has argued that it is a good economy just to offer a good offer to relatives. Then I hope that she also agrees that it is the municipalities that are the arena and the arena to organise care for drug users, so it would be a good community economy to do this properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1204	‘Over the last 15 years, the situation of nursing elderly people in the municipality of Bergen has been characterised by a waiting list in order to obtain a permanent hospitalisation of between 500 and 200 people. The municipality’s action plan for the care of the elderly gives little reason to believe that the waiting lists will be removed. The main action has been to make it more difficult to get on the waiting list. The situation of elderly people in need of care has been unacceptable for a long time. What initiatives will the Council of State take to contribute to an improved situation for elderly people in need of care in Bergen?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1211	The County of Hordaland comments on the situation in the municipality of Bergen in its report on the action plan for the care of the elderly, saying: ‘In 2002, Bergen reports about 240 people on the waiting list to Sicknessheimsplaats. These are as many as in 2001. It is the municipality itself that has found it likely to report this way about the number of people waiting for long-term jobs. A part of the queue members will be assigned more or less permanent waiting slots while waiting for the long-term free space. Nevertheless, the waiting list indicates that many people who, according to professional judgements, need a sick home place do not have such a place within a reasonable time.’ At present, the supervisory authorities follow very closely the further development of care for the elderly, both in Bergen and other municipalities, not least with a view to continuing the measures and developments that started with the Action Plan for the care of the elderly. It is the municipality of Bergen that is responsible for expanding the care and care service so that it can offer a decent offer to its inhabitants. From 1998 onwards, the action plan for the care of the elderly has provided a strong framework for the development of the capacity of both nursing staff, nursing homes and nursing homes throughout the country. During the four-year period 1998–2001, the municipality of Bergen has had an increase in nursing staff of a total of 629 years. Compared to other municipalities, Bergen has chosen to strengthen institutional care more. When allocating the most recent investment grants in the action plan, Hordaland was given priority, due to the situation in Bergen. According to Fylkesmannen in Hordaland, the municipality has been granted all its development projects and has received commitments to grant grants for the construction and repair of a total of 429 nursing homes and 1,234 nursing homes. A good share of this expansion is still under planning and construction. This means that the total coverage of nursing homes and nursing homes in Bergen will increase from 26 to 33 per cent. 100 over 80 years. The number of rooms in institutions that are exclusive will increase from 75 to 95 pst. This makes me believe that the municipality of Bergen will be in a somewhat different situation when this whole expansion is completed during 2005. However, we have recorded that the municipality of Bergen has taken a little longer than other municipalities to carry out this development. The applications therefore came late, but when they arrived, they were given high priority by the County and the House Bank. I want to do my part to maintain the expansion rate in the municipality of Bergen in this area, and I believe that the results will not be missed when this expansion is completed. With regard to further measures to improve the quality of care for the elderly and to simplify the care systems, I point out that the Government has already announced its own big message on this issue in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1233	I thank you for your answer. I don't share optimism, with the background of long seagoing times as a local politician. Of the 240 nurses on the last official waiting list, 50 have been waiting for 12 months or more. At the same time – my measurement is from 30 June last year – a total of 143 applications were pending. So this is in addition to the waiting list itself. In Bergen, the majority have put in place a system of municipal approval of applicants, so it is not recommended by their own doctor – it is a short trick to reduce the displayed waiting list. If we go back six and a half years, the waiting list has varied by between 257 and 223. Does the Minister of Social Affairs think that this is the acceptable standard in Norway for care for the elderly, for the elderly who are in need of care?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1240	What I believe is that the state – big business, government – has contributed funds and allocations to the municipality of Bergen in line with the plans that the municipality of Bergen has made, and in line with the fact that they have included these plans in their financial plan – and the municipality of Bergen’s own recognition that it is actually necessary to give priority to the care of the elderly. From the state side, we have set up, and in addition, priority, Bergen. The mountains arrived late with applications. Some larger cities did, because it was complex, among other things. to have a review and assessment of the total offer. I cannot say that what is in the municipality of Bergen today is satisfactory. Nor do I perceive that the municipality of Bergen says so, they say that they have sought and that they have plans for development – but when the plan of old age is completed, they are well in line with what is within the objective of the elderly plan. But it is clear that there are challenges in Bergen, as elsewhere, in relation to the content of the ageing plan, and therefore we have also notified a big message about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1245	Locally, you're covered by a reference that you have a coverage of about 25 pst. for the number of places for residents over 80 years of age. Here, however, nursing homes and nursing homes are deliberately mixed to get a high percentage. Does the Council believe that nursing homes with a care factor of 0.1 should be mixed with nursing homes with day-to-day supervision when calculating the place coverage for nursing elderly people? Does the Council of State mean that it is possible to settle locally for national targets to be achieved when at least 250 waiting nurses are still on the waiting list? It must be the need and the needs that are crucial here, and not the percentage that has been set as a national average.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1252	It is the municipality that is responsible for organising the care of the elderly, the municipality itself is the priority, and the municipality itself is the applicant. The municipality has received what it has applied for, given that it has actually recognised that there is a need to develop the care of the elderly in the municipality of Bergen. In summing up what is called the area, depending on whether it is a nursing home or a nursing home, the starting point — and the objective — of the old age plan is that there is good luck care and care to be the criterion for achieving the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1262	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Neither the National Transport Plan nor the Sem Declaration have been followed up by the Government in respect of road improvements. Governments have calculated the low road standard, poor maintenance, postponement of road projects, etc. is it costing society in the form of accidents, delays and lower competition conditions for business?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1271	In this year's budget, more than 11 billion are allocated to expand, maintain and operate the national road network. The road section of the national transport plan, to which the representative Nistad refers, consists of two main elements: investment and operation/maintenance, both of which are intended to be worth more than DKK 5 billion per year. years. Adequate operation and maintenance of the road network, including road safety measures, are probably the most important for the vast majority of road users, not least in order to prevent accidents. The preservation of road capital through improved maintenance is also necessary in order to avoid significant burdens on future investment budgets. Traffic safety, operation and maintenance are therefore of very high priority for the Government, and in this main area, the follow-up is largely in line with the National Transport Plan, with a budget of more than DKK 5.5 billion in the current year. For national road investments, the follow-up rate is about 45 pst. after two out of four years of the action plan period. However, in this area too, the State budgets for 2002 and 2003 mean increased efforts in relation to the level of labour party government up to 2002, before the Co-operation Government took over. The co-operation management has, among other things: Spaces for a historically high focus on racial protection, full progress on all major road projects under way and the launch of a whole range of new road measures. The follow-up to the reduction in the number of fatalities and injuries incurred in the national transport plan is 57 pst. after two out of four years of the action plan period. A number of the projects within the State budget are important for business by providing more uniform standards and capacity utilisation in the transport corridors. This applies, for example: the follow-up to the Eastfold Package and the new Swinesund link, which will improve the accessibility of freight transport with regard to Norway’s main external link. In the context of the roll-out of the national transport plan, investigations will be carried out, inter alia. examines the competitive situation of freight transport and its contribution to the value-creating activities of business. I would like to remind you that this government has chosen to add to the tight state budgets in 2002 and 2003. This has been necessary in the interests of the Norwegian economy, Norwegian households and Norwegian business. The investment in transport must therefore also take place within a comprehensive economic policy that ensures a lower interest rate and a lower exchange rate. To put it simply, it helps little to spend billions more on better roads for rural businesses if the framework conditions otherwise become so bad that the roads will only be used to move people and machines out of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1286	I thank you for the answer, but there were not many numbers to get from there. It's okay to owe the Workers' Party – I agree that they had lower appropriations – but we still have a deficit of NOK 1.4 billion. In the case of road accidents, Director Leif Elevenset in Safer Traffic said yesterday at a committee meeting that they cost NOK 25 billion per year. years. He also said that completion of E6 through Eastfold would sooner than planned save society for the cost of accidents equivalent to two thirds of the construction costs. In addition, the savings for business, on which I unfortunately have not got a number. Is not the Council of State aware of the cost to society of providing for the development of good roads in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1293	I want to answer quite clearly: yes, I know. That's why we're accelerating the construction of, among other things. E6 through Eastfold. That's why we started the project with new Svinesundsbru – not least we see that on the accident side we will save society too much expense by implementing such projects. How much we have to gain from the accident side by taking different measures will vary greatly from place to place. It's important that, based on the overall framework we have, we put in the effort where it gives the most in relation to the cost-benefit ratio, where, among other things. traffic accidents are included.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1300	The Councils point to the overall framework. But will the Council of State come back and do something with these frameworks in the context of the revised national budget, because according to the framework that we laid down in the transport plan, are we today at minus NOK 1.4 billion? In addition, we have the famous Sem statement, where there were also large numbers, appropriations that were to be made for road construction, but that have not been made. It would be interesting to know if there would be anything more to road construction. At the same time, I would like to remind you that I have today submitted a Document No. Eight proposals on E6, Oslo-Trondheim, on which I would also like to move forward. Does the Council of State have any intention of meeting us on that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1309	I have to admit that I often stand here and answer questions – preferably from the representative of Nistad – about getting ahead of road investments in Norway. The answer is basically not different than it has been before. We have every opportunity to discuss arrangements and efforts in this area in relation to budgets submitted to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1319	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «The Ministry of Transport has asked the municipality of Bergen for further quality assurance of the urban railway project. Ringveg Vest, the second major project in the Bergen programme, has previously received strong criticism in a research report. [[RPR-SAT, § 3.5]] Will the State Council instruct Hordaland Road Office to ensure the quality of Ringveg West, as she has imposed quality assurance on the urban railway project?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1328	The construction of the urban railway in Bergen is subject to colloidal and road traffic tolls. In order to finance the construction of infrastructure for roads with public roads and tolls, such alternative use is required to relieve the road system and reduce the need for regular road investment. It is therefore necessary to demonstrate that a collective system could help to relieve the road network by shifting traffic from road to collective system, including, where necessary, additional restrictive measures in the case of road traffic. It is such an investigation that the Ministry of Transport has asked the municipality of Bergen. I do not see this as a weakening of the urban railway project – on the contrary, it will be very positive for the urban railway and public transport in Bergen that the project is organised so that as much traffic as possible is shifted to collective means of transport. In the case of Ringveg Vest, the municipality of Bergen was responsible for the impact assessment. A separate public transport investigation was carried out in the context of the impact assessment. The aim was to assess different collective options to be combined with or as an alternative to road construction. Although it was noted in the consultation round of the impact study that public transport was not properly investigated, the municipality of Bergen, which was both responsible for the impact assessment and the planning authority for the action, considered that these issues had been adequately addressed. All State projects over 500 million. kr shall be subject to external quality assurance. Such a requirement will also apply to the Ringweg West. In the case of the urban railway, this will not be a State project and will not, in principle, be subject to the rules applicable to State projects. The need for external quality assurance of the urban railway will be assessed after further clarification of the building developer's responsibility and the financing plan for the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1337	I thank you for the answer, but I think perhaps the Minister for Transport misunderstood the arrangement in my question a little. I am positive that the Minister for Transport sets quality requirements for the urban railway project. I think it'll strengthen the project. What I'm asking for is that the corresponding logic is taken into account for the second dominant project in the Bergen programme. So in Hordaland, under the direction of Hordaland Road Office, we have a history of dubious project management, large exceedances: western entryways, which are now being dealt with in the control committee here in the house, the North Hordland Bridge and the Osterøy Bridge, which have evolved in a very suspicious way. And then the question is, why is it only in the collective projects that all the stones should be turned around, when it says in the guidelines: ‘When capacity problems arise in the road system, alternatives other than increased road capacity shall be assessed on the same line.’; The question is whether the Minister of Transport is now interested in ensuring that such an assessment is made also in the case of Ringveg West.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1349	It is not true that only the urban track has to be secured in a special way. It's, as I said in my answer, so that all state projects over 500 million. kr shall be subject to external quality assurance. We have had a solid review of the cost developments of the large projects, and we have had a solid review of what can be done by improvements to avoid over-expenses of the dimensions to which it was referred. Therefore, it is important that we have good quality assurance of all projects, whether municipal projects – as an urban railway is – where we should then use state funds and tolls, or other projects with ordinary government appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1354	Thank you. I am somewhat surprised that the Minister of Transport does not want to go into this when, in the project for which the Minister of Transport will be responsible in many ways – i.e. in this research report – it is concluded that the requirements for identifying alternatives other than increased road capacity have not been met. I would like to read from the same report, which deals with the way in which operators and roadbuilders handle these requirements: ‘They then place orders on public transport investigations by consultants that the vegetation’s own people openly say are not feasible with the transport analysis models available in the market today. We have not found a proper explanation as to why the road managers act this way. However, it is close to assuming that the identification of the new road action may be part of the explanation.’ So the question is this one that's going to explore alternatives other than increased road capacity. Does the Minister for Transport think that this is generally happening to a sufficient extent today? If not, what will she do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1366	First, I would like to say that if the representative Lysbakken is against the collective effort put into the Bergen programme, among other things. through the work carried out in connection with the urban railway, there is a case in point. I'm concerned that when we have this kind of urban package that we're talking about here, there should be assessments of the collective effort. Bergen municipality has also done a solid job. These are also principles that have been put up here in Stortinget, and to which there has been broad support. I support Bergen in the work they are doing just to find good collective solutions. I think that is a virtue of necessity for the future in terms of our metropolitan policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1377	This question, from Tor-Arne Stroem to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative of Bjørgulf Froyn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1380	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Avinor AS has, through new provisions, enabled the Defence to close the airspace over Inner Helgeland for civil flight by up to 1,5 hours per. day with one day's notice. This has led to the fact that onlooke has had to cancel flights, which in turn results in travellers not being able to make planned trips. What will the Council of State do to deal with this, so that civil aviation does not suffer from the need for exercise flight by the Defense?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1389	Through its membership of Eurocontrol, Norway is required to implement measures to ensure greater cooperation on safety and capacity utilisation in the European airspace. In Norway, parts of passenger traffic have previously been operated in uncontrolled airspace where the Defence has operated training flights. This has in recent years led to several adverse events between civil and military aircraft. The FUA – Flexible Use of Airspace – aims to increase flight safety and improve the efficiency of airspace use by demarcating specific areas for specific periods of time, in order to distinguish military training activity from civil traffic. The Air Safety Authority has laid down a regulation providing for establishment and training areas according to the FUA concept. In the context of the introduction of FUA in Norway, the Ministry of the Air Traffic Management has provided that civil traffic is facilitated to the minimum extent possible. The areas where and the periods when military training activities may be active are carefully planned by Avinor AS and the Defence with representatives of civil aviation. Avinor AS has stated that this work has tried to find the time windows that had the least possible impact on civil users and that were at the same time compatible with the defence’s training needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1404	I thank you for your answer. In a way, it's a little surprising that there's such close cooperation between Avinor and the Defense when they put the times for the exercise flights where they're being laid. The consequences for Onions are not just an issue of the Unionoe's wings, but of the need for travellers to travel further at nodal points, which in this case will primarily be Trondheim. This creates unnecessary problems for travellers to an extent that has caused irritation, and it creates unnecessary costs for the Return as an operator. They cannot deliver the journey they originally offered, as they only receive one day's notice. My question to the Minister of Transport is: Is there not a reasonable reason to look at the system that works between Avinor and the Defence, and perhaps to contribute to finding other times for the exercises so that they burden civil aviation to an even less extent than what is being registered today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1413	It is absolutely right that it is important to meet the needs of travellers, but it is also very important that we take care of safety well enough. As long as there is a need for a defense activity, we need to find solutions that are good enough. It's been working on it, and it's going to be working on it just to avoid getting situations like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1422	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘New figures for 2002 show that a clear decrease in traffic accidents has been recorded on routes where the speed limit has increased from 90 km/h to 100 km/h. The head of the road safety section of the Directorate-General for Road Safety explains this by the fact that the new speed limit is better adapted to the level that the road users themselves consider to be natural, and that it thus becomes a smoother flow with less acceleration and braking in traffic. In the light of these figures, will the Council of State consider increasing the speed limits of several road sections?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1431	The Ministry of Transport decided in May 2002 to increase the speed limit to 100 km/h for parts of E18 in Westfold and Buskerud. This speed limitation increase was part of a test scheme with a specific speed limit of 100 km/h on some multi-field high standard and low accident frequency motorways adopted in connection with the current NTP. Specific requirements were also laid down for the construction of road lighting and earthworks and for the implementation of road safety audits. I believe that this attempt makes sense, inter alia. because it could contribute to ensuring general respect for speed limits. In parallel with these higher speed limit tests, attempts have also been made to reduce the speed limits on particularly accident-prone routes. On the E18 motorway section in Westfold, preliminary records show a decrease in the number of road accidents. In particular, the number of serious accidents has decreased after the opening of the new E18 through Buskerud and Westfold. I think it's a pleasure that the number of accidents has fallen on these sections. The preliminary results indicate that 100 km/h is an appropriate speed limit for motorway sections with very good standard. During the spring of 2003, the Road Directorate will carry out a final evaluation of the motorway sections at a new speed limit of 100 km/h. Road sections where the speed limit is reduced from 90 to 80 km/h and from 80 to 70 km/h will also be evaluated. The last group includes some of the most accident-prone national road sections. On these roads, with bi-directional traffic without any kind of secondary works and often with dangerous lateral terrain, the extent of injuries is large. Of new sections, only the E18 motorway section from Asker to Drammen has a high enough standard to increase the speed limit to 100 km/h. However, before the speed limit can be raised here, a stopover on a section in Buskerud remains to be fitted. Once the final evaluations of today's trials are completed, I will review which speed limits should be selected on different types of roads outside of built-in roads. My starting point is that speed limits are a means of improving road safety, and at the same time they are set to ensure respect for reasonable speed limits.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1446	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I interpret this so that she is open to consider increasing the speed limits on other road sections. Of course, as the Council points out, it is important that a road should be repaired, and that one should be able to secure the road in many ways. Entrepreneurship on road investment will lead to lower costs for business and will lead to fewer road accidents and will lead to fewer unemployed people in today's situation. My question is whether the Council of State will press for more funds to be released and enough funds for road investment in the future, both when it comes to the revised national budget and when it comes to the 2004 state budget, so that we can thus raise the standard of road sections and thus increase the speed limits.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1453	I just got this question here in the hall a few minutes ago. As far as I know, no draft budget has been submitted today! That's why we get back to it when the budget comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1458	I didn't ask questions as to whether it would be in the budget, I asked questions as to whether the Council of State would press for money to be given to the road sector. Otherwise, I would like to point out that last year we had a very dark year when the traffic damage – we passed 12,000 traffic damage, an increase of 15 pst. This is a strong negative trend that I think is alarming, and I would like to ask the Council of State: does this not show that the government's agency has failed in several areas, and that one is forced to rethink and use radical tools by increasing road construction and perhaps increasing speed limits in some places? Won't this give us a much better effect so that we don't get the negative development we saw last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1465	Research and experience show that different measures offer different outcomes in relation to increasing road safety, and it is important to apply different measures and to use different instruments. We do that, and as I pointed out earlier today, we are following up not least what is going on in operation and maintenance according to the transport plan, because it helps to keep safety up. Traffic safety analyses show that accident rates vary from time to time. We are currently well positioned this year, but we can in no way take on income because we have done a good job in road safety work. We must constantly ensure that we have a strong focus on road safety. And so it is that when we are within an overall framework, an overall economic framework, we must have a sound transport policy and a sound road safety policy, not least. In relation to whether I want to push for more money for transportation, I would like to remind you that it is the Storting that makes these decisions, finally.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1477	I have the following questions for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Compared with a number of other countries, the Norwegian local government sector has very limited powers to determine the level of own tax revenue itself. In Norway, local tax revenue from municipalities is only a small part of the total income of the sector. Both Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Iceland have higher local tax rates than Norway. Does the Council of State feel that there is a need to increase the right of Norwegian municipalities themselves to influence the level of own tax revenue to a greater extent than the current funding system provides for?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1486	The issue of local tax freedom was discussed by the Income System Committee in 1997. The sample pointed out that the issue of tax freedom is closely related to the issue of the content of local self-government. However, the selection did not find it possible to recommend local tax freedom, primarily because it would make macroeconomic governance of the municipal sector more difficult. In the 1999 municipal proposal, a free-tax experimental scheme was proposed within a range for a smaller number of municipalities. However, the proposal was not adopted by the Stortinget. Nor, in my view, is it an area in which it should be relevant to have experimental activities. The issue of local tax freedom cannot be assessed separately from the general funding of the local government sector. As previously announced in the municipal bill, the Ministry suggests that a major revision of the funding system should take place every 10 years, i.e. every 10 years. the next time in 2006–2007. The Ministry will therefore set up a new income system sample during 2003. The work of the sample should be based on a broad assessment of the funding of the local government sector. It would be natural for the issue of local tax freedom to be included in this assessment. I would like to stress that the Government per. has not yet taken a decision as to whether this should be explicitly included in the mandate. There are several important issues that need to be considered in relation to the issue of freer tax law. Norway has very many small municipalities, in contrast to, for example, Denmark and Sweden. As a result, opportunities for actually increasing revenue will be very different. Large municipalities, in population terms, will be able to significantly improve the economy, while small municipalities can do so to a small extent. This is parallel to toll discussions, where the heavily trafficked road sections can be expanded by user payment, whereas this is not possible in less trafficked areas. So freer tax law provides central space for extra income. As I see it, the political dynamics in Norway will gradually push for an even greater level of revenue, and free taxation will eventually force a redistribution at a higher level of taxation. For me, it is therefore unnatural to believe that free tax law can be combined with today's municipal structure. In total, there will be higher taxes in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1495	I thank the Council of State for a clarification. However, the background to my question is that from an increasing number of teams, there has been an increase in municipal autonomy, and increasing municipal autonomy is based on the assumption of increased local political freedom in several areas, including: in the case of tax law. Norway has one of the most – to say – centralised funding systems for the municipal sector when compared with other countries. It gives the state almost full control of municipal income. Very much of the daily lives of municipalities are about economics, and municipalities can do very little else today to influence their own economy, than to complain. Does not the Council of State mean that, for example, a freer, or a free, municipal taxpayer in the case of income taxes, could contribute to the vitalisation of municipal autonomy and contribute to increased electoral participation, and that it could be easier to get people to stand on the electoral lists and engage in municipal policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1504	There is currently one element of free taxation in the municipal sector, and there is property tax. I don't know if we can see so many rosy solutions – greater political mobilization of people, or greater involvement in local politics – by introducing voluntary property taxes around the municipalities. There are many good reasons why the municipal sector should have had a freer tax system, on the ideological level. At the same time, it is important to stress that we have an income system with a very high degree of redistribution, and we have a system in which political differences between municipalities have not been accepted. If it had been accepted for major differences between municipalities, if it had been accepted that compensation should not be granted in so far as the freer tax law provided inequalities, I would also say that it could have been a contribution to municipal autonomy. But per year. Today, I have no faith that this will lead to anything other than an increase in the level of taxation in general in Norway — just as we have freer tax laws today, while all municipalities are at the highest threshold.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1511	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I would like to reiterate that we have hardly ever heard a rapporteur be satisfied with the state budget. Rapporteurs, such as complainants, and crisis maximisation in the press regarding the claim of poor municipal economy, have almost become a fixed part of the annual budget ritual. And this centralist income system, I believe, promotes an unfortunate gambling situation, in which municipalities can in a way discharge themselves from responsibility and blame for the lack of state transfers and state underfinancing of the local government sector. I hope that the Council of State can at least agree that this centralist funding system that we have today enables municipalities to a certain extent to discharge responsibility for poor municipal economy by owing to the lack of state transfers. Although the Council of State has already said a lot about this in its answers, I ask whether the Council of State could imagine a kind of experimental scheme in which some municipalities themselves were given a freer position to decide their own taxpayer, at least for a certain period, so that they might not be equally liable to the State for non-financing? Wouldn't this be an interesting experiment that it could be worth looking at?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1520	I don't think freer tax law is an area that fits for experimentation at all. It also turns out that when we are finally going to sum up the attempt we have had on freer disposal in relation to earmarked schemes, it has also not worked so well, because there have been so many changes during this period. So I don't think this is an area where there's a need to do experimental work. Let me so underline that it is actually such that in those countries that have freer tax laws, among other things. Denmark, there are other ways to control the increase in tax revenue. This means that the negotiating system in Denmark is primarily motivated by ensuring that municipalities do not increase the tax. And the current government has for the first time, with regard to the introduction of tax freezes, also taken the consequences of the negotiating system and pulled municipalities into transfers because they have set up the tax. So it's not that it's just light blue sky over the arrangement in other countries. National authorities also need to monitor developments in the tax field there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1537	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1543	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘In Hedmark, as in the rest of the country, forced renovation has been introduced that works well for most, but for some, and especially lonely, who deliver very little garbage, this is a service that becomes very expensive and irritating compared to the small they deliver or need to deliver. What will the Council of State do to influence service providers into a more flexible and user-friendly system that can be adapted to individual user needs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1552	Under the pollution law, municipalities are responsible for collecting all waste from households. The costs incurred by local authorities in this respect shall be fully covered by a waste charge paid by subscribers and local authorities shall not be able to calculate their profits on this task. So the fee is to be paid for a service at cost. Municipalities have occasion and are encouraged by the Pollution Act to establish differentiated, different, fees to contribute to waste reduction and increased recovery. This can be done in different ways — through different fees depending on the size of the waste container, which many municipalities practice, or on how often the waste is collected, or by a system where the waste is collected by Weigh the subscriber by fetching. Such different fees are desirable for environmental reasons, and at the same time it will be more fair to those who produce little waste, especially older and lonely, on which the representative was involved. I primarily want municipalities to introduce such schemes on a voluntary basis, which is what more and more municipalities do. We don't have exact figures for this, but over half of the municipalities now have some kind of differentiation of the waste charges. And I'm assuming that even in the municipalities you think. I believe that municipal politicians are also concerned with minimising the waste burden. Environmental protection authorities are in the process of developing a revised guide on how municipalities are to set their waste fees. This guide will also address the possibilities for differentiated and different fees to stimulate waste reduction and increased recycling. I want to make sure that this guide gives a clear call for municipalities to put in place such schemes, so that they price their waste services in a flexible and user-friendly way. Where they don't, I actually recommend people to take it up with the local politicians. – It may be a good thing to travel in connection with the election campaign, for this determines the local government itself. Finally, I would like to point out that if, for social reasons, municipalities want to reduce the waste charge for some groups of the population, they have the opportunity to do so. In that case, this must be covered by the other budget of the municipality and no other waste subscribers should be charged.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1565	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was a good answer with an explanation of how the system works today. The question really is, are they, often lonely, pensioners who have no waste to minimize, they have so little waste to deliver. They have lived in a time when there was no use and cast-mentality, as today. And then it's clear that the answer to the government council is absolutely right, because we who live with usage and throwing, we have to minimize our waste, we have to sort the source, and we have to follow this up. But the question concerns those who have nothing to minimize – those who have so little garbage that when the garbage car comes in one, two, three or four times a month, they have nothing to deliver. It is for these that flexible arrangements must be made. That's what I'm asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1572	As I mentioned in my reply, these renovation fees are differentiated in a number of municipalities already. It may be through different fees, depending on the size of the waste container. If you have little trash, you can have a tiny small waste container, which can also be emptied less rarely. Some actually take and weigh by picking up. So here's a lot of opportunities for municipalities to build a robust system. But in order to take even more care of what the representative of Bredvold refers to, I would encourage the municipalities in this supervisor to describe how they think a differentiated system should be. It is then possible to put in place such schemes as to give a flexible and user-friendly price to their waste services, which I believe are also more appropriate to what Mr Bredvold refers to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1579	Then I think the Council of State has clarified what I was really looking for. I'm waiting with excitement on that supervisor, and I hope and believe that it will also take into account the minimum pensioners that this often applies, who have a very small garbage heap to deliver, to say it like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1586	The supervisor is important, but as I said, it is also a municipal responsibility for municipal politicians to design a system that is best suited to the challenges in their municipality. We cannot control everything from the staging room, and I have also understood that is not desirable, at least not from the Progress Party; they want more framework transfers and less earmarked funds. It is assumed that there is a lot of wisdom out there in local government as well. Compared to that of the elderly and the lonely and those who have very little waste, is perhaps a system of weighing by picking up the most tailor-made. But not all municipalities have it, and we can't force all municipalities to have it either. But I think there should be a difference between the payment and the size of the waste. It must also be that if you just get the trash once a month, you have to pay a lot less. It is very positive if you can also have flexibility in this system in relation to these three different solutions. But it must not be too bureaucratic, so it will be more expensive for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1593	Then we go back to question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1601	I have a question for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘It is intended that 25 pst. of the cod quotas for the vessel group 15 to 28 metres shall be taken after 1 September. This corresponds to 13000 tonnes. At the same time, we know that cod during this period is not on the coastal fishing grounds. This group of vessels normally land only 3000 to 4000 tonnes during this period, see. the landing statistics of the raw fish team; How does the Council of State view this issue, and how will it ensure that coastal fishermen are able to make use of their quotas when fish are in coastal areas?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1610	This year’s regulation of fishing for cod has been established in line with a unanimous recommendation from the Board of Regulators – a Board of Regulators composed of both representatives of the land and the sea. The recommendation meant that you would cancel 25 pst. of the group quotas for vessels between 15 and 28 metres for fishing after 1 September. It was a piece of advice I listened to, and I take full responsibility for the regulation. And then paradoxically, a record-breaking lavish fishing becomes a problem. Because cod fishing in winter has been exceptionally good, fishing for vessels between 21 and 28 metres was stopped on 9 March and vessels between 15 and 21 metres were stopped on 22 March. Until 1 September 2003, these vessels will not be able to operate a direct fishing operation of cod, but they may continue to fish for other species and may interfere with up to 10 pst. cod. In 2003, Norway has relatively large quotas of Norwegian Arctic sej and Norwegian Arctic hyse. When fishing for these species, there will be a non-negligible quantity of cod as a by-catch. We know that from experience. And the exact amount that quantity is, of course, hard to predict. But in order to ensure that the sieving and hoist quotas can be taken, we have to set aside a quantity of cod until the harvest. It's also good for this group that they're asked about here. In addition to ensuring the exploitation of sieving and hoisting quotas and preventing overfishing of the Norwegian total quota, we must not forget the needs of the agricultural industry. The agricultural industry is also an important part of the fishing industry, in line with the fleet – and an up-stream land industry is important both for fleets and for coastal employment. But if it's going to be an up-and-coming industry, it needs the supply of fish more than in some hectic months in winter. However, I can assure the representative of Bastesen that the development of cod fishing is accompanied by the eyes of the argus both from the department and from the directorate. There have been requests from various industry teams to change the cod regulation of the year so that more cod can be fished in the spring. In the control system 13 000 tonnes were set aside for fishing after 1 September for the fleet group between 15 metres and 28 metres. The Directorate's forecasts show that fishing in winter has been so good that only 8 000 tonnes remain. The period quotas for vessels between 15 metres and 28 metres are therefore actually overfished, and the fishing should have been stopped even earlier than that. In order to ensure that the Norwegian cod quota is not overfished, in order to ensure the quantity to cover cod caught by fishing for other species, and to ensure the supply of cod to the land industry from this fleet group in the autumn, there is therefore no basis for making changes to the regulation of cod fisheries this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1629	I have the following additional questions: the Minister for Fisheries is the top fishing authority in this country. He cannot shirk responsibility towards the Board of Regulators and the other organisations. We got the sea fishing fleet, and in that context the trawls, to assist the land industry. I am fully aware that the land industry needs raw materials. But the sea fishing fleet was to supply raw material that could be harvested. It is currently released and can fish its entire quota during the year. It is not permitted to deliver and harvest as it was before. The Minister of Fisheries is making a whole new point when he says that the coastal fleet should be the guarantor of the land industry. Has the Minister for Fisheries considered the withdrawal of the defined beam concessions?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1636	All experience shows that the sea fishing fleet through long - term agreements has a delivery pattern that supplies the industry with fish all year round. I don't want to be a part of exempting the coastal fleet from the same responsibility. I do not in any way deny my responsibility for the regulation that I have strongly underlined is my responsibility. But fishermen and the rural industry cannot deny their responsibility for giving me one piece of advice in December and give me the opposite advice over the course of the new year. I'm stuck with what we've done. Experience shows that there is now so little fish left in the harvest quota that there will be no risk that the quota will not be taken. I would like to remind you that, in the years 1997–2002, after 1 September, the catch has been between 6432 tonnes and 1067 tonnes. It shows that what is set aside for this group — only 3,091 tonnes remains — is no more than what is needed to keep the industry going. I have to say that solidarity is poor when we do not encourage the coastal fishermen in Finnmark to be able to participate in a fishing so that the industry there could have up-to-date jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1643	I have not received an answer to my question. I do not expect to get that either. It is common to fish 3000 to 4000 tonnes during this period, cf. the statistics of the raw fish team; We have 8,000 tons left to fish. The fish is to be fished. When the Minister for Fisheries will not respond to whether he has decided to withdraw the concessions, I assume that the fish that had to be left over from the coastal fleet will be fished by the same fleet that does not have the delivery conditions it had before. It is quite new in the fisheries context that the coastal fleet has become the guarantor that the land industry will receive raw material, when it was the sea fishing fleet that was the guarantor in its time when the concessions were awarded. Will the Minister for Fisheries continue to stand on this line?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1650	I have tried to explain that there is no basis for stopping the fishing. There's only 15 pst left. of the group quota. There are 3,091 tonnes of the quota remaining for the groups 21 to 28 metres. In recent years, it has been taken from 6,400 to 1000 tonnes. It shows that there's no more fish than you need to hurt yourself. With regard to the withdrawal of licences for the sea fishing fleet, there is no basis for that. I am a little surprised to see that from the Spokesman's chair you can demand that the Minister for Fisheries withdraw the licences for this fleet. But as I said, the delivery pattern for the sea fishing fleet shows that it contributes fish to the land industry all year round. I don't think it's too much for the coastal fleet to contribute. Many of us believe that the coastal fleet is the backbone of coastal communities. I intend to regulate it in such a way that it should still be able to be so.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1657	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-02.ana.ud2020e1668	There is no record.
