ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28-lower.ana.ud729e37	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28-lower.ana.ud729e46	All countries with a well-developed economy subject financial institutions to specific regulations, including: Our EEA obligations also indicate that there are rules on ownership control. These rules have important functions in terms of ensuring independent financial institutions, satisfactory competition and effective supervision. The new rules must take account of the same considerations. According to the current rules, no one can initially own more than 10 pst. of the shares of a Norwegian financial institution, but this is an important exception. The Government proposes to repeal the applicable rules and replace them with a discretionary system based on the EEA Banking and Insurance Directives. A broad majority, the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, support the proposal. The minority, which consists of the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, do not want, as far as I can see, any changes in today's rules, and in this area also want Norway to be different. I assume that they will explain their own vision. After the proposal, anyone who wishes to acquire more than 10 pst. by a financial institution, apply to the authorities in advance. The authorisation will be subject to a specific assessment of the suitability of the applicant in each case. In order to increase predictability, there is an agreement to legislate on some discretionary guidelines: whether the transferee is considered as an appropriate owner in the course of previous business activities, available financial resources and the consideration of sound business if the transferee is able to use his influence in the institution to obtain benefits for its own business or to exercise indirect influence over other business activities. This will, for example: be able to stop so-called private banking operations if the acquisition complies with the objective of a financial market based on competition between independent institutions if the ownership of the institution after acquisition would make effective supervision of the institution difficult; In addition, the Labour Party has proposed a fifth criterion, namely the need to legislate on the possibility of taking regional and regional policy considerations into account. Government parties see no reason to legislate on this, but stress that there is no obstacle to the authorities taking such considerations into account. It is important to have a Norwegian financial industry independent of individuals and other industries. There could be a ban on owning a controlling post. However, the majority agree with the Government that there is no need to have more stringent rules than that which can be achieved and that absolute rules could quickly lead to a wide range of derogations. A graduated discretionary system will therefore be the most accurate. In the case of acquisitions of more than 25 pst. the shareholders will be able to acquire some form of control over the institution. The majority therefore agree with the Government's proposal that more than 25 pst should be acquired. the shares, in addition to the four criteria mentioned above, shall also assess whether the acquisition can lead to structural development in the financial industry with undesirable effects on the scope of capital and credit markets. The majority also agree with the Government's proposal that the limits on reporting obligations be set at the acquisition of 10 pst., 20 pst., 25 pst., 33 pst., 40 pst. and 50 pst. that the obligation to notify applies to financial institutions in general and that rights of use and options are equivalent to the acquisition of shares. The majority of the Committee is also pleased that, in line with the EEA Directive, the Government proposes to legislate on an overall period of three months. The new rules on ownership will not apply to infrastructure companies which exchange and central securities. These institutions have such a dominant position in their fields that it is essential to ensure independence. The rules on ownership restrictions in force are closely related to other legislation, and the majority agree with the Government's proposals for some adaptations, inter alia. public offer shall be required also by the formation of insurance companies, to remove the specific limits on the voting rights of financial institutions, and to amend the general rules on the concession and the organisation of the financial group. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28-lower.ana.ud729e95	I can refer to the clear review by the case-speaker, and the Labour Party will join in the main thrust of the proposal before it. The objective of the Owners Demarcation Rules is to counteract cross-owner positions between individual institutions and the financial group and to ensure the independence of financial groups from other business. This is important to last, and there is also a wide agreement in the Committee. Then one can of course discuss which rules and instruments one should have in order to fulfill that purpose. Today's rules, where no one can initially own more than 10 pst. of the axes, also have important exceptions to the general rule. The main exception is that financial institutions can own 100 pst. by another financial institution. Unfortunately, we have seen a clear development in the financial industries towards larger central units, power concentration and foreign ownership. Against that background, I found it strange that the minority in the Committee claims that the current legislation ‘has worked as intended’. Current legislation has not been able to prevent Norwegian financial institutions from being bought in by foreign institutions. I can name Focus Bank, which was bought by the Danish Bank, the Bank of Nordea. It is that there will be advantages and disadvantages with both a system of forbidden zones and a discretionary system. However, a discretion-based system will be both more flexible and sometimes more accurate in relation to its purpose, its importance. The Labour Party is united with the Government. However, this has provided clear criteria and legal guidelines for the exercise of discretion. The proposal assumes that one must search the authorities for approval if one is to have a margin above 10 pst, and for the next 20 pst threshold. The emphasis here is on ownership, prudential and competition considerations. When more than 25 pst. is sought, which gives some form of control, there shall be significantly more stringent requirements in the exercise of discretion. This is the Workers' Party's agreement. Nevertheless, we believe that this does not go far enough in terms of regional and regional policy, and it should therefore be included as a legitimate legal criterion, in line with what the Ministry of Finance actually proposed as its own working group. It is necessary to take care of as much as possible of the banking and financial environment around the small areas of the country. We see how important it is today both for the business community and for the peasants. That is why, together with the SV, the Center Party and the Coastal Party, we propose to legislate on such a criterion. Although there will be the most clear criteria and legal guidelines, – as I said – discretion will be exercised. Whether the new legislation will be effective and work in line with its objective depends, of course, on the willingness to exercise and use the judgement and to reject the application for acquisition where it conflicts with the criterion and guidelines. There's insecurity here. But I think here is also the possibility of getting a system that works better than today's system when it's up to us all to do the purpose that we're all about. From the minority point of view, it is pointed out that in other countries with current discretionary laws, no refusal has been made. But the thing is, it's probably prejudicing, that those who don't have the ability to get through have clarified this in advance. They'll hardly make an application.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28-lower.ana.ud729e116	In the opinion of the SV, the 10 pst rule has been appropriate. It is clear that the 10 pst rule has not been in the way of changes in the Norwegian banking structure, but it has made it considerably more difficult, and it has been predictable which changes have been possible. The last time this rule was in use was in connection with DnB and Sampo. DnB, and not the Social Security Fund, blocked the purchase of the Storebrand, which was due to predictability and security of how this legislation was to be practised. If you agreed or disagree that Sampo was going to buy Storebrand, another discussion. The point is that there was a code that everyone knew was predictable and absolute. That's the advantage of a 10 pst. rule. You have to buy either up to 10 pst. or up to 100 pst. To make this work. This ensures a spread of ownership and a structure, at least to a certain extent, which otherwise would not have been there. However, it is clear that today’s legislation has also not prevented a significant change in the ownership structure of the banking and financial sector over a long period of time, and SV agrees that this must, of course, be possible at all times. The weakness of the system established here is, in my opinion, primarily that it is discretionary, because neither the industry nor anyone else knows what the judgement should be. There is every reason to believe that this judgement will be practiced in the same way that this judgement is practiced in Sweden. And in reply to a letter to the Minister of Finance of the SV Group of 29 April, it says: ‘It is stated orally from the Swedish Financial Inspectorate that, as far as they can recall, they have not had cases in which the applicant has been refused an application for the acquisition of holdings in financial institutions.’ If the judgement is to be practised in such a way that it will never be used for refusal, it will in practice be that one opens a door and does not intend to close it at any time. The system of 10 pst. rule has been a predictable system in which everyone knows the rules of the game, and it has been a great advantage. This legislation is also non-discriminatory, and it is a regulation which the Department's own working group, expert group, actually recommended. They recommended a prohibition system rather than a discretionary system, simply because the predictability of this is much better. The system we have today is also likely to be in line with the EEA legislation to which we are subject. That means, then, that there is no reason why discrimination exists. Equal treatment for all is also in this system. This means that both foreign and Norwegian actors have to deal with the same system, and that is also the way it is. There have been doubts about this, but in the investigation that the Ministry of Finance itself has made, a legal opinion has been received from Professor Müller-Graff at the University of Heidelberg. This is also shown in the NOU following the option. He says that it is not given without saying that Norway will lose. In that case, it would mean that if a case was brought against Norway on the basis that today's 10 pst. rule was discriminatory, it would in the worst case be that we lost, and then you had to put in place a system of what you have today. But today's system is obviously much better, I think, for most actors in this market, because it's predictable, and predictability within this industry is actually quite important, this looking up to a discretion-based system, which most people warn against, and which the ministry for some strange reason thinks is a better system. As far as I am able to register, there is also no massive demand from the financial industry as such to get this change in the legislation. Most actors have known about these rules and that they have been there for all years. That means, as far as I know, that some people have wanted this, but there is no massive requirement to change this legislation. Nor was the background for the proposed change required by the financial industry’s stakeholder organisation. The background was that doubts were raised from the EFTA Surveillance Authority as to whether this was contrary to EEA legislation, i.e. the EEA Agreement, by which we are obliged. And the investigation that came after this, concluded that yes, maybe, but probably not. The investigation by Professor Müller-Graff – as I have pointed out – concludes that it is probably entirely permissible for Norway to continue today’s legislation. That means that I think the reason for making these changes is weak, and I think that the financial industry itself actually sees that today's system is better, because then you have a more predictable system to deal with. It's going to be very interesting to see how this system is practiced. If the practice of the Norwegian system will be similar to what we have seen in many other countries, which have a discretion-based system, that means that you actually say yes to everything. It'll mean an egg concentration that's unfortunate. We already see strong ownership concentration in banking and finance. This will mean further centralisation and ownership concentration of these industries, which, in my opinion, are to the disfavor of Norway. I believe that today's system, today's legislation, is an appropriate and good system. That is why we have not promoted divergent proposals in this position, simply because we would like to oppose it, because we believe that today's legislation is appropriate and good.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28-lower.ana.ud729e143	Well-functioning financial institutions are almost indispensable in a modern society. Both in business, in public administration and in the individual economy, these institutions play a central role. Difor is social control and social surveillance of this industry so important. Odelsting has today been invited to take decisions that will replace today's prohibition-based system of owner control with a system based on discretionary assessments on a case-by-case basis. This allows for a more individual assessment of both competitive conditions and the freedom of action of the institution, etc. in the various situations. I'm so glad that these changes seem to collect a wide variety of numbers. There is one point I want to mention in particular, and that concerns the question of whether to legislate for regional and regional policy purposes as an own assessment criterion. The government party has chosen not to go into the legal setting of such a criterion. Now, of course, one might try to make a rhetorical point of this and present it as if we were opposed to such an assessment, but it would be quite meaningless. When we don't go in for the legalization of this criterion, it comes in, among other things. because the more points are listed, the easier it is to postulate that anything that is not specifically mentioned should not be evaluated either. The second is that the bill states that the King can lay down additional guidelines for the execution of the shell. It may be wise to wait and see what happens before adding any additional criteria. Finally, to remove any trace of any doubt as to what government party means about this, I will refer to our special note, which reads as follows: ‘The members of the Committee of the Right, Christian People’s Party and the Left will stress that although regional and regional policy considerations are not legalised as a basis for assessment, there is no obstacle to the authorities’ ability to emphasise such considerations in a specific case.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28-lower.ana.ud729e159	The centre party will oppose the lifting of today's ownership rules. We believe that the so-called prohibition-based legislation, with its 10 pst. rule, has – and would have – worked better than the alternative discretion-based regime that the majority will adopt here today. In our view, the provisions of the law have been clear in relation to two criteria, namely the need for competition in the financial market and predictability. In practice, too, the law has helped to prevent and/or mitigate the trend towards power concentration and monopoly in the financial sector. An illustrative example here is the Minister of Finance's refusal to focus Bank's application for BNbank. Another example is the DnB's blocking of Sampos' attempts to take over Storebrand. When the law has not provided even clearer evidence, this is primarily due to a lack of political will to follow up clear decisions in the Stortingen on the banking structure. In 1997, the Stortinget examined a proposal from the Steensnæs representative. The majority of the Finance Committee joined his and Christian People's Party's proposal that the Government should, as it says, ‘approve strict practice of the rule of ownership in the Finance Act, etc. in order to ensure satisfactory banking services and necessary competition in the Norwegian financial market through a network of national, regional and locally anchored financial institutions’. Now the party has turned its heels. The official motivation for replacing the prohibition-based legislation with a discretion-based law is probably due to the EEA Agreement, or more precisely: scepticism as to whether Norway would have won a case of the 10 pst. rule of the EFTA Court. Ironically, a legal evaluation concludes that the outcome of such a case must be assessed as transparent. In clear terms: the new law probably represents an unnecessary EU adaptation – it should be. More importantly, judgement-based legislation is less likely to counteract monopolistic trends and lower the level of competition in the financial sector. The main requirement that potential purchasers be judged on an appropriate basis may in practice result in a higher concentration in the industry. A similar system in Sweden has resulted in no refusal of buying-in applications. As in many other areas, Sweden is also here a country to which we can compare and not least learn from. The most striking feature of the concept of predictability is the neutral application of the word: given a general consideration of predictability, it follows that one reform after another should be implemented. The question is: is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is More specifically, does a discretionary system increase predictability for financial sector actors? In isolation, judgement creates associations other than predictability — as opposed to prohibition. In any case, discretionary considerations open up to more doubt and belief, despite the specified discretionary guidelines. The central party believes that it is unwise to introduce laws whose enforcement to a greater extent than before, typically, will depend on political will, and in particular the willingness to take and stand for decisions that are perceived as unpopular by strong participations. A parallel can be drawn here to the replacement of the concession laws with the discretionary law on acquisition – Stoltenberg’s law of comfort, as it was in its time characterised as. As is known, it was lifted in 2002, against the votes of the Centre Party, the Workers’ Party and the SV, without preventing a single sale of enterprises and banks to the rest of the world. Let me briefly sum up: the budget will now repeal a law that has worked well and has also had broad parliamentary support. The alternative is a regulatory framework that will be less suitable to achieve objectives that a broad majority have considered important.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28-lower.ana.ud729e181	The regulatory time for tomorrow's meeting is up. The President will propose that the meeting continue until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Then the President will add one thing: today it is difficult for the representatives to book their tickets, and the President will request that access to a line after the Council of State, which was adopted, if possible not used, to save some time. It'll help someone in this hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28-lower.ana.ud729e186	I'll try to take due account of that. I would just like to repeat, for the sake of order, to the last speaker, that the abolished acquisition law did not apply to financial institutions, so right here it is not relevant. But it is true that all countries with a well-developed economy have special rules for who can own financial institutions. This is because such institutions have a specific role in the social economy and are therefore to be guaranteed independence. When the government proposed changes at this point, it was not on the grounds that there was a massive demand from the industry. Nor was it on the grounds that we, for example, did we. obviously would lose a case before the EFTA Court, but on the basis of an independent assessment of today’s rules, which had worked for almost 15 years, an evaluation and a revision of the rules as markets and regulatory developments have changed internationally was natural. So I want to underline it. In fact, the government makes independent assessments and not just yields for business pressures or other pressures. Today's rules are prohibition-based. The new rules are more discretionary, but contain criteria for discretion that mainly follow the rules in force in different EU countries. We therefore believe that in this way we will have a more modern and adapted regulatory framework, which will work well. So, the question of whether to include the criterion of territorial and regional importance. I would remind you that there is no independent criterion in today's legislation, which also embraces the minority, but that does not prevent such criteria from being applied, and they have been established. After all, it is not at least part of the competitive considerations that need to be taken, that no regional situations are established which make competition worse, during any criticism. I would like to add that in some of today's newspapers there is a rather powerful statement by Hydro's Director on the Norwegian market as such, as he perceives as being political, in an unfortunate way, that it prevents investment. I will leave that comment, but just apply it to the financial market area, i.e. Norwegian financial group, banks, insurance companies and others. I would also like to stress that there is no need to give similar characteristics in the field of the financial industry. We will now have legislation that is international, and I believe that we have legislation that is very much in line with that in other Western countries today. We have features of foreign and national ownership in a good mixed relationship, which are largely not influenced by any form of protectionism. As several speakers have pointed out, we have large banks with their main seats in other Nordic countries. We have large Norwegian units – perhaps we get bigger too – and we also have a very well-functioning local market, partly based on the savings banking system, but also smaller commercial banks. This is a diversity that gives a pretty good access to good and varied credit ratings. I would like to stress that my impression is that foreign markets – European institutions and the governments of other countries – also eventually see this as a good market, which is to a large extent internationally comparable to some of the best even beyond the borders of Norway. It's important to stress, because it can give you, eventually, the praise of Norwegian financial institutions in line with what should be real values, that is, higher than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28-lower.ana.ud729e203	But it's going to be a line chord shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28-lower.ana.ud729e206	I'm sorry, but that's what the Minister of Finance said now, which made it necessary for me to take a line. I agree with the Minister of Finance that we have a good financial industry. It's evolved under the 10 pst rule. The Minister of Finance boasts about the Norwegian financial industry as a non-protectionist industry, and this has happened with the legislation we are removing today. It means that everything he boasts about this industry, and it can certainly be nice for the industry to boast, has happened with today's legislation. It's important to underline. Let me also say, since the Minister of Finance chooses to draw this out, that when Eivind Reiten in the newspapers chooses to say what he says, it gets paid for by Eivind Reiten. As far as SVs is concerned, and I hope that is also true for the other parties, I hope that the Stortinget has still intended to engage in the country it is actually set to rule. It concerns business, housing, workplaces, value creation — all of this that is important for us to live in a good country. That Eivind Reiten believes that politics should act in relation to a company that has actually lived by political goodwill from day one is completely incomprehensible to me. I will not take that into account in this debate, but it was an important indication to the Minister of Finance that the Norwegian financial industry has lived by the 10 p.m. rule for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28-lower.ana.ud729e218	The Minister of Finance is aware that it has lived for a long time and in part well, and that it has evolved well. I think it is nice that the praise that I gave to the finance industry and the Norwegian structure is also shared by SV. It can guarantee a quite significant width. However, I do have the basic view that legislation that has worked for 15 years, one year, ten years or 20 years is not necessarily a good regulation for the future – so I am not conservative.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28-lower.ana.ud729e223	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28-lower.ana.ud729e231	The Odelstinget will then go to voting in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28-lower.ana.ud729e238	During the debate, Mr Rudihagen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, put forward the proposal contained in the vote on page 25.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28-lower.ana.ud729e265	The Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party have announced that they are going against the second paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28-lower.ana.ud729e324	The Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28-lower.ana.ud729e364	The Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party have announced that they are moving towards the third and fourth sentences of the first paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28-lower.ana.ud729e470	The Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28-lower.ana.ud729e593	The Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28-lower.ana.ud729e605	The President here will vote on the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party to Section 2-3, second paragraph, new point (e). The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Act on Financial Activities and Financial Institutions, the new point (e) of the second paragraph of Section 2-3 shall be replaced by the following:(e) the acquisition may lead to undesired structural development of the financial industry in districts and regions with a dispersed residence or business life, assessed in accordance with the needs of businesses and consumers for access to financial services from financial environments with the necessary proximity and competence.’;» [[the Financial Activities Act;]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28-lower.ana.ud729e815	Here the President will draw attention to a correction in the legislative text concerning Sections 2 to 4 and 2 to 5, which shall read as follows: ‘Sections 2 to 4 shall be deleted.’; ‘Articles 2 to 5, first paragraph, shall be deleted; The current second paragraph becomes the first paragraph.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party have announced that they are moving towards the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28-lower.ana.ud729e847	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28-lower.ana.ud729e857	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28-lower.ana.ud729e868	There is no record.
