ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e115	The representatives of Ågot Valle, Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken and Åge Konradsen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Four permit applications are available: from the Christian People's Party Group on Welfare Permit of the Representative Dagrun Eriksen from 25 February onwards and until further notice from the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo on Welfare Permit from 25 February to 5 March from the Workers' Party Group on Health Permit of the Representative Eva M. Nielsen from 25 February onwards and until further notice from the representative André Kvakkestad on Permit of the Days 26 and 27 February to attend the meeting of the Refugee Committee of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Geneva On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened for a meeting of the term of leave: For the West Agder County: Sigmund Kroslid For Akershus County: Harald EspelundFor the Finnmark County: Kirsti Saxi and Alf E. Jakobsen3. Sigmund Kroslid is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Dagrun Eriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e177	Sigmund Kroslid, Kirsti Saxi and Alf E. Jakobsen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e182	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e187	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e192	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e200	The representative, Henrik Red, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e204	On behalf of Per Erik Monsen, Øyvind Korsberg, Øyvind Waksdal and myself, I have delighted to make suggestions to evaluate the effect of the hydrofluoro/perfluorocarbon tax [[HFC/PFC charge]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e209	The representative of Mr Kjetil Bjørklund will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e212	On behalf of the representative Bjørn Jacobsen and myself, I would like to propose clearer guidelines for situations in which Norwegian soldiers are placed under the command of other countries in international military operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e217	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e231	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right, Advance Party and Socialist Left Party 15 minutes each, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e242	The challenges of the preservation of Norwegian wild breeds are many and complex. Some threats to the wild are man-made, others are natural and with great variations. Therefore, it is natural that there will be fluctuations in the number of Norwegian wild axes. There are some measures we can take to improve the situation. Therefore, the measures we are taking to strengthen the wild species should be concrete, targeted and transparent in order to easily measure the impact of the measures taken. One of the measures already being taken is the control of Gyrodactylus salaris. I am pleased that we in the Progress Party during the consideration of the Ministry of the Environment’s budget were able to increase that item by 5 million. kr in the autumn. I think it is important to follow up the Directorate of Natural Management's Action Plan for the control of gyro and to be willing to take the necessary promise, with approx. Thirty million. kr per. years in a 10-year period. I think it's important to get these measures started quickly, as you per. Today, 27 rivers are infected by gyro. It also represents a significant socio-economic loss of about 200 to 300 million. kr per. years. If there is a crisis in the wild, as some claim, I am a little surprised that the government parties and the Workers' Party do not support the proposal that lies here today, to ask the Government to come up with a time and funding plan already in the context of the revised national budget on combating gyro. Another important measure for the wild species is the control of salmonids and the high salmonid concentrations in some areas. At the same time, it is important to remember that salmon sauce is a natural part of the salmon life cycle. An overall committee is in favour of the work undertaken by the industry and the authorities through the national action plan against lice in salmon. We have also recorded the good effect of the so-called ‘trown layer model’. That model may need to be introduced in other parts of the country where this is necessary. It is also important that the remedial measures are synchronised and that more research is provided to maximise and optimise the impact of the measures taken. In our view, the introduction of national salmon fjords and other territorial protection is not a positive thing with regard to the salmon turf problem. Since the protection leads to the movement of plants further off the coast, there may be more lice due to the fact that there is less fresh water than one has further into a fjord system. There may also be more evacuation of farmed salmon due to the extension of facilities. They are more exposed to a harsher climate in terms of wind, weather and power conditions. So with the introduction of soil protection, you can risk damaging the wild species, and that's what I think is worrying. One of the factors affecting the wild species is escaped farmed salmon. The Committee is concerned about the figures presented. So last year, 630,000 salmon and trout escaped, and that's clearly too much. Here the industry has a job to do, because these numbers have to and have to go down. And you don't get any more amusing when you read what's in the newspaper Fisherman 21 February, a few days ago, that so far, 160,000 salmon and trout are escaped this year. Clearly, these figures are worrying. Here the industry has to do something, and it's pretty fast. Therefore, it is important to ensure these installations. I am pleased that there will be new regulations during the year, which will set a technical standard for installations to bring down, among others. the number of escaped farmed salmon. I am also pleased that all existing installations will be improved during 2008. Similarly, I am pleased that the industry is going to introduce an accident commission. The introduction of such a Commission will also allow for further improvements in the experience gained by such a Commission, and the knowledge acquired can also be used to adopt new requirements as new knowledge is acquired. I am also pleased that we have received a majority in favour of proposals for decisions on the protection of propellers on boats in contact with farms, and only with that measure will it be possible to reduce the evacuation cases a good deal. One of the proposals for measures adopted by the majority of the Committee is to require the labelling of farmed salmon. It is now the case that this with the labelling of farmed salmon is currently under investigation and the decision-making basis is to be available during the year. But at the same time, a majority is in favour of imposing on the farming industry the labelling of farmed salmon. I find it strange that especially the government parties will not in a way await their own investigation, but will impose labelling regardless of the cost to the farming industry. In our view, it must be better, if necessary, to use these funds to secure the facilities than to spend this money on the labelling of salmon. If you introduce a labelling system, that means that you also have to impose fines on those who get rid of farmed salmon, and they haven't written anything much about it in their comments. But it's clear that that's what's torn behind the mirror. I think you have to focus on putting in place the measures that are necessary to reduce the number of escaped farmed fish first and foremost. In 1989 temporary protection zones for salmonids were introduced and the scheme was intended to last for five years. It's been 13 years since the arrangement with temporary hedged zones was established, and we still have them. Now they're being properly removed this time on proposals from the government parties and the Workers' Party, but it's really just a change of name. Because it's going to be exactly the same protection rules, but only with a new name, and it's quite creatively done, but it doesn't have any practical significance. The introduction of protection zones and land protection, as has been done, is based on the precautionary principle. You don't have any knowledge. So after 13 years of temporary fused zones, you haven't gained any knowledge, so here you do some grips that are pretty interesting. You should adapt the protection – at least have some knowledge when you do – and you don't. A long process has been carried out in the case of national salmon fjords. The Rieber-Mohn Committee came in its position in 1999 with proposals for salmon fjords and fjord systems. The Stoltenberg government came with a different variant, the Bondevik government with a third and the Stortinget today with a fourth – with some border adjustments. Nothing is based on scientific facts, it's about politics and political horse trafficking. I'm sorry about that. The majority in this setting has protected so much that district Norway is hit – by preventing the farming industry from obtaining the required land for both a local and a national value creation. It is quite surprising that, in many debates, the Progress Party is faced with the fact that we do not have a district policy. It is we who have district policy! We want to facilitate the operation of the farming industry within an environmentally sound framework. But it doesn't want the population. One wants passive land protection – to force away the farming industry, with the value creation and the badly needed jobs it would have provided very many local coastal communities. I'd like to mention just one example, The Female in Troms. There's a salmon eel that gives 300 kilos of salmon a year. It has not been the safe zone, and it has not been in the Villeks Committee's setting. Now, all of a sudden, it's come. I would like to hear the reasons for the government parties and the Workers' Party for why this fjord has been protected. It's going to be pretty interesting to hear. I refer to the proposals on which the Progress Party is alone, and the proposals on which the Progress Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e270	Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestions to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e275	The party of progress stands out in this room. They differ in a negative way, both in this matter and in environmental policy in general. Every time reality gets too uncomfortable, the Progress Party chooses to close its eyes and say it's not true. We have experienced it for a long time in climate policy, and we are now experiencing it in the wild. The rapporteur, Mr Korsberg, apparently states that the Progress Party will be involved in measures that will improve the protection of the wild species. However, when they go against the main measures, namely to protect the habitats of salmon through the establishment of national salmon fjords, their policies are not credible. We all agree that farming is important. However, the farming industry must also take its share of the responsibility for the threat to the wild species. This is not what the Progress Party will take inwards. Instead, they choose a barrel and drive policy, where the farming industry is given full entitlement to drive. My challenge to the representative of Korsberg is: Does the Progress Party – through its policy – want to face the descendants and say that they chose a tough and driving policy, where farming industries would have full driving power, that it was not important to take care of biodiversity and the wildness of our rivers? Is it the case that the interests of large capital are to completely outperform the potential for industrial development in our rivers and in other urban communities? Is the farming industry to be fully entitled to the right to drive in this matter – rather than the environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e286	At least it's possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. I just want to point out what a unanimous committee says in its comments on conditions affecting wild salmon: ‘Growth conditions in the Atlantic — natural variations’. This is related to temperature, etc. And with how much fish swim there, and that have salmon on the menu. And on the other hand, ‘ Acidification of watercourses due to acid rain.’ We're fighting an eternal battle to get the chance to lime the watercourses where it's necessary. No matter what government it is that has power, you cut into these budgets. It also applies to worker party governments. Hydropower expansion affects the wild axis. But now the bulk of the population have said quite clearly from the end of the large expansions of hydropower, so there are hardly any new measures. But at least you've gained a lot of knowledge about how to take care of the salmon in the watercourses you're building out. You have Gyrodactylus, who lives in fresh water. At least you can't blame the farming industry very much for that. It's probably more imprudent of those who travel in the various watercourses, spreading the infection. You have salmonnus – a completely natural thing. But in some areas, the farming industry is producing more salmonnus than is normal, and here you can do something to combat it. The evacuation of farmed salmon is clearly a responsibility of the farming industry and should and should be addressed by the farming industry. You have other physical interference in watercourses, and you have tax. In other words, there are many factors that affect the wild species, not just the farming industry, that a hostile businessman Gunn Karin Gjul is in charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e307	The representative of Korsberg pointed out quite correctly that escaped farmed salmon is one of the main problems in relation to the wild species. He came up with a number of measures that were taken, including: the new rules on requirements for rams, an accident commission and propeller protection. The issue of labelling is not as common to the representative. Clearly, the escape of farmed salmon is environmental crime in relation to the wild species. Normally, the Progress Party is very concerned that crime is going to be hit hard. My question to the representative of Korsberg will then be: why does this principle not also apply to environmental crime for the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e314	It's absolutely right that escaped farmed salmon is unfortunate, and that it's kind of environmental crime. But we are working on an investigation into the labelling of farmed salmon, and we think it is right to await that investigation. I am a little surprised that the government parties will not wait until that investigation is completed, which will come in the course of the year. Because then you will be able to assess all possible considerations that you have to take on such a matter. One is who is responsible for the costs. If it's the farming industry that's going to do that, at least we need to know what the price will be before imposing such a cost on the farming industry. The second is what type of marking you're going to have. The third is that we have to take animal ethics into account, that is, how the salmon reacts to such a marking. It also applies to the type of marking you have. We're not rejecting it, but we're going to wait for the investigation to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e319	It's kind of funny that Lenin's theories at these times have once again got a new spring with Carl I. Hagen in the head, where the cover of "useful idiots" is used against a party that at least according to the polls represents a majority of the Norwegian people when it comes to war resistance. My question is just related to this theory that Lenin had in his time. What you're experiencing in this case is that the Progress Party at point after point puts on layers with FHL, that is, the Breeding Industry. When it comes to the labelling of farmed salmon, which the representative Meling just picked up, the Progress Party will wait and see, and then come back to it. So while one of the governments says this must happen, the Progress Party is expected. As correctly pointed out, the Progress Party is always concerned that when it comes to people, one must find the guilty and punish them. But when it applies to this field right here, it's not that important. The representative of Korsberg himself said that 630,000 farmed salmon escaped last year, and 160,000 have already escaped this year. He informed the Storting about that. Nevertheless, it is not important to label farmed salmon, so that you can punish any wrongdoers. The lot of progress will not actually have any land protection, because it can limit the activity of the farming industry. Nor will they support the professionally based proposal that is actually. They're talking about a lack of research in the field, but they're cutting themselves in the research budget. My question to Korsberg is: is it so that the Progress Party is ‘useful idiots’ for the aquaculture industry in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e333	The President is thought to be very careful to introduce the kind of debate technique that you use outside this hall into this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e336	I do not intend to put myself on the low level imposed by the representative of Langeland in this matter. I think it's well done to drag both Lenin and to the extent that Carl I. Hagen into a debate on the wilderness axis. It's not like we're necessarily on the FHL, the aquaculture industry. But we take into account the recordings they make, just as SV takes into account the recordings they get from all the state-aided nature protection organisations that run an active lobbying activity here in the house. It is not right when the representative Langeland says that 630,000 salmon have escaped. Of the 630,000 farmed fish that escaped last year, 200,000 were trout. As I started by saying in response to the reply from the representative Gunn Karin Gjul, you have to have several thoughts in your head at the same time. This is an industry that represents an enormous amount of value creation in District Norway. It is also a major industry in national value creation. In a lot of party speeches it is said that this industry is going to take over after the oil and gas adventure. What conditions should we facilitate for this industry? Had I thought that soil protection was the way to go to secure the wild axis, we would have done so. But there's no sign of it. There have been 13 years of temporary protection zones, which are land protection. The ministry writes in a letter that no experience has been gained. Introducing more land protection is not the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e346	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e349	When we are dealing with this matter today, we have taken an important step towards strengthening the protection of the wild species. Today, when we are in favour of the creation of 37 national salmon rivers and 21 national salmon fjords, and at the same time require the implementation of round 2 in 2004–2005, this is because the wild species needs special protection. During the last three decades, the incidence of wild Atlantic salmon has been reduced by 75 pst. global. Unfortunately, the Norwegian incidences have not fallen so much, but the wild species are also threatened in Norway. About 50 populations are eradicated, and one third of the 525 populations that are left are either threatened or vulnerable. The Norwegian wild species therefore needs to be taken care of, both because it itself is threatened, and also because Norway’s relative share of wild salmon has increased globally, because it is even more weakened in countries other than Norway. In addition, the Norwegian wild axis has great genetic diversity and diversity, because it retains watercourses and fjords scattered along the coast. Norway therefore has a special international responsibility for preserving wild salmon. It is positive that we have reached a compromise between the government parties and the Labour Party in this matter. Through this compromise, the wild axis has received a stronger protection than that contained in St.prp. No Seventy-nine. We believe it is important that, in this compromise, we reintroduce that in some of the fjords there should be a ban on salmon farming, not just saying no to new activities, as the Government suggested. We believe it is important to maintain that in some national salmon fjords it should actually not be farming. In the compromise, we are in favour of 13 fjords becoming prohibitive zones, while in the eight others we follow the regime of the Government, which says no to new breeding activities. As part of the compromise, we're going to move the boundaries a little bit into some of the salmon fjords. In summary, there is a stronger protection, but in some cases the limit has been put a little further into the fjord than the government provided. At the same time – and it is important for us in the Workers' Party – we say that when the Government terminates the temporary protection zones, as they proposed in the proposal, they must nevertheless refrain from awarding new concessions for Anadrom food fish in these areas before the Storting has completed phase 2. We assume that the work on the overall watercourse and protection plan for watercourses is being done as foreseen and that the completion of national salmonwaters and salmon fjords can be carried out in 2004–2005. We look forward to that treatment, and expect the government through that work to provide the necessary protection for the wild species. It is no secret that the industry has strongly protested against the introduction of national salmon fjords and salmon rivers, despite the fact that the industry’s representative in the Rieber-Mohn Committee was in favour of it. The industry has highlighted that measures can be implemented instead of protection. I don't think it's about either – or, it has to be a boat – and. The working party is therefore pleased that the Government of the process has committed itself more strongly to measures against escape and measures against the salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris. We expect the government to follow this up, and we expect the industry to take an active responsibility. Salmon farming has become a major industry, and the breeding of cod, shellfish, halibut and turbot, to name a few species, can provide the basis for many jobs in the districts to come. But if we're going to do that, we have to make sure that Norwegian farming has a good reputation out there. Unfortunately, we have seen tragic events in which dead fish are dumped, with the dangers of spreading disease that it entails. Unfortunately, we have seen that the number of escapes has increased in 2002. It's not a development we can accept. I think it is good that the government parties in the vote have a more ambitious policy on escape. In the option, there is a broad majority, all except the Advance Party, who advocates a zero vision against escape. We have recently had the communication on the marine environment at the hearing of the Committee. FHL emphasised that Norway is marketing itself with clean nature and clean seas. Today, we experience that the forest industry is in favour of increased forest protection, because it sells its products to countries where buyers are committed to environmental trustworthiness. Developments in salmon and other farmed fish may also be rapid. Then the industry has to go ahead. I hope so, and I hope that through the final reading in 2004–2005 and through active action in the coming years, we will be able to give the wild species greater protection, for the sake of wild fauna, for the sake of industry and not least for the sake of future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e368	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e371	I'll start by quoting a little bit from Innst. S. No 168 for 1999-2000 on protection and use in the coastal zone, which was dealt with here in the room in 2000. There, the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right writes in their comments that they: «considers it important that all aspects of the coastal protection plan be illuminated. The majority indicate that the aquaculture industry has significant development and market potential. The industry has a major impact on the Norwegian economy and district development. The majority point to the fact that more coastal communities today depend entirely on the farming industry, and dependence is likely to increase in the coming years’. In addition, it says: ‘A further positive development of the industry will include: depend on availability at appropriate sea volume/area.’;» Then I have to ask the representative Konglevoll the question: what will the Workers' Party do to maintain this objective that I referred to? I would also like to ask the question: what is the professional justification for the border adjustments made by the Workers' Party? Why is it that some farms have come outside the zone, while others have come within the zone? And I showed in my article to the Queen, as an example. I asked for a reason as to why the Queen has ended up in the protective regime to which it is added. Finally, it is stated in IV of the proposal for a decision at the Innst. S. No 134 that ‘a reasonable compensation must be granted to owners of rearing facilities which have to move out’. Then I – and certainly the owners – want to know in clear text what this means.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e388	Firstly, I would like to say that the Labour Party and the Progress Party and a broad majority here on the Stortinget agree that farming is an important industry, that farming has a high potential. The working party has a high level of involvement for both the breeding industry and the development of the marine industry in general. That is why we believe that, among other things: in matters dealt with in e.g.: Whereas the Liaison Committee must cooperate with the public and private sector in this field; We must have an active industrial policy in relation to farming, including: through the cod bet provided by the Stoltenberg Government, with its main seat in Tromsø. But at the same time, in this case, just as the representative of the Progress Party said several times, one must have two thoughts in his head at once. It is therefore necessary to have measures to protect the wild species against the threat it is currently exposed to, precisely in view of the fact that the wild species is also a genetic resource for salmon farming in the future. In the case of Kvänangselva and Kvänangen, as specifically asked by the representative Korsberg, the Kvänanang has been proposed for the sake of the salmon population in Kvänangselva, because it is important that there is a link between salmon watercourses and salmon fjords. Kvänangselva is a small salmon watercourse, which is not affected by interference today, and the entire watercourse is part of Protection Plan II for watercourses. There is some justification for their being proposed as national salmon fjords and national salmon waters in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e395	I would like to ask about the problem settings associated with the Villaks Selection option, for the Villaks Selection was known to protect 50 watercourses and nine salmon fjords. The selection was almost co-consulted here. Later, 12 organisations plus the European environmental movement have joined what is in the Villaks Selection settings. But it is only SV who today express the views that Environment Norway and Europe feel are necessary to take care of the wild. In January 2000, the then Prime Minister candidate Stoltenberg was strongly out there criticising the Bondevik I government for not taking good care of the wild. Today, we find that the Workers' Party is making a settlement with the Government, where an actual incentive to weaken the Government's own message about this. Based on the results, such as: The Labour Party came with them when they were in opposition, there is a basis for asking questions as to whether the Labour Party here is in favour of the need of the wild race, and what the Villaks Committee pointed out, not least against the international commitments we have under the Berne and Rio Conventions and the NASCO. My question is: is it the reconciliation that the Labour Party and the Government have found out, necessary to do what Stoltenberg said in 2000, that is to say, the future of the wild beast and ensure that we keep our international obligations?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e404	It was the Workers' Party that in its time put down the Villaks Committee, and former workers' party governments have had this matter in thorough judgment. The Stoltenberg government presented a draft consultation, which unfortunately became somewhat weakened by what the government Bondevik presented. We have been working on this matter based on the draft consultation of the Stoltenberg administration. We have negotiated with the Government, and we are today pleased that there has been a stronger protection of the wild axis in this setting than the Bondevik government and the State Council Børge Burnde provided. We think it is positive for the wild species, both because we have received prohibitive zones in several places, and because we have received clear assurances regarding measures, for example. the standard requirements for rearing facilities and, in particular: escape. We believe overall that the wild axis is coming out better today than it could have been. We're happy that the government is in on it. We also want to stress that this is leading to a round number. 2 must be able to be ready quickly. It's also a work we're looking forward to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e416	Very many central hearing bodies, e.g. The peasants, DN, the Hunters' and Fishers' Association, etc., strongly opposed the lifting of the temporary protection zones. The government also proposed to keep them until the protection round No. 2nd@item: inlistbox I guess the villa selection meant something else, but it's now. Some of the temporary hedged zones may be used to convert into national salmon fjords in two years. Such an extension of these fused zones would not have done so much when they have already been there for 13 years. They have, after all, existed since 1989. I believe that the Workers' Party wants to appear as busy with the wild game. My question is therefore: Why will the Workers' Party not maintain the temporary protection zones until the second round of protection is completed? Would it not seem to be winged and unforeseeable to remove the protection zones now, in order to return within a short time and, where appropriate, to convert the same areas into national salmon fjords?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e425	It was the way the Center Party probably got along, that the industry was very critical of the temporary fused zones. In this way we can say that we have removed them, but we have also been given to prohibitive zones, which we believe was important to achieve in this matter. In addition, if the purpose of continuing the temporary hedged zones for two years is to avoid the establishment of farming facilities there, we have achieved this setting because we have a decision to be taken today, which states that no concessions should be granted in those areas until round No. 2 in place. I therefore think that we have found a good solution to that particular question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e430	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e434	Today, we will adopt a number of measures to protect the wild species. I am very pleased that the government parties and the Workers' Party came up with a settlement to ensure that the remaining Norwegian wild breeds can be continued. The background of the proposals in St.prp. No 79 and in the setting from the government parties and the Workers' Party, about 50 salmon populations have been eradicated, and one third of the remaining 525 Norwegian populations are threatened or vulnerable. Extermination has taken place from the 1800s until today and is due, among other things, to: acid rain, watercourse regulation and salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris. The Villax represents large national values, both as a regional nutrient base and as a genetic resource for the farming industry. In addition, in Norway, we have a special responsibility to preserve the Norwegian salmon strains because the Atlantic salmon strains that had their domiciles in other countries are significantly reduced and partly eradicated. Although it has been clearly demonstrated that there are many conditions that currently affect the wild species, with some natural variations, it is clearly demonstrated that the farming industry can have a significant negative impact on the development of the wild species. Therefore, in order to assess measures to ensure the remaining Norwegian wild species, it is necessary to look at the living conditions of the wild species, while ensuring that the farming industry can continue to be a significant producer of food for an ever-growing world population and provide opportunities for large and profitable industrial activities along our long-range coast. St. pp. No On this basis, 79 have proposed the creation of 37 national salmon rivers and 21 national salmon fjords. I would like to point out that in 1999 the Villaks Committee presented a NOU, «For salmon no one can do?» – quite rightly with question marks – among others. with proposals for the establishment of 50 salmon rivers and 9 national salmon fjords. The government of Stoltenberg then presented a note of consultation on the issue. This case has thus been thoroughly investigated in several rounds as we now deal with this landfill proposal. The majority of the Committee points out that the fight against Gyrodactylus salaris must be of high priority. It is agreed that gyro is not related to the farming industry and that infection is transmitted both by release of fish from infected watercourses and by using tools that have also been used in gyrositis watercourses. The fight against gyro must be a high priority in the future, and I suggest that a majority of them should step up their efforts against gyro in the 2003 state budget. At the same time, it was pointed out that the fight against gyro must be seen in a long-term perspective. However, the breeding industry is responsible for two conditions that threaten the wild species. This is the spread of salmonids, and there is the escape of farmed fish that threatens to spawn in salmonids. Let me first say something about salmonnus. It is a fact that emigrating wildax melts that are applied to large amounts of lice as it enters the sea will have a very high mortality rate – this is because salmonmus thrives and develops best in salt water and eats on the skin of the melt, leading to problems with salt balance, immunodeficiency and death. At the same time, if farming facilities are pushed far out and remain in the fjord mouths, the leachate will become larger than if the plants are located in fjords with low salinity of fallow water. It is therefore not sufficient to protect the innermost parts of the feathers outside the salmon waters. Target-conscious work is needed to reduce the lice population of farmed fish. The breeding industry itself has addressed this problem. Among other things, projects have been carried out in the Trøndelagsfjords, which have significantly reduced the level of lucerne. The majority of the Committee therefore points out that similar projects must be carried out in all fjords with farms threatening the wild axis. In the 1990s, the breeding industry did a great job of reducing the use of antibiotics to combat diseases in farming; a similar job now needs to be done to reduce the lice from farms. The second major problem with farming facilities in the vicinity of salmon rivers is escape. There is an unacceptable amount of farmed fish that escapes every year. Often it may also be difficult to find which farms the fish have escaped from. Famous farmed fish that go out into the sea, for the next round to come back to rivers by the fjord from which it has escaped, can be very harmful to the wild salmon. Studies indicate that local adaptations to wild salmon are affected by genetic incorporation of farmed salmon in wild populations. Therefore, when continuously crossing the escaped farmed fish over several generations, the farmed salmon and its characteristics will characterise the wild populations. This may help to weaken their wild populations and their productivity and reproductive capacity. Again, escape problems are not solved by moving the facilities into open waters. The harvest storms and, in general, weather conditions may increase the risk of breakdowns of farms. It is far more important to consider how facilities can be secured against escape in a much better way. The majority of the Committee therefore points to a number of measures to reduce the escape from farming facilities. We are very pleased that the Ministry of Fisheries is working on a requirement specification for farms and that a new legislation is being applied from 1 January 2004. The Committee further points out that a number of hazards resulting from escape are due to the fact that the propeller on boats used in the farming facilities can destroy the mermaids. The Committee therefore proposes that propeller protection be provided on ships used in relation to the installations. The majority of the Committee considers that the labelling of farmed salmon can have both a preventive effect by tracking and contributing to the marketing of the fish. It will, as I see it, become an increasingly strong demand from consumers in many countries to know where the salmon comes from, the producer and growing conditions, to feel safe for the food we eat. However, the labelling of farmed fish must be made cost-effective and ethically sound. Extensive efforts are being made to investigate such proposals. In addition to the concrete measures I have mentioned, which must in any case be implemented in order to achieve a sustainable farming industry, the majority of the Committee agrees with the need for the establishment of key salmon waters and salmon fjords where farming of anadromous fish species is either not permitted or subject to strong restrictions. The Government Parties and the Workers' Party have gone thoroughly through proposals for the limits of the proposed salmon fjords and have promoted a majority proposal with some border adjustments. This has been done with a view to ensuring a high level of protection for the wild species, while at the same time ensuring development opportunities for the aquaculture industry. For each of these border adjustments, professional assessments have been weighted. It is also true that in the fjords where the majority have adjusted the limits, it will not be allowed to have fish-based fish-based food-based facilities – I do not call it prohibitive zones, and that is because it may be relevant with other fish species in these areas. This also applies to some fjords where the boundaries are not adjusted. In order not to create excessive problems for the food-fishing facilities within such limits, a period of eight years should be allowed to move the facilities and the majority would point out that reasonable economic compensation should be granted for such movements. In order to ensure continued competence building in the aquaculture industry, research and training facilities will be able to continue to operate within these limits. In 1989 some temporary insurance zones were established which were originally intended to last a few years. These temporary protection zones, which are thus soon to be 14 years old, are now intended to be replaced by the final assessment of salmon watercourses and salmon fjords. The Government Parties and the Workers' Party propose that the temporary protection zones, which are now being closed, be so that new salmon concessions are not granted in these areas until the Storting has finalised proposals for supplementing and completing the system of national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords. We assume that this can happen in 2004–2005. The reason why we've removed the term "security zones" is that we're not going to get another 13 years of temporaryity. In this context, the Government Parties and the Workers' Party also promote a proposal which is not included in the vote: ‘The Government is asking for a reasonable number of the planned 50 new concessions for the production of edible fish from salmon until further notice, pending the release of previous temporary salmon protection zones for the purposes of supplementing and completing the system of national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords in 2004/2005, in order to allow the use of some of the new concessions in those areas.’ It is very satisfactory that the majority today ensure that measures are taken to preserve the salmon strains we have in Norway. At the same time, it is very satisfactory that the same majority ensure development opportunities for Norwegian aquaculture, provided that the industry itself is actively committed to solving the lice and escape problems we have today. Both industries, both fishing and tourism in connection with our salmon watercourses and the farming industry, are carriers of value creation in the districts. Therefore, it is so important to strike a good balance between protection and industry. Not all of the lots in this room are occupied with it. That is why I am pleased that the majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, have found such a good balance. I take this up with me the proposal promoted by the government parties and the Workers' Party in this case, which is in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e481	Leif Frode Onarheim has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e486	I could use a little bit of my post to quote some newspaper articles where the representative Onarheim has been out and thought positively about this by refraining from introducing passive land protection, but I will not do that. The representative of Onarheim said in his statement that for each border adjustment, professional assessments have been given weight. Then I would like to know what professional assessments have been made. And then I have to get an explanation about part of what is in these proposals, an explanation that I have not yet received. Under IV of the proposal for a decision, it is necessary to provide: ‘a reasonable compensation to owners of farms which have to move out’. I still want to know what this means, and what the owners can expect about this. And then I would like to have an explanation about the distributed proposal. It says to keep a reasonable number of the planned 50 new concessions. One thing I want to know is how this is in the light of the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party. The second thing I want to know is, what is a reasonable number? And then it goes on to say that you're going to love a reasonable number of food fish farming concessions. ‘ pending the release of former temporary salmon protection zones for salmon farming for the purposes of supplementing and completing the system of national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords in 2004/2005, so as to allow the use of some of the new concessions in those areas’. If you're going to remove the fused zones, why can't you remove them now? And what's the reason for waiting for the supplement? And when you have done this supplement, can the representative Onarheim guarantee that you will not come up with a new creative name and continue with the protection that you have previously had, or does this mean that it will be terminated permanently?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e509	The representative Korsberg and I were, I think, at the same meetings, and we've had quite a lot of contact with the research communities. It has been assessed to what extent protection is necessary, how far it should be from the salmon rivers, and the flow conditions in the healthy areas where we may set the limit. We are based on the professional assessments that have come in the course of the many, many contacts we have had with both the research and other along the way. The representative of Korsberg asks what a reasonable compensation is. I think it's hard to take from Storting's Chair without knowing both the nature of the concession, the situation of the facility, and how much you might have to invest anyway. What I think will be the result is a combination of being awarded a new concession in a suitable area and possibly a compensation to contribute to the removal costs. Something more than that, I don't think it's right to say as big business representatives, it has to be left to the department to move on to it. In the case of a reasonable number, the industry itself considers that 10 pieces could be postponed. You can ask if this is really necessary. This is probably because those within these hedging zones have not been able to participate in any of the concession applications so far. It would be unreasonable for them to continue to be excluded. Are we going to come up with something creative to protect? Now it is not certain that I will be with you for so long that we have the opportunity to fully influence it, but I would like to say that the point of removing the term ‘security zones’ is that we are now going to make a decision. In 2004–2005 we will be done with this process, and we will also know where salmon farming can be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e520	I found it positive that the government party and the Labour Party are some with SV in that there should be a marking scheme and that she must come reasonably quickly. SV has timed out when to start. Government Party and Labour Party have not done so. My first question is what time does the Right expect one to implement such a branding scheme, which, as the representative correctly points out, is absolutely necessary in relation to others. to get done with the big escapes that you had last year. One now sees trends that there are going to be even more escapes this year. And so I'd like to challenge the right on this with the wild as a brand, which was also in the right, this with the Norwegian salmon as a trade out in Europe. The Nutreco manager says that if the regression is weakened, if the wild salmon in Norway is weakened, then the brandy could become heavy and this could lead to considerable losses for the Norwegian farming industry. Now there was a near colliding error selection for a number of actions needed to protect the wild. This now rejects the Government and comes with something puzzling, or something very small, compared to what the Villaks Selection proposed. My question is, is what the government party is doing, today enough to secure the brand? Finally, the Minister for the Environment and the Government Party chose SV as partners in this matter. SV stood for the Villax Selection setting. We had 12 organizations that backed up the requirements, and a European environmental movement ended up doing so. Is the representative of Onarheim happy that it is not Villax Selection's setting that will come about?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e529	The timing of labelling and implementation is difficult to determine before we have found an appropriate method. As I said in my post, it is important to get a label as soon as possible, but it must be animal-ethically sound. It must also be possible to use the labelling, which the representative of Langeland was in, precisely to ensure that the farmed salmon can be placed on the market in a good way. I could give a lecture in an hour on brand construction, but I'm not going to do that. But it is quite right, as the representative Langeland says, that it is important that we do not destroy that image, the mark, that we have on salmon. It is primarily up to the farming industry to maintain a high level of quality. That's what will decide if you can really keep this good brand name. At the same time, I am very concerned to ensure that the wild axis is well protected, and we have done so now. I was in my post about a number of things that were important to make sure that the wild axis could survive. This is the most important thing we can do. At the same time, it is important to ensure that breeding is not carried out directly in the estuaries and thus destroying the spawning grounds of the wild species. I think we've done a lot. If that's enough, it'll always be possible to discuss, but I think we've found a fairly good balance. Why not SV as a partner? Well, that's pretty simple because we're also concerned about having a living and good farming industry along the coast. It generates huge revenues for AS Norway, and it provides good jobs and good opportunities for District Norway to develop further. We are concerned about that, and I think it is sad that not SV is also concerned about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e538	Very many hearing bodies were critical to oblige the breeding establishment to move out of the national salmon fjords. There is a lot of investment in installations, and they provide important jobs and tax revenues in very many communities. As far as I remember, the government suggested that existing facilities should not be required to move out, or that any voluntary agreements should be made. But in the agreement – I realize that you have to bend a little bit in a settlement – it was decided that a farm would be required to move out by 2011. Furthermore, the agreement states that reasonable compensation should be granted to the owners of the farms that have to move, but there is nothing to do with the workplaces and communities affected. In this case, SV and the Central Party have made a proposal, proposal No. 7: ‘The Government is asked to establish a mechanism whereby, in the event of any adverse consequences of protective measures, financial compensation is granted to local communities, inter alia through conversion schemes and development projects for land-based farms.’ Are not the right-wing concerns about the jobs and income of these affected municipalities? I also want to ask the representative of Onarheim: what does ‘reasonable compensation’ mean in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e549	I can see the concern that some people would have if there were a lot of installations within these zones that had to move. The studies we've done indicate that there are three, maybe four, installations within these zones that need to move. One of the plants is entirely in the estuary. I think most people will understand that having a farm in the mouth of a salmon fairy is not very smart. The other two plants, in Trondheimsfjorden, have to move. I understand that it's a problem, but it's still not an insurmountable problem, as we see it. In addition, it is therefore permitted to have educational and research facilities within these zones. What compensation they will receive, I replied in my reply to the representative Langeland. It's hard to say how much it can be, but I think it has to be, a negotiation between the individual who's going to move, and the ministry. As far as the community is concerned, I believe that I have been in contact with the vast majority of those affected. There has been an incredible intensity in the contacts, and I feel that most communities, with the border adjustments we've made, have come out of this fairly well, so there shouldn't be any cause for great concern. I really think that in this agreement we can be a little proud that we have managed to balance this in a good way, so that we have both solved the problems for the farming industry and at the same time let the salmon get the right to drive in these feathers. I think that's very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e558	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e561	Let me start by replicating to the representative Onarheim when it comes to that we in SV are not busy with living districts. Just the combination of things. the farming industry, the tourism industry, and the hunting and fishing interests were, of course, a point in relation to what the Villaks Selection came up to. This is precisely why the Villaks Selection was also closest to being reconciled in its position when it concerned the measures needed to reduce the wild species, while at the same time preserving the environment and the rural industries. It is therefore completely wrong to mention that we in SV are not busy with this. There is also evidence that a person does not view the values of the branded wild species or looks at the values of the tourism industry related to the wild species. Surnadal municipality, which the representative Onarheim himself has visited, calculates the income of wild breeds per year. years to between 15 and 20 million. kr. Thus, one needs to see that the wild species and the care it takes is a very important matter in order to safeguard the commercial interests of the districts. I also have a comment on proposal No. 18, which has now appeared, to hold back a certain amount of farming concessions. Let me first say that there is no problem, because the responsibility that the Government and the majority have shown here in the main hall attached to the award of concessions is shameful. First, the Council of State awarded 50 concessions over the table before discussing the proposal on national salmon rivers and national salmon fjords. Then there was a budget where the pot was increased by 50 new concessions, because one required 240 million. kr for balancing. That the industry said afterwards that they didn't need these, and that there was no market for these concessions, makes it a little absurd when you put forward suggestions to hold some of them back. The concessions are held back by themselves. In Finnmark, for example, there are: none of the parties to the new concession awards. Then I want to discuss SV's proposals, and suggestions that we have with others. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that proposal No. 15 should not be included. It occurred, for some reason, an error occurred. The villa is in danger, and national salmon fjords and salmon rivers must be created. The government's proposal, which is being discussed today, is not in line with what the Villaks Committee, the Directorate for Nature Management, a collection of environmental trajectories – Norwegian and European – and SV meiner needs to do to save the wild. The government is now in favour of a poorer proposal, together with the Workers' Party, and they are wasting the chance of getting used to the farming industry and the party SV to scare the wild. The Villax selection, the rent of Rieber-Mohn, pointed out its major problems with salmon and the escape of salmon as the main factors in the danger of wild salmon. Lacectus from breeding plants kill it would melt on the way out in spring. Annually, there are more farmed salmon than there are spawning wild salmon in Norwegian rivers. They get involved in the wild, which loses the genetically stored experience that he needs to survive. As the representative of Korsberg correctly points out, 200,000 of the 630,000 who become the frame, are farmed acid, which also distorts the wild axis in relation to, for example, gypsum. The Government's salmon settlement with the Labour Party does not take into account the main conclusion of the Villaks Selection, which says that large farming-free areas and areas with few facilities reduce the problem of escaped salmon and salmon. They disregard the conclusion that farming facilities need to be moved to secure the wild species, i.e.: they now adjust to it in the agreement, with installations moving in two places – and no new ones being established in 50 watercourses and nine large fjords. Government council Burnde's proposal hack this up and pick out 21 salmon fjords light. In 18 of these, there is no obligation to remove existing installations. Government council Brende's proposal also opens up a more intensive salmon farming when he terminates the protection of 40 p.m. of the areas, which have been banned from farming since 1989. He'll be right back to it. SV invited the government to at least move farming facilities from the salmon fjords and to protect the most important individual areas of Atlantic wild breeds in the world, i.e. in Finnmark. There would be no fire in the state council. This is where he was overthrown by the Council of State of Ludvigsen. The Minister for the Environment and the Government have removed the environmental movement and the SV and the Villaks Committee have removed their clear professional advice. So the villa wasn't important enough. SV is aware that Norway has a special global management responsibility for wild species. Norway has the largest population of North Atlantic salmon, but we have already wiped it out from 60 rivers, and he is in danger of disappearing from 200 others, according to the salmon register of the Directorate of Nature Management in 1998. Through the Berne Convention and the Rio Convention and Norway's participation in NASCO, Norway is legally committed to taking care of, restoring and securing the wild salmon populations. Before the commodity principle is to be applied to this work. Therefore, SV supports the creation of national salmon fjords and salmon streams to secure the wild stocks in Norway, and we follow without exception the Rieber-Mohn selection's proposal in the 'For salmon for all can't do?' option. This would provide a resilient management of the wild axis. So it's the creation of 50 national salmon rivers and 9 national salmon fjords. The Villax selection also underlines the consideration of expanding the number of national salmon streams. This has also been suggested by SV. A collection of environmental movements and various other organisations, including: Noregs Jager- og Fiskerförbund, Noregs Naturververförbund, WWF, Norsk Tourist Association, Norsk Lakseelver, Norregs Grundegar- og Sjölaksefiskearlag, Norregs Bondelag, The Future in Our Hands, SABIMA and Nature and Youth today recommends that we fully follow the Rieber-Mohn selection without exception. SV notes that the proposal will only have the SV's votes. In some contexts, it is said that one has not researched this with security zones, that one has not made enough efforts to find out if it has anything in common. That's SV agree. The criticism will include: traveled from the Advance Party, and he is perfectly reasonable. The problem is, every time SV and others suggest that you spend money on research, it will be cut. The last time it was just by the Progress Party in cooperation with the government party cut in the budget. So it doesn't really matter when you kind of criticise that it's not being researched, as long as you cut your own research resources. SV believes that the procedure by the Government on this issue of granting new salmon concessions is alarming. The government itself has repeatedly stated that the award of new salmon concessions should not take place before the treatment of St.prp. No 79 for 2001-2002, that's the proposition we're dealing with today, was done. This would have meant that Storting could have dealt with the matter on a free and independent basis. The government chose in spite of this promise, after the exchange of letters with the Progress Party, to grant new concessions before the treatment we have today was completed. SV will therefore make it clear that we believe that new concessions for the breeding of anadromous species should not be allowed in the areas that are now considered to expand by the next round of the creation of national salmon fjords and national salmon streams. Based on what's multiple today, it can act as a follow-up to SV's desire here. SV regrets that the Government's proposal ignores the entire 40 pst. of the areas currently subject to the temporary restriction scheme. This opens up these areas for intensive salmon farming in the middle of their emigration pathways, and it stands in sharp contrast to the Villaks Selection's recommendations. The government brings up the nine biological, cultural and societally-based fjords of many small fjords. SV believes that with this grip we do not take much into account that there are large non-farming zones that have positive effects on the wild axis, all of which here, with the exception of the Progress Party, are initially some about. It is the greatest weakness of the Government's proposal. Then, in relation to East-Finnmark, one opens for salmon farming in the area where the world's most important population of slipping Atlantic salmon is. This is in stark contradiction with what the Minister for the Environment says about the government's environmental protection policy. SV refers to the fact that the Directorate for Nature Management, as published on 21 September 2001, recalled the following: ‘The Committee paid special attention to securing salmon stocks in Finnmark and proposed the salmon fjords Porsangen and Altafjorden as well as a new large salmon-free zone east of Kinnaroden.’ The Directorate believes that the proposal should be followed up in Finnmark. So this isn't happening today. Only SV follow the advice of the professional body. I'm sorry. Rieber-Mohn, the leader of the Villaks Selection, wrote in the evening post on 1 February this year that ‘all the essential and partly highly conflicting interests in the salmon issue’ were present in the Villaks Selection when they gave up. Rieber-Mohn now notes that «mighty lobbyists seem to have distanced themselves from the work of their own representatives in the sample. In recent times they have operated in Stortinget». So in plain text, that's one of the things. the breeding industry which has been able to help persuade the Government Party and the Labour Party to enter into a settlement that is not in accordance with the needs of the wild species. So the consequence is the loss of the wild axis. A total of $20 billion is the value of the wild species in terms of fishing, travel and quality activities "Norwegian salmon". This includes: therefore it is important to do what the Villax selection just provided. But with the plurality that we now have, it's the farming industry that is winning out today. SV would like to take the Nutreco boss seriously in this matter when he says that if a person weakens the Norwegian wild axis, a brand name «Norwegian salmon» will also be weakened. Therefore, we suggested that a trade mark value be calculated and assessed what could happen if this value was devalued by a non-reliable breeding industry. That's not what the majority wanted to be on. They'll close their eyes and hope it goes well. Of course, it regrets SV. A few examples in the end, and a couple of things to think about. In the case of salmon feed, Norway imports huge quantities of fish oil in order to be able to feed this salmon. The oil will be extracted from fish, among others. off the coast of Peru and Chile. If you get the growth that the Norwegian farming industry wants and the majority here add up today in relation to this problem, I wouldn't be surprised if it would lead to a fish out of these poor countries. That perspective must not be forgotten when one is dealing with this issue today and rejects the closeness of the Villax Selection option.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e606	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e610	I think that the representative of Langeland presented quite well and thoroughly why SV does not really want to have a farming industry. Then I have some questions, but I'm not going to spend a long time on them. As far as I could get along, the representative Langeland drew proposal No. 15th - He nods and confirms it. At the same time, he uses the Villax Committee's attitude in about his entire article as a argument for his vision, and then I would like to have a little more explanation as to why you draw proposal No. 15th So it is that everyone wants to strengthen the wild species, including the farming industry, because it is an important resource for the farming industry, but we disagree on the measures to be taken to strengthen the wild species. I would also like an explanation of proposal No. 12, where it states that ‘The Government requests the introduction of technical requirements for all farms from 1 January 2004’. I wonder what requirements this is for. What are the costs of this phase-out of existing installations? I also have to ask if it is simply the capacity to phase out these facilities in a little over half a year?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e621	It is totally wrong when the Progress Party says that SV does not want to have a farming industry. On the contrary, the Rieber Mohn selection, i.e. the Villaks selection's setting, makes it possible to have a viable, sustainable farming industry. This is based on the assumption that SV does not have any problems with supporting this setting. Of course, the most important thing is that a sister takes care of international obligations. has in relation to having a viable wildax strain in Norway. This makes SV based on this professional, basic setting, which now all cancels off - minus SV and the environment movement. So to clarify in relation to proposal No. 15, which was drawn. SV has taken up the Rieber Mohn selection's setting in its integrity, and proposal No. 15 is inside this one. I don't know why it's still there, it was drawn in the last committee meeting. The reason why it was laid out was the hope that the majority with the knowledge they had gained that no one would start breeding east of Kinnarodden, would vote for it. No one wanted these concessions. That is why I hope that a committee treatment would be able to get multiples to stop the farming industry that you had set up there, as long as the market was not interested in it. The last question concerns technical qualifications. I think it's a strange question. When one based on today's escape statistics sees for itself that 630,000 farmed fish escaped last year, and sees for itself that one has had an escape of 160,000 to date this year, it is satisfied with the technical requirements that are, it reminds us of the discharge of responsibility in relation to this policy, and that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e633	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e636	The title of this proposition is ‘The establishment of national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords’. The purpose of the case is to provide a selection of the most important salmon species in Norway with special protection against interference and activity in the watercourse, and against farming activities in the nearby fjords and coastal areas. The aim is also to help secure the Norwegian wild axis in a significant part of the world's collective presence of wild Atlantic salmon. So the job title of the case goes beyond the title. This has also reflected itself in the broad and strong commitment that has been in this matter. Strongly conflicting views are also expressed here in the Stortinget, from the Progress Party, which will postpone the introduction of salmon fjords and salmon rivers, to the Socialist Left Party, which will further lead the protection and action zones and create more salmon rivers and salmon fjords than the selection proposed. The government party is pleased that there was a likely settlement with the Workers' Party which contained both restrictions and protection of the wild species and the conditions of farming at the same time. We have been aware of the responsibility we have to protect and take care of the Norwegian salmon strains when handling the cases. In many other countries, many of the Atlantic salmon strains are almost eradicated, and it is therefore of particular importance that the Norwegian wild breeds be protected, both as genetic resources and as food sources around the country. At the same time, we have taken care that the farming industry manages large values. Fish from farming facilities are a large and valuable resource with a large international market. The breeding industry provides jobs in District Norway, and the industry has been targeted as a field of activity for years to come. This has a plural drawing on it. From the registration work carried out in the 1800s until today, the number of salmon strains has been reduced by about 50. Although some of the salmon strains have disappeared as a natural part of the evolutional transformation, it is quite clear that man-made actions, which have led to acid rain, watercourse regulation, and not least gyro for the farms and salmon, have provided support for the reduction of salmon strains. The challenge is to protect the 525 Norwegian salmon strains known per year. today. I mentioned earlier that there have been a lot of contributions in connection with the treatment of this deposit proposition. I have a feeling that there has been a process in the farming industry, where they constantly focus more often on their own responsibility to protect the Norwegian wild species. Breeders acknowledge that the amount of farmed fish that escapes has been unacceptably high up until now. As a result, the industry is now pointing out ways to reduce the number of escaped farmed salmon. There is a need for clear laws and regulations, and one must react strictly to those that do not follow the rules. The same applies to the fight against disease on farmed fish. It must be mandatory to implement the corresponding project as in the Trøndelagsfjorden in order to reduce the salmon fjord where necessary. The fight against gyro must be intensified accordingly. The budget also provided clear leadership to increase efforts to clean up gyro. Boats used in the breeding industry must have propeller protection. The release of copper due to the treatment of the need has to be reduced and banned as new materials are used. The industry is also involved in compulsory training for breeders, so that they can be aware of the necessary protection and environmental measures, and health, environment and safety must demonstrate that in a good way. The positive thing is that these are suggestions developed by the farming industry itself. When the fish escapes, the farmkeepers will be the first to disappear. So that's why they're so concerned about it, as well as getting involved with the wild axis. As a work programme, breeders should have a zero vision against escape. So, the zero vision has to be the goal. Of course, all deviations are a heavy burden for all. There will be greater income for breeders to protect the wild species, and in this way there will be a win-win situation – i.e. both the protection of the wild species and the place for farming at the same time. In dealing with the matter, we have taken care of both protection and environmental interests and industrial interests. From a number of points of view, it is claimed that there are considerable contradictions between different interests. That's probably right. However, there are also strong common interests that concern both caring for and fending for the wilderness axis and seeing at the same time the value of a breeding industry that invests properly and environmentally friendly. It is important to stress that the Government's main principle for the creation of national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords is clearly visible in the setting. In the earlier debate today, it could not be heard. At the same time, it has been a good communication with the farming industries and municipalities and the many who are concerned about nutrient development in their areas, in order to adjust some of the limits of salmon fjords. The ministry provided a good basis for the landfill proposal, and further work has made some reasonable practical adjustments. This imposes great demands on the farming industry – to follow up the insurance measures that they themselves have taken, which must be practised promptly and formalised by a new regulatory framework with effect from 1 January 2004. Thus, 2003 will be a decisive year for testing farmers’ willingness to invest in safety and disease reduction in farms before the introduction of binding legislation from 1 January 2004. The activity in the farming industry in 2003 will have an impact on the final setting of national salmon flows and salmon fjords to be treated by the Stortinge in 2004 and 2005. This should then be seen in conjunction with the treatment of the Appendix to Protection Plan 4, so that we can get a single case for the watercourses to be protected. It is likely that it will not be long before wild salmon and farmed fish can retain their areas with virtually optimal resource use and joint efforts for protection and use within sustainable development. Today's decision, in my opinion, provides a good basis for responsible, sustainable development.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e668	The villa managed by Norway is a unique resource. We have a particular international responsibility to take care of the many wild-tail populations that exist in us. The villa also means a lot to the nutritional basis in many areas. We all agree on this. It is therefore important to put in place measures to protect and preserve wild salmon populations. We all agree on that. It is only when measures are to be put into practice that there is a little division of opinion. The proposal to establish 37 national salmon watercourses has wide connections, and the Centre Party also joins. However, I would like to stress that the proposed protection provisions for the watercourses must be enforced in order to preserve salmon stocks and not be drawn towards a general protection of the area. The centre party expects that conversion to local management is also carried out for national salmon watercourses, in line with other watercourses. It would be wrong to limit the role of river management teams. It is necessary to ensure that watercourses which are not proposed as national salmoncourses are not managed less favourably than in the past. These watercourses must be carried out in the same way in terms of research, monitoring, liming, gyrogenic control and supervision. The Central Party also broadly supports the proposal to establish 21 national salmon fjords. However, we have a different view of how the final demarcation of some national salmon fjords should be. We propose to change the limits of Dalsfjorden, Nordfjord, Romsdalsfjorden, Sunndalsfjorden and Halsfjorden. The limits are mainly proposed as proposed by the Villaks Committee for the temporary protection zones. I would also like to point out that breeding activities outside the national salmon fjords may have an impact on the wild species. It is therefore necessary to strike a balance between the administrative regimes practised within and outside the salmon fjords. The proposition states that no existing farming or seine fishing facilities shall be required to relocate the establishment. Today, when the government parties and the Workers' Party are given a majority for such a move, the Centre Party believes that all the costs of relocation must, of course, be fully compensated by the State. The effectiveness of the system of national salmon fjords remains to be seen, the best way to design the management regime and the spatial distribution of salmon fjords. The Central Party has therefore proposed that the scheme be evaluated after 10 years. So let's think about both the management and the areas. We support the proposal to extend the duration of the temporary protection zones for areas not converted into national salmon fjords now. It would be unfortunate to have a short-term lifting of restrictions on fjords that may be protected again in a few years. The centre party underlines that concrete measures need to be added to the establishment of national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords. Active fight against gyros and increased research and registration efforts must be carried out. In particular, measures to reduce problems of escape and of salmontus need to be continued. Further work is needed on a system for the labelling of farmed salmon. Decisions on national status do not help anything. Follow-up and subsequent efforts are crucial. I would also like to raise the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e691	Inger S. Enger has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e696	The fact that the Centre Party is concerned with both the environment and district policy is not surprising. The Progress Party has today tried to create a conflict between the environment on the one hand, and industry and district policy on the other. I expect that the representative of Enger from the Senter Party can confirm that if there is a conflict here, there is an equal amount between two different forms of nutrition, namely, through the farming industry on the one hand, and rural tourism based on salmon fishing on the other. The working party is also concerned that industries that will lose their protection must be compensated, as is also indicated by the need to compensate the farms that are now being moved out. But the center party and SV want to go even further. They provide in a proposal for general compensation to local communities which are adversely affected by the protection measures. I have to challenge the representative, Mr. Enger, on how she has practically intended to solve it. I think it's going to be a hypothetical problem. Is it true that all communities who believe that there should have been a farm off their coast should be compensated for this? Perhaps the representative, Mr Enger, has also considered the problem of a small community, for example: in the Gaul Valley, which loses its excessive progress on salmon industry, does not receive money for it. I think that in Gaula you can risk losing money on salmon fishing because the farming industry gets too much activity. Is it the case that these proposals should also compensate for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e703	I was challenged by the representative regarding nutrition. I guess I really feel that the Workers' Party and the Center Party are pretty close in this area. Both parties are trying to achieve a balance between farming, which is an important industry, and wild salmon, which is, in fact, an important industry in many parts of our country, because salmon fishing has provided important revenues to many communities for over 100 years. This is important for fishing, but it also provides income to local communities in relation to overnight offers, purchases, etc. Domestic municipalities are the main beneficiaries of wild-type income. On the other hand, coastal municipalities have been given new jobs and income opportunities through the farming industry. So it's important to balance these two industries. Then we come to something that was also mentioned, this by imposing restrictions on breeding activities in some communities. There may be a few problems. They are excluded from tax receipts and jobs that they expect to have. We believe that it is very important that these communities receive some sort of compensation. Then, in each case, one will consider how best to do it, but nutrition funds will be a current keyword here. It is in this context that we, together with the SV, are promoting a proposal for financial compensation where there are negative consequences of protection measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e714	A little bit in the same street as the Workers' Party challenge the Center Party: Now there's a real reason to wonder where the Center Party is in relation to some political areas. We've heard that the new second-leader will have gas power plants, and late in the weekend, the centre party went into Rogaland to build out the Sauda River line, plus that they went in for gas power plants, so this cracks a little bit in every direction. Before, one could know that when e.g. The peasants and Norwegian Lakselver said something, the Center Party was largely united. Today we have to ask ourselves if it is that simple. In this case, SV is associated with Norwegian Lakselver and Norwegian Bondelag to require the Villaks Selection settings to be confirmed. Centre party won't do that. They are not busy following the professional advice given in the Villax Selection option, and SV is wondering why. So to this thing with local business, which the Center Party says one's busy. But when you don't want the Villaks Selection option, you're at risk of endangering the incomes of the municipality of Surnadal, the municipality of Bjerkreim and others. Sal of fishing license in Surna was 1.5 million. kr, and they calculate the income from wild breeds to be between 15 and 20 million. kr in that municipality. The same thing will apply, for example. for Bjerkreim in my municipality. So here's something that's not entirely right. Finally. After all, the center part is not special...
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e726	Now the representative Langeland has no time to ask any more questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e730	It's okay. Then I'll stop there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e735	It seems as if Langeland was told what he felt he needed. I want to start by calming the representative with regard to the Center Party and new views. The centre batch has not changed its vision in the case of gas power plants. We still require CO2 management and will continue to do so. That's it. Otherwise, Langeland was also concerned about my relationship with the Bond Team. It is so pleasant that someone is worried about me, but I must say I am most concerned about Uppland peasantry, to which I have local membership, so it fits very well. I have an excellent relationship with them, both in the case of salmon fjords and salmon watercourses. As for the concern of the community, I'm the first to be in it. We are very concerned about this, but both salmon rivers and farms are district policies, so it is essential here to find the balance. The center part has been careful about it. We say it's important that it be an evaluation after ten years. We're talking about living organisms here. When we decide today that there should be national salmon fjords in some areas, it does not help with a provision, one must also do things in that context. Therefore, the Centre Party considers that it is very important that one evaluates and sees how things are going, and that any action that may be taken will be terminated or new measures will be taken. It is a wish from both county municipalities and also some conservationists. I think that if we spend time on this, here we get to a good development for different districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e746	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e749	I have grown up at Norway's most beautiful and, in my opinion, the most exciting salmon seel in Norway, namely Namsen, and have seen how it affects culture, business and nutrition. This is how I see it as a major step forward that 37 national salmon rivers and 21 national salmon fjords are now being established here today. We record that there is a broad majority in the committee for this, something that the Left is pleased with. The government made certain changes to the setting of the Villax Committee after an extensive consultation, and that is the way it should be. There are important and conflicting interests in this matter, but the emphasis is on the protection of the wild race as well as the guiding principle of both the Government's proposal and the compromise between the government parties and the Workers' Party that is being adopted here today. In general, it also receives support from the Center Party. The main division in the matter goes, as in many other environmental matters, between the Progress Party and the rest of the Stortinget. The party of progress never denies itself as the worst enemy of environmental and environmental policy. On the other extreme we have SV, and I respect the fact that the party relies on the setting of the Villaks Committee and is on it. After the Left's view, it's probably a little bit simple. We believe that SV does not take inwards the many heavy-weight opinions that have come in the consultation round. Salmon is one of the key regional policy instruments we have, and the balance between wild salmon and farmed salmon needs to be handled wisely. The left is pleased that there will be no urgent decision on the labelling of farmed salmon, but that it will be assessed in the light of the many measures taken against the risk of escape. We are very sceptical about snout marking, which we believe will be inefficient and will incur enormous costs for the industry. In addition, it has an animal protection perspective, which I do not believe has been addressed to a large enough extent in what the committee says. Breeding has an enormous impact on the country as a whole and on many communities. It shall be a support bar in business and the further development of it in the future. This must be part of the overall assessment we are making today. The debate on the protection of the wild species will probably not end today. The government will return with further assessments in less than this long time. The dilemma between an important breeding industry and the preservation of the wild species has not been solved once and for all if we get a good step forward with the decisions taken today. Finally, I must also say as a salmon fisherman that the anxiety over the farming industry has become less recent. The investment that has been in research within the industry, and what we see, for example. in the decline in the use of antibiotics and in the decline in salmontus, this is an industry that has taken up the environmental challenges that we wild-tailed fishermen have long pointed out. I think we can manage to come up with solutions where the two industries can live better together.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e766	The next speaker is Asmund Kristoffersen. He's not here. The speaker then is Jan Arild Ellingsen. He's not here either. Then they miss out on active participation. Then we go to the councillor Børge Brende – he's here!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e769	That would probably attract even more attention if I didn't put in the hall here now!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e774	It would have been quick to finish then!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e777	Yes. – The accession of the Storting to the establishment of national salmon river basins and salmon fjords may be the main milestone in the preservation of Norway’s unique wild species populations. The villa is special for this country. It represents one of our most important natural values. And for centuries it has also been an important part of our cultural tradition, our nutrient base and our quality of life. It's still like that. Many districts have significant incomes from tourism and activities related to salmon fishing. Even the farming industry, which is so important for the country and the coast, is based on the wild salmon populations. I am pleased that a broad majority is now so clearly indicating that efforts will be stepped up for the Norwegian wild axis, and it is also a majority that provides predictability in relation to this in the years to come. It is also of international importance, as Norway is the world’s most important habitat for this unique species of wild species. In the debate, there has been a great deal of attention on the concerns of the farming industry, with good reason — not just because the farming industry is important for the country and for the coastal districts, but especially because there is a future industry that we need to invest in. Therefore, I think it is important to stress that the image is not as black and white as some have produced it. It's not a question of whether we're going to bet on the wild or whether we're going to bet on the farmed salmon. We have to do both. And it's not a question of whether we're going to bet on salmon watercourses and salmon fjords, or whether we're going to bet on combating gyro and salmonnus. And once again, we have to do both. National salmon watercourses and salmon fjords are important not only for the wild species. They are also a central part of a long-term business strategy for the farming industry. In an increasingly environmentally conscious market, good environmental adaptation and credibility in relation to environmental challenges will be crucial for the future of the industry. It's also important to look a little bit further in time. The government is now making great efforts to facilitate the development of breeding of marine species. I am sure that the national salmon fjords will prove to be important land reserves for farming with species that do not conflict with the wild salmon. I would also like to emphasise that national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords are only one of the many measures necessary to ensure the long-term nature of the wild. Now that we are providing specific protection for three-quarters of the Norwegian wild caught resource through the establishment of national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords, we need to support this by strengthening efforts against Gyrodactylus salaris, taking general measures against escape and lactus, establishing more effective cross-sectoral cooperation and gaining more knowledge. There is good general knowledge of the migration behaviour of wild salmon and farmed salmon, of the occurrence of escaped farmed salmon and the extent of wild salmonids related to the location of farms. This shows that the level of breeding activity is relevant to the amount of escaped farmed salmon in the rivers and the presence of salmonids on the wild fish. This will apply as long as fish are evacuated from the plants and produced salmonnus in them. Studies of fisheries and spawning populations from all parts of the country show that rivers situated in larger zones with limited farming activity are least frequented by escaped farmed salmon. It has also been shown that the share of escaped farmed salmon in marine fish and spawning stock is increasing with increasing density of farms or the amount of smolt released in farms. The material collected annually in the context of a nationwide monitoring of salmon populations also shows that areas with a minimum farming activity have a minimum of escaped farmed salmon in the populations. The best examples here are Finnmark, Trondheimsfjorden and Jærkyststen. The escaped salmon will usually walk up rivers near the escape site. It is also the case that escaped farmed salmon are drawn more towards rivers with large populations, and large escapes provide more precise return to areas where the fish are escaped. I am therefore pleased that Storting's treatment of this matter has also placed great emphasis on the whole of the effort to strengthen salmon populations. There are many measures which do not need to be seen separately, but in context, and which help Norway to discharge its «rain forest responsibility»: to secure the North Atlantic wilderness axis for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e809	It's going to be line change. The president also regrets that he advertised Jan Arild Ellingsen in front of the councillor Børge Burnde. That was wrong. He's next on the list of speakers. And then we try to wrap up Asmund Kristoffersen after Jan Arild Ellingsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e814	As the debate has shown, there is a compromise between the government parties and the Labour Party in this matter. It's no secret that we could want to go further, but at least we've made a compromise that strengthens the preservation of the wild salmon. The working party has been concerned that in 13 of the national salmon fjords there shall be no salmon farming. We have also been concerned that there is a need for stronger action. We point to the fact that salmon, escaped farmed salmon and salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris are important threats to the wild species, and that the Government will prioritise measures to address these threats. A binding action plan shall be drawn up for the implementation of actions over the next three years. We refer to the proposal from the budgetary position that the Government should come back at the latest in the context of the next budget, with an assessment by the Directorate for Nature Management's Action Plan against Gyro. We expect the government, after dealing with this matter today, to make its assessments into action. There is also a stronger policy in the case of salmonmus, including a more active anti-skid policy, among others. V, to introduce propeller protection requirements for boats used in the farming industry. And it's precisely the measures against escape that I want to ask the Minister for the Environment to elaborate. The majority say in the setting: ‘frozen farmed salmon poses a significant threat to wild salmon strains’. You also call for a zero vision in terms of escape. A zero vision is an ambitious objective, given that in 2002 some 630,000 fish escaped. That is why I would challenge the Minister for the Environment that this zero vision must be followed up with action, and I would like to ask: what will the Minister for the Environment now do to reach this vision?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e819	As I said at the outset, I think this is a milestone for the conservation of the Atlantic wild axis. There are many people who have talked for many years about that we should get a protection, but today the Stortinget will decide that the wild axis will have the right to drive in many fjords compared to other types of fish, for example. the farmed salmon. It is important, and I think it is nice that the government parties and the Labour Party have reached a solid and predictable compromise here. Nor is it a secret that there has been a need to increase efforts in relation to gyro control. In the current year, this has been increased to 16 million. kr, from a far too low level from the past, in cooperation with the Progress Party. Of course, the government will come back with a review of this action programme presented last year by the Directorate for Nature Management in the context of the 2004 budget. As far as escape is concerned, there is a huge problem, and when over 400,000 farmed salmon escapes from the mermaids during the year and mixes with the wild axis, I think it is regrettable that the industry has not taken real responsibility here before. I think that the proposal that the Committee has now put forward to call for the protection of the propellers, which, in addition to what the Minister for Fisheries has put forward, makes sense, and it has my full support. Another measure proposed by the Minister for Fisheries, which has been in a drawer in the Ministry of Fisheries for too long, but through which Ludvigsen was involved, is to require ISO certification of these farms. That's absolutely necessary. We will also have requirements for the technical standard for the other, improvement of operational legislation, we will propose better reporting procedures and quality assurance of escape rates, and the introduction of internal control and the establishment of a disaster commission are also relevant measures to have access to the escape. But the point is that it's at least very unwise to put farming facilities, where there are escapes, right outside the world's best salmon fjords, as some people don't have counter visions against in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e827	I don't know if the end of the previous line from the state council was the coin of the Progress Party, but there's at least a broad consensus on getting something done with the escape figures that the farming industry has. But in this regard, I would like to ask the Council of State, who has been a keen protection fighter with great concern for what is happening outside the borders of the country: what has the Council of State done, and what will the Council of State do, to limit and try to influence the rates of escape in other countries? In Ireland, 300,000 salmon escaped from the Faroe Islands in 2001 and 200 000 salmon escaped from Scotland in 2002. At the same time, we know that there are many countries that have great numbers of darkness, and then I wonder what the Council of State intends to do in this regard. Because we can adopt quite a lot strangely here on the Stortinget, but we can't refuse the salmon to swim into the coast. Governments noted that other marine species could have been bred in these zones. That is quite correct, but I have already registered that the protest industry, that is. the environmental protection organisations, which receive State aid from the Ministry, start protesting against cod farming and all other types of farming. So you can't replace it with a new type of breeding, because the protests will come anyway. Finally, the question of temporary hedged zones. The Council of State writes in a letter to the Committee that today we have much better knowledge of a range of factors that are important for assessing the impact of the zone. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: what kind of investigation does he refer to?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e836	Without there being any other comment: the size never adopts anything ‘strange’.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e839	It is quite right that the representative of Korsberg had to say that the last part of my previous line was the coin of the Progress Party in relation to the question of the wisdom of laying difficult farms with large escapes right outside some of the world's best salmon rivers. As long as the farming industry has not managed the escape bit, the area protection for which the Stortinge goes in today will be a guarantee that the salmon strains will also live in the future. The representative of Korsberg says that there is a broad consensus that these escapes should be prevented. But it's not enough to stand on Stortingen's pulpit and say that we're against the escapes, the point is that there has to be action. Several of the measures I took were in the previous line change. But as long as there is no control over it, I record that the only party in the Stortinget today that opposes granting a right of way to the wild axis in part of the main national salmon fjords is the Progress Party. And the Progress Party must then take responsibility for the fact that one believes that it is going to be possible to set up difficult farms, where it can accommodate thousands of farmed salmon and mix with the wild game, to such fjords. Of course, it is true that other countries are also struggling with this problem, and they will have to clean up their own problems. We have now started to clean up the Norwegian situation. We have the largest and perhaps the most important wildlife populations in the world. In this context, we also have a special responsibility in relation to biodiversity. If the farming industry is to be able to do this, our important export industry will also have a advantage, because it will then have a stronger eco-stamp attached to it. Then it is up to everyone to give honey if you get this sort of treatment. In the case of State-aided organisations, they do not determine the government’s policy — even if they receive State aid and do a good job. And as I said in my post: in the future we will also open up to other marine species, including. in these feathers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e848	Let me start with a look-up in the Evening Post today that says that salmon farmers are technically bankrupt, and that if you keep up the policy that Stortinget has adopted, you can easily assign 50 new concessions based on a 240 million-dollar balancing need. kr, the situation in the industry is likely to deteriorate. Now knows a story behind this, where the Minister for Fisheries, almost on the kick here in Stortinget, first decided to award 40 concessions and the Council of State Børge Brende, in cooperation with the Progress Party, decided to allocate 50 more to the budgetary procedure. So my question is: does the Minister for the Environment see that he can go into the line that SV proposed just before Christmas, where a halts the award of concessions on the basis that one from the industry and from the professionals' side actually asked for this? Point two is related to the problem of wild card and error message itself. I think it is good that the government has finally submitted a message, because others have contributed with this. But then the question is, what is one thing that has been presented? And who is it a well to cooperate with? It marvels at SV, based on the profile of the Environment Minister. As the Minister for the Environment points out, Norway has the most important population of wild species, and through the Berne Convention and NASCO we have committed ourselves to this. The villa selection pointed to a concrete solution. A closely compatible selection did this. Nevertheless, the Minister for the Environment has a different solution. Why does he not choose the SV and the twelve environmental organisations that want better protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e857	The representative of Langeland is often concerned about who the government parties cooperate with in environmental policy. As a rule, there is a budgetary settlement with the Progress Party that the representative of Langeland is not satisfied with. Now he is also surprised that the government parties here have chosen to cooperate with the Workers' Party in order to achieve a good settlement, a party that I have understood is also SV's preferred partner in many contexts. Now I don't think we should put so much emphasis on who we're working with, but on what the result is. In the context of the budget, we received a good budget for the environment in cooperation with the Progress Party. I think the agreement we have now reached with the Workers' Party is good. I have registered that someone believes that it means a more stringent protection for the wild axis, while others believe that there are other shades attached to it. I'm not going to make myself a judge over it. I think that the proposal from the Government was good, but I also think that the compromise that has been reached through the work of the Committee is very good and very solid. It's not least predictable, because there are large parties that have joined it, and that's something we can continue in the future. Then I understand that SV is concerned about the award of concessions and refers to the Ministry of the Environment having done so. The representative of Langeland knows very well that it is the Ministry of Fisheries that awards these concessions. But we have a good cooperation relationship, and the Ministry of the Environment is also a consultative partner in these contexts. The representative Langeland says that he is pleased that the government has finally submitted a message and that it has taken time. The whole point is that there is no message here, there is a proposition, so the Storting today, through a plenary decision, will take decisions on the establishment of these salmon watercourses and salmon fjords. Then there will also be fjords where the wild axis has the right to drive, and the farms that are there will leave. So here, the wild axis that lives outside the world's best salmon rivers is going to have the right to drive. That's what's historic.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e868	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e871	A few days ago it was commented in some of the major national newspapers that the Storting was pending in relation to important issues, for example. That was the debate on the Iraq crisis. When you look at the hall today, in connection with this matter, which I will not simply compare with what is happening in Iraq, you will probably have to draw the same parallel, that the Storting should perhaps be more involved in matters that you consider to be important. But it is not necessarily such that the number of people in the hall is synonymous with the importance of the matter, because in that case I would have been concerned. What it's all about, however, is the protection of the wild axis. I think we have a big challenge in this case, because the last thing that matters is a balance between protection interests and business interests. Then, of course, there will be a political balance as to what best suits the individual parties, and that has shown the debate here today. At least it's a paradox to me that we now have an environmental protection minister who sometimes gets more standing applause from SV than from his own, but that's something I think Right has control of himself. I'm going to let that lie and not go any further into it. It is also the case that many types of protection have developed gradually in Norway, and it affects people directly and indirectly to a different extent. It is also the case that this hall sometimes worries a lot about moving away from the districts and moving to the larger center. Then I think that if we're going to be honest with ourselves, this is related. Its more protection we propose of a different character, of a different kind, the more it affects the quality of life, how people actually feel that they have it. Therefore, at least I think we should be careful to think that protection is beneficial in terms of quality of life. For some people it might be, because there are people who are more or less extreme in all variants and in all rentals, but I think the golden middle road has to be reasonable here as well. I think that with an increased bet on, among other things, breeding, which has been frequented, could be involved in and reduce the deportation from the districts. We also need to see this in relation to the business opportunities that exist. Furthermore, we've also been given some coastal protection plans that lead us to what kind of development we can have in relation to farming, which in turn imposes great constraints, and which we have to take inward when we're going to look at this. Then, in this case, there has been talk about the suspension of the temporary fused zones. It has been referred to when they were introduced, and it is probably almost so that there is a right of claim to leave them permanent, but I certainly hope not, although the proposal that lies here, at my discretion, is to keep those who are currently affected by temporary protection zones, too fooled. What you're doing here is you're saying you're going to cancel them out, but you're going to leave the consequence the same. So it's not possible for those inside today to apply for a new concession today, as I read the proposal. I assume that the majority have found that there should be logic in this. It's possible that it is, just that I don't see it, but you might have taken into account the flow of fresh water relative to salmonnus. You might have looked at escape problems to a greater extent than what you seem to have done, and you might have considered each fjord in a slightly different light than you actually have. I will allow myself to take an example from my own municipality. I live in a municipality as per. Today, at my discretion, has Norway's record in protection, where over 60 pst. the land area is protected by different protection plans. We also have a river that is protected, and of course we also got a temporary protection zone in our spring, which means that there are leads for the breeding. There is a fjord with a great flow of fresh water that makes it excellent, and there have not been any escape problems there, I am familiar with. But here the temporary protection zone is continued and those in this fjord are not given the opportunity to further develop their companies. I think that's destructive. You're going to knock them off again. Had it been climatic or other conditions that made it reasonable to continue driving temporary fuse zones, it should have been done. But it is not, among other things. in this fjord. Ergo, I think there's a bomb. Finally, I should like to comment on something that the Council of State said in the change of line today. He said something about predictability. If the Minister for the Environment, with predictability, believes that people should be kept in the dark, he may have done well. As I said, for those affected by the temporary protection zones, this is not a happy day. On the contrary, they're kept for fools of the bulk of the population, and I don't think you should do that. Then you'd rather call a spade a spade and either say that we should have them permanently, or you'd get them lifted out of respect for those who are affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e886	I am sorry that I was not in place in the right time, but a member of the Government kept me in an iron grip on the other side of the street here. I am impressed by the results of the agreement between the government parties and the Labour Party, which I can say with a certain degree of neutrality since I am not in the committee that has dealt with this particularly difficult matter. I have followed this matter carefully from the setting of the Villaks Committee until today's treatment. Actually, my interest extends back to when, as an eight-year-old, I took my first four-kilograms of wild salmon on the pole and up to today's demanding situation in my settlement area of More and Romsdal, with a significant breeding industry and a very large number of salmon rivers and salmon fjords. Today’s situation in large parts of the country requires precisely what the settlement has captured, a balance between protecting the wild species combined with the preservation of our very important breeding industry. More and Romesdal can be a typical example of an area in which one has to find a solution both for the breeding industry and for wild breeds. Both of them are of great importance. In this county, we find the country's heaviest research environment on genetics, breeding and breeding of several species of fish, not least salmon, which also has a significant impact on the export of knowledge. This means that the farming industry is very important for research as well as for business purposes. I agree that a person must pay very much attention to the causes that could threaten the wild species. The presence of wild Atlantic salmon is during the last approx. 30 years reduced by approx. 75 pst. Many Norwegian populations have fallen sharply, and many of them. 500 Norwegian populations are very vulnerable. Based on research, we know that there are a lot of conditions that can affect the wild species, for example. natural and not so easily explainable variations in growing conditions in the Atlantic Ocean, acidification of watercourses, hydropower expansion, Gyrodactylus salaris, physical interference in watercourses, taxation, salmon, evacuation of farmed salmon, etc. These are complex causes that require a wide range of measures and measures in the future. A contribution is the creation and management of national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords that Stortinget will adopt today. With such a decision, one could add up to major conflicts with the farming industry, but I think the majority here has acted very wisely. I support the creation of the named national salmon rivers, and I am very pleased with the compromise found by the majority through the specified outer boundaries of the proposed national salmon fjords. This means that you have an e.g. in More and Romesdal both protected proposed salmon streams and at the same time protected existing farms in e.g. The Halsafjord, the Sunndalsfjord and the Romsdalsfjord. I am more surprised that the Progress Party and SV cannot give their support to precisely these solutions. It is absolutely right to remove the temporary protection zones when one now establishes national salmon fjords. Maintaining the old bonding of such large areas would not help the wild axis. It is acceptable that no new concessions are granted in these former hedging zones until the Stortinget has subsequently completed the treatment of national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords, in the light of the overall watercourse plan. I agree otherwise with the Committee's strong focus on measures to prevent escape. It is totally unacceptable that the leakage of salmon again is sky high, which is very damaging. The figure mentioned earlier today — about 630,000 escaped fish in 2002 — is disastrous. This must be the responsibility and immediate action of the farming industry. Although salmon turf has decreased against wild salmon, this is not yet satisfactory and farmers, together with the authorities, need to intensify their efforts to reduce these hazards.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e914	The proposal for the establishment of national salmon fjords and salmon eel is an important step in the right direction in order to ensure the habitats of the Atlantic salmon. The Atlantic salmon has been lost for centuries against harmful human interference. In most of Europe, the wild species already disappeared in the 1800s as a result of pollution and the expansion of the major rivers. During the last 30 years, the total catch of Atlantic salmon has been reduced by 75 pst. In the United States, salmon are almost eradicated, and in Canada the population is reduced so that commercial fishing is not allowed. The situation of the northern European population is somewhat better. However, this means that Norway is now under heavy international responsibility to manage the remaining stock of Atlantic salmon in a sustainable way. We now alone manage nearly half of the total population. In Norway, the wild axis has disappeared from 60 watercourses and is currently under threat in nearly 200 rivers due to human influence. Swallowing the state of the Atlantic salmon is significantly better in Norway, we need to take action to prevent us from getting into a situation similar to that of the other countries. Today, the size has been given the opportunity to take decisions that can be absolutely essential to ensure the survival of the Atlantic salmon. It is good to note that the majority takes responsibility seriously. It is obvious that pollution, power development and salmon farming are the greatest threats to the wild axis. The Villax Committee therefore recommended stricter regulation and monitoring of salmon fishing, stricter requirements for hydropower development and fish breeders, and intensification of research into the problem of Gyrodactylus salaris, salmon and escapes. The majority, all lots except the Advance Party, acknowledge the need for restrictions in the farming industry if the wild species is to be rescued. The working party believes it is not a either – or, rather, a both – and. It is possible to have both an expanding and growing farming industry while at the same time having an active salmon fishery in our rivers. However, it means that the farming industry cannot obtain the right to drive in all fjords and that stricter requirements must be imposed on this industry. Swallowing about billions of income in the farming industry, we must not forget that salmon fishing also contributes to jobs and value creation in many small communities in the district of Norway. Coastal municipalities in Trøndelag have high incomes from farming. In recent years, they have had low unemployment and high economic growth. In contrast, the municipalities of the interior have experienced relocation and increasing unemployment. Their potential is linked to rural tourism and income from the large salmon rivers. In addition to the importance of care on the wild side from an environmental point of view, it is also important to ensure housing and employment in underprivileged municipalities. We can't afford to opt out of the environment and inland municipalities to fully maximize the profits of the farming industry. There is no secret that the Workers' Party could expect to go beyond what was agreed with the government parties. However, we are pleased with the outcome of the cooperation between the Workers' Party and the government parties. Through the compromise, the wild game has received a stronger protection than the government had proposed. We are particularly pleased that we are now introducing prohibitive zones for salmon farming in many salmon fjords, and not just saying no to new activities. The working party believes it is important to maintain that in most national salmon fjords it should not actually be farming. We have also been made aware of the fact that no new food fish concessions are to be awarded in areas that have been temporary protection zones until the next round of national salmon fjords and watercourses has been adopted by the Stortinget in 2004–2005. We are taking an important step in the right direction today. If that's enough, just future visions. However, through the final review in 2004–2005, and not least through active measures in the years to come, the Labour Party has good faith and hope that the wild species will be protected more effectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e942	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e945	The examination of this matter has gone on for a long time, and I believe that the Committee has gained both new and valuable insight and knowledge relating to the living conditions of the wild and the challenges of the breeding industry. The public investigation ‘For salmon for everyone can’t do?’ points to a number of threats to the valuable North Atlantic salmon strains. Much of this has also been followed up in the landfill of salmon watercourses and salmon fjords. Unfortunately, the debate has come out of focus by the fact that very much of the argument goes on salmon farming versus the wild species. In this way, one of Norway’s most important industries is stigmatised unfairly. In fact, the eradication of the 50 salmon populations is not caused by the farming industry. No, there are quite other reasons, which have received relatively little attention in the debate, for example: acid rain, watercourse expansion and – of course – gyrosis. I would argue that the presence of Gyrodactylus salaris in the spawning environment of the wild species is self-inflicted by the wild species industry, and must then be handled. Furthermore, we know that salmon sauce is a natural parasite that especially the farming industry is concerned with reducing to a minimum. Increased salinity in the sea gives better living conditions for salmonmus. The threats of the breeding industry to the wild are primarily about escape. This is a problem that the industry has to take seriously, and as it is actually also my impression that it does. The objective must therefore be a zero vision for escape, which is likely to be possible by increasing the focus on safe havens and special measures to avoid physical damage to the mercenaries. Labelling of salmon does not prevent escape. That's why the industry has been skeptical about this, a scepticism that I've also shared in the past. However, I see that labelling, for example. may be carried out together with vaccination of the fish, which will reduce the costs significantly. It may also prove to be a potential for value creation in this respect, since traceability and consumer expectations about product information can be optimised and thus meet a future market need. One of Norway’s main export industries will be served.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e957	During the last three decades, the world’s incidence of wild Atlantic salmon has been reduced by 75 pst. The Norwegian population has also been reduced, but we are still left with approx. 25 pst. of the total strain internationally. This means that Norway today has a unique presence of wildaxes, and we are considered as the nucleus of this species. In the United States, salmon are almost eradicated and included in the list of endangered species. In Canada, the population has been so reduced that commercial fishing is not allowed. The southern European population complex is also very weak. The situation of northern European populations is somewhat better. This information is an important back ground for providing perspectives on the situation of the wild and for pointing out that we also have international responsibility here. Many have asked whether we need special measures for the wild species now that salmon catches have risen sharply in recent years. It is true that the total catches have now doubled since 1997, although they represent only half of the catches in the 1970s. In Norway, one third of the remaining populations are still threatened or vulnerable. Clean products from a clean sea are classed for the Norwegian fisheries and aquaculture industry. It has a cost to preserve the Norwegian Atlantic wild species as a species, but it also has a cost if we eradicate it. We need to establish in Norway – much more than today – but the farming industry needs to be sustainable. The villa and farming industry must go hand in hand. Norwegian businesses largely live by long-term management of our natural resources. Fisheries and aquaculture — designated as the likely main industries on the day of the reduction of the petroleum sector — will depend on healthy marine and fjord areas and on being able to present an environmental profile at the global summit. The balance between environmental and industrial considerations is not always as simple, but I think that the final product in the context of this landfill proposal on the establishment of national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords has become a good product, which can address these concerns in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e972	In the course of the debate, questions have been raised as to why the Villax Committee has not been fully followed. In many ways, I could imagine that it would be natural. On the other hand, I have great respect for the hearings that the Committee is going to do. We've been to a lot of hearings, we've had a lot of recordings, and I'm assuming that most of the members of the committee have noticed that the research community has gradually developed a somewhat firmer view of what they really think is the main reason why the wild game is threatened. There is some reason why a thorough review has been carried out and not entirely followed the setting of the Villaks Committee. I actually asked for the floor because I was referring to proposal No. 18, by further review, it has come to the conclusion that the distribution of concessions was part of the budgetary agreement between the Government and the Advance Party before Christmas. For that reason, I get a little difficulty breathing when it comes to this particular proposal. It shall be such that, when contracts are entered into in the Storting, they shall be kept. You have to be credible in the agreements you make. On that basis, I would like to draw the proposal. On the other hand, we have made an agreement with the Workers' Party on this matter that we are now discussing, St.prp. No 79 for 2001-2002, which means that I cannot draw up the proposal without agreement. And there is no consensus about drawing the proposal. The proposal was promoted following strong pressure from industry, both because the industry is quite difficult to finance, and also because it would be fair and reasonable for those wishing to have facilities located within the temporary areas to apply for some of the concessions to be published. On the basis of what has emerged – the desire to be credible and the desire not to create problems for the cooperation we now have with the Labour Party in this matter – I ask that proposal No. 18 is converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e983	The representative, Leif Frode Onarheim, has moved on proposal No. 18 for a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e986	This is a good day for the wild. Since the setting of the Villax Committee NOU 1999:9, different governments have worked to reverse the negative development that was and is about to occur in relation to the wild salmon populations. It is very good that the majority of the committee, although not the Progress Party, considers it necessary to protect the wild species by establishing national salmon rivers and salmon fjords, even though catches in Norway have doubled since 1997. In Norway, we want to take care of the wilderness, but we also want to have an active business where farming is part of the business along our long-distance coast. For districts, this is a very important industry. It creates jobs and housing, and it creates values. I live at the Skjerstadfjord in Nordland, a fjord where the water is incredibly clean, as the Salt Stream cleans the top 100 m every 14 days. It is therefore very well suited for breeding, because there are no problems with salmonids. This fjord has had protection zones since its introduction in 1989, which, of course, has prevented farmers from further developing jobs. If the hedged zones have had any value for the wild axis, the learned ones are disputed. It is therefore appropriate that the Workers' Party and the Government Parties have agreed that these protection zones should be closed, even if it requires that no new concessions be granted for the breeding of salmon fish in these areas until the next round of treatment of national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords. At the same time, it is important that the economic operators who have had hedged zones are not deprived of all the possibility to apply for new concessions. For this reason, the Labour Party and two government parties have today submitted a proposal, as the representative of Onarheim has just mentioned, to withhold a reasonable number of the 50 food fish farming concessions planned to allow these economic operators to develop under possible new concessions after the next treatment. Now it's a transmission proposal, but it's there. It is also important that the Council of State puts forward the next case relating to salmon fjords and salmon watercourses, up to treatment as soon as possible in relation to the industry. The breeding industry is concerned with predictability, not only for itself and its development, but also with meeting the environmental requirements that the Storting now imposes on this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e997	I'm glad we're now getting better protection on the wild axis. Maintaining salmon species is important not only for biodiversity but also for preserving the natural life of our watercourses. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to contribute to a balanced solution between the protection of the wild species and the interests of the breeding industry and the possibilities for further development. However, it is the wild character, which in this context is the weak party, which has to be given the most consideration. I am pleased with the solution the government parties and the Workers' Party have found in the committee setting. In Trøndelag, Trondheimsfjorden and Namsfjorden become salmon fjords. That's good. I am also pleased that most of the good salmon rivers that flow into these fjords are protected as salmon rivers. I have recorded that most of the debate has been about salmon fjords, where the conflict has been greatest. The debate on rivers has been smaller, but in the wild, the highest value creation potential lies in rivers. It is therefore important to protect the good salmon rivers. In my county, Nord-Trøndelag, one in this round has not taken with Namsen and the Verdals River – two good salmon rivers. In my country, it is difficult to understand that fjords are protected, while the rivers that flow into these fjords are not protected. I see that the government will consider expanding the number of salmon watercourses in connection with the overall plan. I have clear expectations that the government in the next round will help to make the two rivers in my state, Namsen and the Verdal River, into salmon rivers. In this way, we can extend the protection of the wild species and develop salmon fishing in rivers as food routes. It's what communities want to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1010	There has been a strange end to this debate. In this regard, I would like to refer to the representative, Torny Pedersen, who said as follows: ‘This is a good day for the wilderness axis’ – and then to argue why it was important to lift the protection zone that was around her own living room door, in her own state, when it came to the Skjerstadfjord. Furthermore, Gunn Karin Gjul was concerned about the importance of restrictions in connection with this issue. You would actually think that we had a shortage of land in this country. Every day is a completely different one. If there's something in Norway, it's area. There is the opportunity for a breeding industry to really be able to root, to evolve and to achieve the export values that we have talked about in a number of celebrations in this country, and again and again from this pulpit. In 1989 52 temporary insurance zones were established. Some have been proposed removed, some have been proposed further. In this respect, I would like to point out that perhaps one of Norway's most remote salmon fjords, or breeding fjords, Storfjorden in Møre and Romsdal, is proposed to be maintained as a protection zone. The position of the protection zones which fell to 1989 must then be said to be very arbitrary. It would be thought that someone has looked at a map, put a line and said that here the protection zones should be, without seeing the potential of the individual fjords, and without looking at the salmon watercourses that lie within these fjords. If you were really interested in both the industry and the wild species, you would at least consider, as the Progress Party has proposed, the distinction between salmon and trout concessions. The rainbow trout does not have the opportunity to multiply by the wild-tailed axis, and then the government parties, if they had been involved in the industry, should be in favour of this proposal – not least have it investigated, which has not been done. Some may think of this as a good day for the wild salmon, but the undersigned see it as a disaster for the farming industry, because there is a lack of ability here to give priority to an industry that we will live on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1023	After the last post, it might have been tempting to comment on the lack of protection of the People's Party on the wild axis, but I will leave it to you for the sake of time. I have some comments on proposal No. 18, which the representative of Onarheim has now turned into a transmission proposal. From the Labour Party's side, I want to make it quite clear that in principle there is no need to draw the proposal or to turn it into a transmission proposal, because we believe that the proposal is very good. We also believe, given that the size is most likely to adopt a little later today, that this is a completely correct proposal. But we have understood that the government parties, as the representative of Onarheim, have had problems with a previous budgetary settlement with the Progress Party. I'm not going to comment on it any more. However, we will accept that it will be turned into a transmission proposal, but stress that the Workers' Party in any case believes exactly what is in the proposal. And we'll appeal to the Government not to distribute the remaining concessions at the speed of speed it was originally set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1030	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2090]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1050	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2094]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1082	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2094]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1099	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2094]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1115	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1124	The word ‘power crisis’ has been used many times in winter. The colder it's gone, the hotter the debate has gotten in. There has been no lack of concern about high electricity prices, nor about proposals to do something about it. Some of the suggestions are very good; others are probably less thoughtful. It's important to get things done quickly, at the same time as you have to think in the long term. As early as October, it was known that the power stations had abnormally low reserves for the season. Odd Roger Enoksen and signed on 23 October the document we are discussing today. The background to the proposal is that the flow produced by Norwegian Footfalls is a common resource that we must ensure benefits to everyone. The necessary power consumption must not become too expensive, but must be available at a price affordable to all. The three-four-fold double of the power prices we have experienced in the last few months is not acceptable. The centre part will recover some of the control with the power supply to improve dry year safety. Power producers have been free to dispose of the water that would be the basis for winter supply. And they have so absolutely done. It has been a good thing for a few years, but in dry years it can go quite wrong. Power prices are rising and becoming impossible to deal with for a good number of people. In addition, the emergency side must not be forgotten. The contradictions to this proposal were many of them in the beginning, but as the cold persisted and the magazines were increasingly confiscated, the arguments were that we could not intervene in a free market – rather on the contrary. In the new year, the newspapers were seriously concerned about this. In January, three of the big Oslo newspapers brought this topic up to the lead position, and there was nothing to say on the engagement. It was strong. With slightly different order, they expressed that the severe energy situation requires management. Administrations must take responsibility for preparedness, dry-cleaning, and thus ensure that there is water in the warehouses. Gradually, various political parties have also expressed their sympathy for the proposal. I won't quote anyone, but there's a good quote. The power industry has also received its passport in this context. It's not wrong to make money, but it has to be limits. The power industry has sold without regard to preparedness, electricity prices and social responsibility. But now it's the first time that politicians have to take social responsibility. It is the politicians who have to make sure that the necessary infrastructure works in this country. It is the politicians who have to design the legislation – and, if necessary, change it when necessary. That may be necessary now. And then the question is, what can a do? When the free market is not working, there is time for action. It will then be necessary to notify that the unloading of the warehouses will be limited. It can be done in several ways — either by coercion or by financial compensation. It was interesting to read the Minister's statement yesterday when he talked about conditions related to taxes and taxes. The instruments are therefore available – political will is crucial to their implementation. We can't keep getting old with the weather. From the NVE we are informed that the sea with a lot of rain this year will not be full for the autumn. So this is serious. I mentioned earlier that there are many good proposals for improving the current situation, and various proposals, which will also be addressed here today. Obviously, conversion to other energy sources is also very important, but it takes a long time. The proposal on minimum requirements for filling in warehouses differs from several of the other proposals, for this proposal concerns a system improvement. It is a long-term measure that can be implemented quickly, if it is a political will to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1145	The centre party and SV have a proposal that was not taken up by the representative Inger S. Enger, so SV takes up that proposal, which is based on a request from the Government to review the energy laws with a view to revising requirements for storage in water power plants at different seasons, as well as other regulatory measures. For the SV, it is important that the debate we now have on this proposal be clarified in relation to what the Government has now thought about when it comes to energy law. The setting says that the government party is notifying that a separate staging message will be delivered with a thorough review of the energy laws with questions related to energy security and energy supply. After the Energy and Environment Committee had presented the proposal, it has been said that this was not really meant by the government party. Then it is important that a member of the Council of State in this matter be made clear what he wants to do in relation to this matter. Together with the Progress Party and the Workers' Party, SV has called for a matter of network transmission, which goes on that issue. That's what I'm counting on. SV has only suggested that you look at the fixed-line issue. It expects us to come in this review of energy laws from the Council of State. In addition, SV has a more holistic proposal, which is based on a wish to review the energy laws that were adopted on 1 January 1991, with the then state council Reiten from the Senterpartiet in the head. There is so much reference to the situation we now had in the fall, and in ours, which makes it necessary for politicians to see whether they should not take any more power market control. It's the important signal SV wants to give to the government council; this has to go through in a proper way, so that one gets the consequences on the table in relation to the situation you've had in the fall. Otherwise, I will not go into SV's proposal for a review, but I hope that the Council of State in its article says something about how thoroughly that review will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1158	There is no doubt that there is a very serious situation in the energy nation Norway has come up with, and the most important thing now is to make sure to close the gap between what we use and what we produce. Then we have to get more power into the market, in order to avoid prices stabilising permanently at such a high level as is the case now. We believe from the Labour Party that it is unacceptable with such price fluctuations as we have seen this winter. On the basis of that, we believe it is necessary to assess parts of the Energy Act, energy security and energy supply. That is why we are in favour of this document being annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1165	The strong oscillations in the predictions that we have seen in the last year have put the power market on a hard test. Spring and summer 2002 were marked by a higher degree of conjecture than normal for the hydropower system. But this situation was replaced by a harvest with the lowest intention that has been measured since the registrations began more than 70 years ago. The high prices that have followed the development of the harvest have mobilised resources that have been needed to remedy the strained situation. Imports from non-Nordic countries have increased and unused capacity in the Nordic power market has been put into service. The latest figures also show that the total electricity consumption in Norway has fallen by more than 6 pst this year. compared to last year. Also corrected for temperatures we see a decrease in general supply in this order of magnitude. Although experience with this winter shows that resources are being mobilised in a difficult situation, it has also become clear that the fluctuations in the hydropower system produce results that are difficult to accept. This applies both to the short-term impact on consumers, i.e. to high prices, and to the requirements we set for acceptable security of supply. The voltage in the Norwegian annual hydropower production corresponds to half of the annual production in a normal year. With such a significant – and fundamental – uncertainty, it is necessary to ensure that the energy supply is better rusted than at present to deal with such a failure in production. Extensive measures will be needed and policies will have to be based on efforts in a number of areas, which together can contribute to the desired development. I therefore agree with the proposers when they point out that a review of the legislation is now important in order to see whether security of supply is properly taken care of today. As I have previously announced, the Government aims to present a big message on this topic. In this context, I consider it natural to make a more detailed assessment of concrete proposals for changes or measures that can contribute to a safer energy supply. However, these issues will require thorough professional investigations and clarifications with the other Nordic countries, as Norway participates in a Nordic electricity market. This also applies to the proposals put forward by the representatives of Mr Enoxen and Mr Enger. It is true, as Mr Enger has said, that there are many proposals of different quality – in the sense that perhaps not all proposals are just as well worked out and thought out. But initially, I think it's positive that there's ideas and input into the work that's now to be done in the ministry. I have also noticed that the proposers have changed somewhat the wording of their minority proposals. It has a different wording than the original one. There are also different proposals, where in some people the Government is required to come up with something faster to the Storting with feedback than what I had initially thought, so that the coordination of the big message that I had thought could not be carried out without further delay. It's the Storting that's in control. However, because some of the feedback is already requested in the revised national budget, I will not be able to coordinate it with the work on the Storing Message. Some of the feedback is therefore provided in their own documents, and some will be phased into the revised national budget. Let me conclude by saying that, in parallel with the work we are now doing for a long-term, stable security of supply, the ministry is also considering the ongoing need for measures that can remedy the strained power situation we have this year. This also applies to the readiness for next year's power supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1193	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1196	The Ministry of Energy and the Environment wrote in a letter dated 29 November to the Committee on Energy and the Environment that ‘substantial and long-term requirements for the filling of the magazine will contribute to the reduction of hydropower generation’, as well as ‘be a major intervention in the disposal of hydropower producers’. We would thus have a worsening of the situation if such an action had been taken in Document No. The 8th proposal. It has been claimed from different teams that the introduction of such requirements can contribute to a further price increase in electricity, and that prices would have increased at an earlier stage if we had had these requirements in winter. Do the Councils agree with these considerations? And is it true that perhaps an increase in prices would have been made in August instead of November if such demands had been introduced in winter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1205	I'd like to start by saying that I agree with the wording of the department for the committee – that should be self-evident. When it was formulated this way, it was to warn the Storting against taking decisions that could help the opposite of what we wanted – i.e. a greater degree of security of supply and, therefore, a greater degree of predictability in terms of production. Regulating the magazines the way I understood was the intention of Document No. The 8-proposal, in my view, is not appropriate. On the other hand, I commend the proposers for wanting to focus at an early stage on an important problem. They were probably better than both the Meteorological Institute and the State Council to predict what the weather would be like. It got a lot worse than the most skeptical of all. It is also right that the representative, Mr Vaksdal, said that with such regulation prices will also increase. However, there is a problem I will come back to Stortinget with. If a change in the market mechanisms will lead to a higher electricity price towards a greater degree of security of supply, I think both consumers, industry and government will benefit from it. What mechanisms can be involved, I must be allowed to go through carefully. But I do not ignore that increased security of supply will have a price. It is important that we use appropriate instruments that are targeted at what we all want.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1216	Let me start with a comment on something the Council of State said for a while, that some of the suggestions we are dealing with here today, not necessarily well worked through. That is something I agree with in the case of some people. But other proposals prove to be so good that the government makes them their own proposals, so here a distinction must be made between the good proposals and the bad ones. I am thinking in particular of the investment support – which we come back to – to make people less power dependent. There they've got a good idea from the proposal providers in Stortinget. So the problem settings are related to gross notification/revised budget. So, as I interpret it, this is going to be on the network transmission that the majority of people have requested is going to be in the revised budget. It comes in the revised budget, while a number of other issues relating to market management and the revision of energy laws – if one has to do something with its objectives – will come back to its own key message, and that will only happen in the autumn. I would like to have confirmed my analysis of what the Council of State said.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1226	I will, of course, deal with what Stortinget wants, in terms of feedback. However, there may be some conflicting interests between a quick feedback to Stortinget with answers to a number of issues and the opportunities to go deep into the problem and come up with different options, which will be more time consuming. I would say that if I were to need more time on some of these important issues than what is provided for in the documents, I would, of course, come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way and even present the choices that may be necessary for one to have the best possible process. This is how far I will relate to the deadlines that have been set. But if, as I said, needs arise that make it necessary to spend longer, of course, there is a problem I want to discuss with Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1233	It is quite right, as the Council of State said, that the proposal for a decision has changed a little. It's done wider and better, and I think there's been a development with the proposers in these months that's gone by. I have also noticed that there has been a development with others in this area here. That's fine. Then I almost have to go into it a little bit, because in a letter to the Committee on Magazine Filling dated 29 November 2002, the Council of State is very concerned about explaining that requirements for magazine filling are not a very good thing, and that such requirements will be a major intervention in the disposals of hydropower producers. But according to yesterday's Land, the Council of State says: ‘I have doubts that we have good enough rules to prevent us from becoming market fillers in extreme weather situations. We must provide conditions relating to taxes and taxes that encourage manufacturers to keep up the production of power." This is a brilliant development! Whether it is wise or needy, I do not know, but at least it fits very well with the comments of the Centre Party in this matter, where we are just saying that requirements for magazine filling may require some sort of compensation for the manufacturers. So to the question, what will the Council of State actually do to ensure that this action can be implemented so quickly that we do not have a similar situation next year? - We don't know the weather.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1247	First of all, I must thank you for the certificate that, as the representative Mr Enger said, I have had a positive development in the view of the necessary measures. First of all, I have to remind the representative, Mr Enger, that I am still very sceptical about the regulatory measures behind the proposal that have been promoted. I believe, as I also said in my reply to the representative, Mr Vaksdal, that this is not appropriate. It won't bring us to what we want. In fact, there is also a liability related to such an intervention, i.e. a significant economic cost. It has, among other things, by some professional organisations and stakeholder organisations have been identified as an incentive for the fiscal instrument. I mentioned this together with other things to Our Land. I have not yet considered whether it is appropriate to introduce such changes, for example: in the field interest rate tax, which could encourage a more appropriate production profile than that currently in existence. But at least these are the proposals that we will be considering. I must openly and honestly tell Stortinget that I have not drawn any conclusion on this matter. Some important considerations need to be considered. I am very concerned that the proposals that I would like to invite the Stortinget to take a decision are well worked out and targeted, and that they bring us what we want, namely that we have a secure supply of power at prices that are acceptable to consumers both in households and in industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1258	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5 [[Fotation, see page 2094]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1276	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1285	There is an interesting position the Committee puts forward in this matter. I believe this document No. The 8 proposal is a fairly good example of how it is possible, through private proposals, to raise a debate on issues that would otherwise not receive so much attention. We're not going to get back many months in time until the topic of two-way communications in the mains network produced nothing but a question mark in the faces of journalists. Yesterday, the newspaper brought a full-page report on why this is a good idea. I would therefore like to give tribute to the representative Sylvia Brustad for her initiative in this matter, and express the hope that future initiatives will be at least as forward-looking as this. All parties in the Committee have taken a positive view of a stronger commitment to the development of two-way communications in the mains power grid, reflecting the desire of both proposals in the configuration to link this with the review of different models of network tariff that the Ministry of Oil and Energy will submit to the Stortinget. Both the majority’s and the minority’s proposals also make it apparent that the question of how such development should be financed is to be discussed in this case. A stronger focus on two-way communication will have many advantages. In addition to being work-saving for power customers, the equipment allowing remote consumption will make it easier to introduce different models of differentiated electricity pricing, such as in the Netherlands, Italy and the United States. Two-way communication also provides opportunities to reduce power peaks. For example, network operators may disable hot water heaters as an alternative to darkening at abnormally high power peaks. In addition, such maximum load management may save transmission system operators for investment costs in the reinforcement of the network. The United States and Italy are probably the most advanced countries in the development of two-way communications. According to the NVE, this is already extended to 1.6 million customers in Italy, and it is a goal that all the 30 million customers should have this by 2005. In comparison, according to the NVE, it is only 1.3 pst. of the current monitoring points of the mains network in Norway. In addition, there are concrete plans for the development of two-way communication to 4.8 pst. of the measurement points by 2010. This illustrates the need for stronger national efforts in Norway, with more ambitious targets than existing plans set. In the context of EBL-Competence’s large-scale efforts, NVE has increased the income framework for Buskerud Kraftnet and Skagerak Net so as to cover the investment and operating costs of bi-directional communications to 5000 points of measurement each. Before this project is completed, the NVE will not consider increasing the income framework of any other company. In addition, there are no aid schemes for this purpose at present. This is why it is important to see this in conjunction with the announced case on the review of the network charging. In its reply to the Committee of 3 February, the Ministry confirms that this large-scale experiment does not involve the testing of progressive pricing, nor does it assess the potential socio-economic benefits of such pricing. In the opinion of the SV, it is therefore important that such an assessment be carried out in the context of the case of network charging. Such an assessment will make it possible to identify the responsibilities that society — through the state — should take in order to advance development. I am referring to that proposal in the vote that has been promoted by the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1306	Ingvild Vaggen Malvik has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1309	Let me first thank you for the praise of the rapporteur. I would like to send it back. I promoted this proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, before the situation we are experiencing this winter, with electricity prices that have shot in at unacceptable heights, which unfortunately does not make much sense to pay their electricity bills. I have to say that is embarrassing for the energy nation of Norway. We have to pursue an energy policy that allows everyone to afford to pay their electricity bills. The main answer to that is to do something about the force balance, so we can close the gap between what we use and what we produce. The proposal to introduce two-way communication has not become less topical with this winter. Here, in our view – and I am glad that some parties are already supporting it – a national strategy is necessary. The trials that are underway today are well and good, but we see no need to wait. I am disappointed that a majority will not already give a clearly positive signal today, so that people themselves can get the opportunity to have a smarter consumption and get paid in the form of a lower power bill. This is a technology that can provide many other opportunities that are good for consumers, and consumers can, of course, participate in and decide whether they will participate in this scheme. In our opinion, this scheme should be offered to all private electricity customers. If we get this across the country – and I hope so – we also need to have a good set of information, and we will, I think, be able to get good news. Then there will also be a good contribution to doing something about the impact situation. In addition, network operators do not need to expand infrastructure as much as they do now, to take care of the high consumption peaks. Reduced costs can therefore benefit consumers. There will, of course, be a need to develop technological solutions and communication systems for such systems to function effectively, but trials are underway, and more companies want to start this up as soon as possible. In itself, this will be an important contribution to the development of modern ICT infrastructure across the country. The massive support from which this proposal has been given, to say all the hearing bodies, is also gratifying, I have to say. But the more disappointing it is that not the government parties and the Progress Party will say a clear yes to this today. I hope, however, that these parties will see the value of two-way communication. I sincerely hope that also these parties, when we get the case of net tariffs for treatment in this room, may be ready to say a clear yes to the consumers, say a clear yes to this, which means that one can influence his own electricity bill, which I think is a very strong wish of many.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1324	I'll try to give some nourishment to Brustad's hope. The document No.8 that we are discussing today, we see in the Right as a well-intentioned recording of an overall thought, and as an attempt to gain better control of our own power consumption. There will undoubtedly be a step in the right direction if households – or rather consumers – can take advantage of the variations in the electricity price in the market. The right is therefore in favour of the principle of two-way communication and the proposal has many positive elements. Bi-directional communications can contribute to an even better functioning of the power market by providing customers with information on supply and demand in the market at all times. The costs of installing measuring devices and other technologies to make full use of such a principle are not fully clear, but must be considered significant. Therefore, it must be right in the Right’s view that two-way communication becomes an offer to the power customers, and not a directive. The cost side of the proposal is too poorly explained on a provisional basis. We therefore believe that it is wise to proceed a little slowly, so that we can provide alternative models to get funding and cost allocation between the supplier, the network company and the electricity customers well-lit. A consequence of such a market-based communication principle is also that it can make a positive impact on the balance of performance of parts of Norway. For example, in the South West, this may become a problem in times of stress. For these reasons, two-way communication is also a sensible proposal. But as I said, we want to see the results of the trials that are going on, for example. in Buskerud Kraftnett and in Skagerak Nett. Therefore, the right considers that it is natural to come back to this in the notified review of the network tariffs. In addition, the Storting should be presented with the consequences of alternative models, as mentioned above, and look at the trials in progress. We also believe that the project launched by the NVE, called Consumer Flexibility through effective use of ICT, can provide us with the necessary and new knowledge of this and can therefore be sensible to wait for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1335	I'll just say something pretty brief about this proposal. Bi-directional communication between electricity customers, suppliers and network companies can be an important measure to improve the power situation in electricity, while at the same time a good initiative can be taken to get customers to act at the right time if price incentives are introduced. However, the progress party would argue that two-way communication must be an offer to customers and not a imposition. Any introduction of such a scheme would entail costs for the purchase of the necessary technical equipment. It's per. at present, it has not been established who will cover those costs or whether they will be shared, where appropriate, between the supplier, the network operator and customers. The benefit of such a system must be taken into account if it is to be implemented. We would like to stress from the Progress Party that under no circumstances will we support the implementation as a mandatory scheme, but that this must be voluntary, usually based on economic incentives for users. We will therefore arrange for the Stortinget to be presented with different models for financing a voluntary two-way communication system between the electricity customer, the supplier and the network company, and for this to be addressed in the context of the notified review of the network tariffs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1346	It's an interesting document number. The 8-proposal we now have for treatment. The project currently being executed, including: Buskerud Kraftnet and Skagerak Net are actors, will provide us with useful information in the further work. The Christian People's Party and the other government parties are positive for the use of bi-directional communications, but the path to proper organisation and use is not clarified. The committee members have been shown how two-way communication can work. At the time when the tax on the network is high, installations, e.g. Hotkeys that draw a lot of power are turned off for a certain period of time. It will be centrally managed by agreement with the power client. This can reduce power peaks and reduce the need to build new, expensive powerlines. Societal economics will be a good two-way communication system. Now there are already attempts, as I mentioned, to improve the basis for seeing whether this will be a practical and good arrangement, and which user groups will have the most exchange of the scheme. The working party’s model does not show who will bear the costs of implementing the two-way communication system. The Government Party and the Advance Party suggest that the scheme be voluntary and not in the form of an order now. A review of the costs of introducing two-way communications will be a good match with the review of the network tariff tab, and that is in line with what is announced by the Government. We look forward to the government's review of the network tariffs tab. It would be natural to include two-way communications and other relationships related to the transmission and taxation of the network, as well as how the cost allocation should be. He must also include formulations and distributions of the new current arrangements with a view to enabling both users and society to benefit from them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1361	In my contribution to the examination of this Document No. The 8 proposal from the representative Sylvia Brustad has been positive for such increased use of two-way communication. I assume that the spread will increase as technology becomes more reasonable and the actors are better acquainted with the opportunity and the gain it can bring. I also notice that the Committee is in favour of using two-way communications in the mains, and of course I am satisfied with that. However, I note that there is some disagreement within the Committee on the Future. The use of two-way communications facilitates increased flexibility in consumption to reduce power peaks. This can bring socio-economic benefits, including: in the form of a reduction in investment needs in new generation and networks, while reducing the risk of coercive disconnection. However, there is considerable uncertainty about the overall usefulness of two-way communication for society. In the further work on two-way communication, I therefore emphasise the investigations that the NVE is now carrying out in cooperation with the power industry. These shall end in 2004. The results of this work will be important in the further assessment of the socio-economic profitability of the introduction of hourly and bi-directional communication. At the discretion of the Ministry, today’s regulations allow actors to install two-way communications if they find it profitable. The reason why two-way communication is no longer developed is the fact that it is currently expensive, while the above mentioned uncertainty is linked to the usefulness of such a measure. I take note that the Stortinget wants an assessment of different models for financing a voluntary two-way communication scheme already in connection with the tariff issue to be submitted to the Stortinget. At the stage we are now in relation to price and technology, I agree that it makes sense to focus on the voluntary solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1376	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1379	I am pleased that it now seems that everyone is positive to this proposal in words, but I notice that the government parties and the party of progress – and that is not surprising, because it says in the setting – a wait and look attitude, this needs to be investigated more, etc. I just want to remind you that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party in the setting say quite clearly for the first time – to the extent that there may be some uncertainty about this – that two-way communication should be an offer, not an order. And secondly, we suggest that the Government come back with proposals for funding in the case of the network tariffs. We have not said that we should take a decision on this today. I have to say that I'm a little uncertain about how the council now thinks about the further course. I see it this way – and it's a matter of course – that the Council of State is dealing with the decision of the Stortinget. First, the Council of State said that the efforts currently being made in Buskerud and elsewhere will end in 2004, but that one is still prepared to make some progress on the issue of network tariffs. And my question is: will the Council of State add up to an in-depth assessment of this in the case of the network tariffs, even if the other attempts have not been completed? And when is the Council actually going to bring the net tariffs? I think that in this area we are facing a situation that we also look at in other fields: if you want something, you have to do something! We don't have time to wait and see. Here I – and we heard that in the hearings we had in the committee – feel that there is total support to say from the environmental movement on the one hand to the industry on the other. They're asking for a little push, and they might be asking for a little carrot. I also believe that if you think that this makes sense – as I interpret all the fine words that have been said here – it is possible to translate the fine words into practical action. It's about will. If you really think this is good, it is also possible to get ahead of the case and add up to a race where the power industry is actually set to be involved. What does the Council of State think of the race that I perceive was a little unclear in the previous article?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1391	There should be no confusion in what I said about feedback to Stortinget. I have promised that I will take this along with the matter of the network tariffs. There has been a majority for network tariffs and two-way communications to be seen together. That means that I will not be able to take with me the experience of the trials that are now being done in the NVE, and that is the decision of the Stortinge. But that I want to do a thorough work on the basis that I have, and based on the experience that I have so far, is in the nature of the matter. I understand that the representative Brustad is impatient and believes that the majority here does not go far enough. I just want to remind the representative Brustad that when she was the government councillor of Stoltenberg, her colleague, oil and energy minister Olav Akselsen, put forward St.prp. No 1 for 2000-2001, which stated: ‘However, it is not appropriate to impose or otherwise impose regulatory measures to accelerate the installation of two-way communications by operators in the power market.’ And a little bit further down it says: ‘After the Ministry’s assessment, socio-economic food-benefit assessments of two-way communications remain so uncertain that it cannot be considered appropriate to introduce requirements or to implement other measures to stimulate development.’ These quotations are taken from the Ministry’s letter to the Committee dated 10 December 2002. And finally, the Council of State sums up this: ‘The reason why two-way communication is no longer developed is that it is currently expensive, while considerable uncertainty is linked to costs and benefits.’ What my predecessor did was very profitable to initiate these attempts to see how we could arrange two-way communications so that it could be implemented, with the positive attitude of both the Council of State and the Grand Council as a whole. But one has looked at the benefits of carrying out the tests before drawing the conclusion. I must take note that Stortinget wants feedback before it can happen, and I will do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1415	I am pleased with the clarification given by the Council of State here – that he intends to follow up on what the Stortinget is now proposing, and that this should be assessed in the context of the case of the network tariffs. However, in his statement he refers to what is stated in the letter sent by the Ministry to the Committee on «Insecurity related to socio-economic food-benefit assessments». In other letters sent to the Committee by the Ministry, it has been clear that some of the most positive societal benefits of introducing a greater degree of two-way communication into the grid will not be assessed by EBL’s large-scale tests at Buskerud Kraftnet and Skagerak Net. In this regard, my question to the Council of State has the background to the fact that the Ministry of Oil and Energy has now said that they will carry out such an assessment in relation to the matter of network pricing. You might get the impression that the department here has been pulled a little reluctantly after the hair, but now at least the government parties have said that they are going to deal with this matter in the context of the network pricing. And then my question to the Council of State is: have you now realized that the cost-benefit assessments that have been used so far in the case of two-way communications in the mains power grid have been somewhat flawed? It will be my conclusion at least on the basis of the position we have on the table today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1424	No, I do not consider the cost-benefit analyses that have been available to date to be inadequate. But it is clear that there is an interesting and positive development in technology. New technologies and sophisticated innovations in this technology also lower the price. Therefore, of course, the cost-benefit analyses will show more positive figures as technology is allowed to be applied to these devices, and that is why I see for myself that after a very short time this will be both profitable and useful installations. What we need to look into is the context in which such an installation will have a clear cost-reduction effect, the extent to which it should be introduced, the most cost-effective technology, etc. We will be able to receive these answers in part, but especially after the end of the NVE experiment in 2004. I take note that there is a positive impatience in the Storting in knowing something already now, before these cost-benefit analyses and trials, which were thus initiated by my predecessor Olav Akselsen, are over. I take note of that, and I'm open to do that. There are certain limitations to feedback. However, as much as diet-benefit analyses have developed, of course, the department's assessments will also have such a development. I think we should at least get together on one thing: this is a technology that comes, it will be cost-reducing for the customer, and it will also relieve the network. So there will also be a socio-economic saving in such a technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1435	Now it's always interesting to draw out what previous statesmen from one or the other party have said. State Council Steensnæs now did so in relation to Olav Akselsen. I could probably also draw quotations, from party traps of Steensnæs in different contexts and in different cases, without that in itself leading the world so much further. I would like Steensnees to be more closely related to the situation we are in the middle of. We have a very serious and worrying energy situation in Norway, how many people have problems paying the bill. It's actually urgent to do something in more areas. I feel that the answer we get from the Government when we put forward suggestions on different things is that we get this figured out, we get to follow developments, and we have to wait and see. I still feel that it is unclear what the council thinks about this. I hear he says that these will be profitable and useful installations. I fully agree with that. It is good that the Council of State takes note that there is a majority in this house that at least wants him in the case of net tariffs to come back to how this should be done. But my appeal to the Council of State is in addition: can't the Council of State now sit down with the power industry, which is positive to this and wants to get started, to get ahead of this? If you want to do this, you don't keep it in good words. You don't have to wait until 2004 or 2005. I am absolutely sure that the power industry can provide many wise answers to the Council of State, which has been given to the Committee, on how this can be done, and what can be done to bring this about as quickly as possible. The power customers are asking for it. Current customers are asking for permission to have a smarter consumption, and in this way they are allowed to influence their own electricity bill. Why should a contest against it, in the sense that one should spend more time than is necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1442	No, we're not going to spend more time than is necessary. It's urgent. We don't have to wait and see, but we have to act. But we should also act in such a way that what we then conclude with becomes appropriate and with the best technology we can offer in the market. It was not intended to plague neither the representative Sylvia Brustad, the Workers' Party nor anyone else. This wasn't an exercise in trying to say that others had said something, so then I didn't have to do anything, but it was to show that there's actually a connection between the assessment of my predecessor Olav Aksensen and my own assessment of the need to look at different aspects of this. The difference between the assessment he gave at the time and my assessment today is that we have come to see that new technology gives us these opportunities. We've come a long way further into seeing that this is going to be a technology coming. It's just a time question, and then there's a question of technology choices. This is requested by the customers, yes, but it is clear that if they are going to pay 1500 kroner or what is the price today for such a technology, the interest will probably be relatively limited compared to whether we could deliver a technology that was more cost-effective than that. It's fast so that this can be a technology in line with heat pumps, it requires one to go above an investment threshold, and then it becomes profitable in the longer term. But today we do not have a clear overview of which technologies will be the most profitable, which technologies are the most applicable, and which customer groups, for example, should most appropriate use such technologies. I hope that the Stortinget sees positive what the department is doing to get a result here. Of course, I want to deliver a report, as I have said. But there is an evaluation a little further in time that will also provide us with useful information.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1449	The chord shift has been completed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2094]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1467	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1476	Document No 8:32 for 2002-2003 deals with proposals for the introduction of support measures for people who will become less dependent on electricity. A majority of the Committee refers to St.prp. No 42 for 2002-2003 on the allocation of measures aimed at reducing electricity consumption, which is currently being treated in the United Kingdom, as well as the response given by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to outline loan schemes for energy-oriented actions. By these references, the majority of the Committee considers that the intention behind the proposal in Document No. 8:32 for 2002-2003 has been respected and it is proposed that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1487	When we dealt with the climate report last spring, we were on a committee trip to Sweden. It was a teaching trip in many ways, and one of the things we talked about on that trip was that the Swedes have more bioenergy than we have in Norway, because they have a basic infrastructure that is much better developed, namely waterborne heat. If you have the waterborne heating infrastructure in place, you also have the basis for a flexible heating system. And one of the reasons why one has been so much more provoked over high electricity prices in Norway is that so many depend on electricity for heating their home. SV often boasts of Sweden, and that's good reason. But we must not forget that, unlike us, the Swedes have built nuclear power stations. When our predecessors built the country in the 1960s – without a pipe, but with a panel oven – it was because they thought it was environmentally friendly. However, as electricity consumption has increased, it has become clearer and clearer that electricity production and use also have environmental consequences. And today we see that it makes those who only have panel furnaces and no other alternatives very vulnerable on the day the power prices rise. I fully agree with what is a very important premise in the proposal for SV, namely that using electricity for heating is using a high-quality energy source when one could often have used other energy sources, for example. bioenergy. We in the Workers' Party agree with the proposers that it is important to provide support schemes that make people less dependent on electricity for heating. And when Stortinget dealt with the energy message, we suggested both the investment in heat pump and increased investment in bioenergy. We therefore support the intentions of the proposal to the SV. In the case of heat pump, the Government has promoted a separate case on support measures that we are going to deal with later today. In addition to that, we believe that this is a matter that we should deal with in the context of the State budget. Sweden is a fine country with a social democratic government, and the very measures they have proposed may be the best, but it may also be that the very things they propose are not the best solution here in Norway. We therefore ask that the Government return to the State budget with proposals on how this can be done. Among other things, it should consider the recordings we have received from the Norwegian Remote Heat Association. They show that guarantee schemes enabling banks to provide lower interest rates to those wishing to install waterborne heat are a better tool than grants. In addition, this must also be seen in the context of the issue of green certificates, which must be dealt with by the size of the gas message. We challenge the government parties to come back to this in the state budget, so that we in the Stortinget can see the different proposals in a larger whole. If we want, we have good opportunities to make people less power dependent than today. The working party wants, as we say in the Inner. S. No 133 in the case of aid for heat pumps, which we are going to deal with later today, that the scheme ‘must also be permanent’. We also ask the Government to consider support for clean-burning furnaces. The working party will facilitate increased commitment to renewable energy, including bioenergy. The Workers' Party believes that the Government must also consider loan and guarantee schemes as an instrument for the development of waterborne heat. For the time being, the government parties do not agree to ask the Government to return to the government budget with proposals for how this can be done. I hope it's a challenge the government takes. If the Government meets the demand for a better energy policy, they should do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1507	First, I would like to address the proposal in the vote. Last week we discussed the issue of electricity costs to people who are unable to pay the electricity bill. What we were most concerned about in that debate was getting people out of the trap, and that this doesn't have to happen again. And how are we going to do that in an environmentally friendly way? Now, I'm a little excited to hear that it seems like more parties are drifting at a lot of different points when it comes to putting in more environmentally friendly energy and helping people out of the power trap. However, I am still not sure that you are in place to fulfill the promises in this case, as I was not sure about it when it was about helping people with the electricity bill they could not pay. I think we're going to have a fight here from the grant scheme to the future grant scheme, but I just want to say that SV is going to be ready for that fight. We have to do this. People aren't particularly concerned about polluting and wasting or getting big power bills, people are busy having hot water in the shower, having it hot in their living room and – some of whom are also sure to be concerned about – that the skirt should be cold, not because you've used a lot of kilowatt hours to get it to. Then it's important that we get in place and support schemes that make people not dependent on electricity, that they can use other, environmentally friendly energy, where the price is much more stable than what it is on power within the regime we have today. It is also important that we get a fairly large volume of alternative energy suppliers to consumers. If we don't know that there'll be expensive electricity, and it'll be hard to access. Those who want to deliver this energy depend on the fact that there are many people who can use it quickly, because then there will also be a good store for those who want to run it. That's what SV thinks is tricked. Therefore, support schemes must be such that even people with not very good advice get a profit that they can take out quite quickly, both in the wallet and in their environmental accounts. Infrastructure is a problem. Once it's in place, it's cost a lot, and that's why it's expensive to do things over again. Therefore, it is very important that everything that is being built is prepared for waterborne heat, so that double expenses are avoided. It is obvious that the grant to the individual, as it is today, is too low. I also think it is a bit striking that you can't see a little more about Sweden and look at what they've got. They have actually succeeded. So why you're so busy finding your own solutions, when others have good solutions that have worked out, I think it's strange. So until something I think has been very striking in the matter of getting more power, and that's the approach that the Workers' Party's representative in the Energy and Environment Committee, Sylvia Brustad, has to it. Sylvia Brustad is a hot defender of gas power plants. There's no need to be that for people to have it warm in their houses in Norway. On the contrary, fighting for gas power stations is fighting for expensive electricity, large pollution and many jobs in the West. But for me, which is the biggest representative of Hedmark, it is much more natural to fight for environmentally friendly energy at a stable and sensible price, and jobs, among others. in Hedmark. Reports and investigations are now available, including: from the county of Hedmark, indicating a level of 200-300 annual works per year. 1 000 GWh. There are many jobs, which the country needs — inland, which have no part of the oil and gas economy in the West, and which do not have any part of the fishing and farming industry, which we have discussed before today, and which I had expected the inland politicians to be stuck behind. A major investment in bioenergy, which is Hedmark’s ‘oil’, will provide environmental benefits, create many secure jobs locally, develop forward-looking technologies based on domestic – domestic – the area that is the most dependent – and develop skills in energy use and domestic energy production as well. That's how you hit a lot of flies in a taste, and we're securing people against too high power bills in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1522	The representative, Andersen, has taken up the proposal to which she referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2095]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1540	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to 3 lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1549	It was with great wonder that I heard Karin Andersen say in the previous debate that my commitment to gas power was to mean that we fought for expensive electricity. Where that logic belongs, I don't know, because that actually means the opposite. In addition, I also think it is quite free to criticise the Workers' Party to fight for animal power, we who have used this whole winter and previous periods to fight against animal power to get the electricity bills down. And it's especially free from a party that's quite alone in actually wanting higher power prices. I just had to say this. On the other hand, I think the proposal we are now going to consider, to see if it is possible to find differentiated systems that will give you a fairer system, is more interesting. There is a majority in the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the SV and the Centre, which supports the decision to ask the Government to set out different models of differentiated taxes on electricity and to submit any proposals in the revised national budget in spring. I mean, like a majority, it's worth looking at whether you can find models that make you get a fairer system. Here there are slightly different angles of incidence relative to that, but the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have for their part, among other things. For example, in the United Kingdom, there is an increase in the number of drug users in the EU and the number of problem drug users in the EU. may assess a differentiated charge with a lower charge for low consumption and a higher charge for higher consumption. An assessment may be made of an exemption from the electricity charge or of a base deduction for a fixed number of kWh. It is possible to assess different charges for dwellings, holiday homes and cabins. It is possible to look at the differentiated price at different times of the day by introducing two-way communication, or there may be completely different models. This is what we want the Government to look at now, and to make a decision on this in the revised national budget. With these words I would recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1562	The question of two-price systems for electricity has been assessed a number of times, including: by the government of Jagland in 1996, and by the then central party councils of Arnstad and Restad in 1999. The conclusions of this work have shown that the schemes that have been investigated so far have little certainty as to the distribution of income and to reduce the consumption of electricity. In the Energy Communication to the Government of Bondevik, as I mentioned, the administrative costs of a two-priced electricity system were assessed, and they were found to be disproportionate in relation to the possible distributional gains that could be achieved. Instead, it was suggested that adverse distribution effects of increased electricity charge were compensated by increased minimum deductions, class deductions and increased minimum pension/dwelling aid. In 2000, a working group consisting of members of the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Finance issued the report «Assessment of a progressive electricity charge» to the Ministry of Finance. The working group dismissed the introduction of a progressive electricity charge. This conclusion was supported by the government of Stoltenberg in the 2001 budget. A progressive electricity charge could result in unintended distribution effects. For example, electricity consumption is higher on average in families with multiple children and in households living in houses with high heating needs, e.g. in bunkhouses, and consumption is also higher in scattered areas than in cities. The proposal could therefore affect families with young children and the rural population in the form of increased electricity charges. When it is now difficult to calculate both the distribution effect of a charge in advance and its ex post identification, this is due to the fact that a good affects all consumers. The distribution effects must be kept under constant review against the costs of introducing the differentiation. But now it's like there's always new things that can happen, and the assessments that have been made, don't always have to be 100 pst. correct. Therefore, the Government will again present an investigation showing the impact of a two-price system on electricity through a differentiated electricity charge. On this basis, the Government also wants to support I and II in the suspension, as the Council of State has already announced that this will be considered in the context of the revised State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1577	The proposal for a differentiated electricity charge has been raised and evaluated on several occasions in recent years, as also mentioned by the representative Onarheim. However, it is difficult to find a system for this that is both accurate and fair. From our political point of view, we would have preferred that the electricity charge had been removed in its entirety. In this connection, I refer to our alternative state budget for the current year, where we proposed more than a halve of the electricity charge, but for which we unfortunately did not get through. We have also proposed several times the return of the state's extraordinary revenues in winter as a result of the increase in electricity prices, but also not here received support from any other batches. The last time we proposed this was in January, and then Stortinget would not even consider the proposal. A two-price system based on a differentiated charge may initially look reliable. However, investigations have shown that this has little success safety, and there is a great deal of uncertainty about this at all will have some influence on the power consumption. In addition, there are many practical difficulties with such differentiation, as also emerged during the committee hearing. An introduction of a two-price system based on a differentiated fee is administratively complex and can provide incentives for so-called creative measures to avoid the progressive link. For example, one can install several current meters, and one can split the household. Nor will such a scheme take into account the real power needs of the household and can therefore be very unfortunate for large families. In addition, such a system may adversely affect those who currently have no possibility of heating other than on the basis of electricity, nor does it have the possibility of installing alternative heating facilities. However, the Progress Party will support the Government’s ability to assess and come back to different models of differentiated electricity charges in the context of the revised national budget, provided, of course, that the weaknesses of such a system as I mentioned earlier are properly reviewed and that, hopefully, solutions can be found to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1590	It was probably more than I got a pick-up on Thursday morning last week when we saw the head of the committee, the representative, Brother Yngve Rahm, who argued on the TV 2 news about the importance of investigating a two-price system on electricity. The reason for the surprise can be easily read in the Committee's position, where the government parties do not support the majority's proposal to ask the Government to carry out such an investigation against the presentation of the revised national budget for 2003. But of course, it is gratifying that they are now joining the proposal. We're the ones who originally made up the majority, very happy. On the TV 2 news, the committee leader went one step further, he also argued why a two-price system is a good idea, and I quote: ‘It’s a good idea because of course it can help to distribute the power consumption a little, we get reduced power consumption. And not least, it can turn a positive effect on the electricity bills of people when they get there." For us, perhaps, it was the most positive news of the TV 2 feature. The investigation proposal had in any case the majority behind it, but the fact that the chairman of the committee also gives arguments as to why it is a good idea to introduce such a system is very happy. It is therefore with expectation that we look forward to the follow-up of the state councils in the context of the revision. Otherwise, this is with a two-priced or differentiated electricity charge, as it says in the proposal, a good, old SV proposal, and we think it is very nice that the idea has now been echoed by the political majority. In fact, we believe that there should be a difference in the charges for the current to cover the basic consumption, and the current that goes to the heating cables in the driveway to the cabin on Hafjell. It's more socially fair, and it's also in line with a thought that electricity is a common good that we'll all be able to benefit from. But in order not to be over-exploited in the common good, progressive taxes are necessary, so that over-exploitation is punished more severely. This is how we can counteract the Tragedy of the Commons, the tragedy of the general public, to refer to Garrett Hardin's old classics, on the power market, disconnection and blackmail, a breakdown because the consumption becomes too high. Most people know that California has just had this problem, a power crisis that led to disconnection and darkening. To counter the crisis, California introduced a progressive pricing system in 2001 based on the ‘these who use more will pay more’ principle. This system involves a five-price system with a progressive electricity charge at the top. This example shows that differentiated prices are possible and that they have actually been implemented elsewhere in the world. In fact, we already have a two-price system for electricity charges in Norway, given that many large consumers actually have exemptions from these charges. When, in addition, the Directorate for Customs and Charges is now in favour of transferring the collection of the electricity charge from the power companies to the network companies, an important practical objection to the system has also been removed – if the Government follows up, of course. Even if you switch power suppliers, you cannot change the network company in the same way. In addition, if we can put in place a stronger focus on two-way communications in the mains power grid, conditions will be even better suited for a more fine-masked differentiation in the electricity charge than just a single two-way distribution. This is where I'm questioning whether the Council of State has done its homework. The Ministry has responded to the issue of whether the NVE has assessed the socio-economic benefits of progressive pricing or progressive charges in the event of a stronger commitment to the development of two-way communications in the electricity grid. So my question is: has the Council now understood what I am asking about, and is he going to announce that he will now make an assessment of the socio-economic benefits of two-way communications in the power grid?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1612	I had initially not intended to take the floor, as the representatives Mr. Waksdal and Mr. Onarheim have actually said what I can stand for. I could have actually borrowed their manuscripts, so it would have been underlined three times. Anyway, I just want to take the word very briefly to replicate a little bit to the Vaggen Malvik, as commending, though perhaps with a little bit of underlying ironic thought, referred to an entry of the news on Thursday and my argument there. In my opinion, it is nothing, neither in the setting nor in what appears, which in itself weakens what appeared on TV 2. It's precisely because I think everyone agrees that this is a scheme that can have its positive effects, among other things. in the form of a distribution of electricity consumption and also in relation to the price of electricity to the individual consumer. It is not the goal that is the problem here, but how to deal with it in a practical way. There are at least several investigations that have concluded that it is very difficult to obtain a system that works satisfactorily in relation to the performance assurance, which was in place by Mr. Waksdal, and the costs of managing the scheme. We know that based on the models you've been working through so far, it seems to be shifting socially from some user groups who in periods of life will need extra power, and who may be characterised as groups that need relatively reasonable power. I think of families with children and some older people with large, older houses that may be uninsulated etc. We have a distribution problem associated with this. It has actually not been possible to find models as far as that could have met it. At the same time, the Council of State, Einar Steensnæs, in a letter to the Committee, has stated that, despite the fact that this has been subject to many times by different governments, he will not object to reconsidering the possibilities for establishing a two-price system and thus also avoiding the problems I have pointed out here in relation to administration, costs, social distribution, etc. So on that basis, the government fraction has nevertheless found that we can support this proposal here, and that the Council of State will come back with any proposals for models, if that is possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1625	It is very nice that a joint energy and environmental committee today has presented itself with an investigation into a differentiated electricity charge, or, as it is called on the public mouth, a two-price electricity charge. This matter has been fought by the Center Party for many years, but it has been difficult to hear about it – not among the people most, because they think it is a good thing, as they understand. Most people think it's reasonable that one should pay more for luxury than for necessary consumption. There were professionals who thought it was difficult to implement. As the representative of Onarheim also mentioned, there were various investigations that went against this. So the more joyous it is that a whole committee goes in to investigate it. Many years ago, there was something that was high on the normal price of electricity. If the households used more, it was called over-consumption and then paid. So it worked out before. But luckily, one might say, the serious situation on the electricity market has made such an impression on the entire political environment that the two-price proposal finally comes forward. A two-price system on electricity shall prevent the necessary consumption from becoming too expensive. At the same time, it shall stimulate the avoidance of waste power. A price system in which households can buy a normal consumption of electricity at an affordable price, while higher consumption is more expensive will be fair. It will also stimulate power savings. Electricity consumption has increased steadily in recent years, and approx. 40 pst. the consumption by households in Norway for space heating. In this way, Norway differs from most countries, so we use electricity to a large extent for heating purposes. We also need to be aware that many households depend unilaterally on electricity as a source of heating. It makes Norwegian households particularly vulnerable to price fluctuations in the electricity market. It is therefore important that we are also careful about and better able to switch to other forms, such as: waterborne heat, because the potential for power saving is high. In addition to saving electricity, it will have the important effect that it will be profitable to switch to heat pumps, bioenergy, waste heat, etc. Finding out different models of differentiated electricity charges is important. The government has got quite a short time on it. Already in the context of the revised national budget, the proposal, if any, shall be presented. It's going to be exciting to see what comes out of this. We know that in other countries, electricity prices are high. Fees may be graduated from zero on the basis of basic consumption, while they may be excessive. The proposal lists different criteria. There are many current items. I'll just mention a few: The consumption charge must be set in such a way that it pays for everyone to save electricity.The charge must be set so that it is not interesting for households to install several meters of electricity in the same dwelling.The network companies should probably take over the charge.The charge should be calculated on a scheduled basis of electricity consumption, so that it becomes visible throughout the year. Here's a lot of elements that you're going to have to drag in. Like others here, I look forward to having the Government's proposals for the details of this scheme in the context of the revised budget in June.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1653	Let me just start by saying that I don't think anything else – perhaps except for the supplementary scheme for heat pumps and pellet stoves and energy management systems – has got more attention in the press this winter to improve the situation in the power market than this measure on a two-price system on electricity. In relation to the expectations now being expressed, I must also say, having regard to what the representatives Vaggen Malvik and Inger S. Enger now said when it was a pleasure that this proposal for a two-priced electricity system has now had an impact: the question of a differentiated electricity charge has been raised and evaluated on several occasions in recent years. The first time was after the difficult situation in the power market in 1996 – when Jens Stoltenberg was Minister of Energy – was with little regard for the hydropower plants and high power prices. The question was also discussed in connection with the notification of St. Announcement. No 29 for 1998-99, the Energy Communication, which was presented by the then State Council Arnstad – just as a comment that this has fought the Center Party for many years, as the representative Inger S. Enger said. After this, an inter-ministerial working group was set up to look at the matter. You would do this thoroughly. The report, entitled ‘Assessment of the progressive electricity charge’ of June 2000, highlighted the fact that a progressive charging system would lead to high administrative costs. The cost of monitoring would also be high, because a high level of consumer activity has to be taken into account in order to avoid the progressive joint, for example. by splitting up the power consumption on several meters, as also referred to by the representative Vaksdal. The studies also show that a progressive electricity charge could result in unintended distribution effects. For example, electricity consumption is higher on average in families with multiple children and in households living in houses with high heating needs, e.g. Floor building. Consumption is also higher in scattered areas than in cities. The report concluded that a differentiated electricity charge should not be imposed. The main points of this report were presented in the 2001 State budget. A total financial committee took part in the budget-inwards. S. No 1 for 2000-2001 the presentation of a progressive electricity tax for information purposes. The size had no comments on this. So now, the Stortinget Government is asking for different models of electricity charging and, where appropriate, for proposals to this effect in the revised 2003 national budget. I'll do that. There are several possible designs of such a differentiated electricity charge. The main lines of division are linked to the degree of differentiation and the number of sections of a differentiated charge. In addition, I see that the Committee in its position points to a possible additional criterion based on different charges for dwellings and holiday homes and cabins. The departments concerned are now preparing a feedback to the Stortinget in the revised national budget on these points. I also see in the committee setting that the differential price over the clock has been drawn out as a model in this context. Here I would like to refer to the answer to Document No. 8:139 for 2001-2002, on two-way communication, which the Stortinget has just discussed. I have expressed a positive opinion on a new review of a system of differentiated electricity charges. I think it's useful to remember the arguments and objections that have been, but also to look at new opportunities that may have emerged. But I have to refer to the objections that have previously been raised to such solutions, and as a background to be able to look for a scheme without the disadvantages that have ensnared by previous proposals. A further discussion of this will be taken when there is such a review, in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1672	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1675	I will once again be allowed to express my joy at the fact that the government parties have now joined in the proposal to investigate this more closely with the two-priced electricity charge, even though in this case I cannot free myself entirely from the image I get on the web of a government that is driven from the skimmer to the skimmer in these power cases. We should also come back to that in the case of aid schemes, in a later debate. In our opinion, two-price, progressive pricing of charges is important in terms of stimulating power savings. It's important because it gives greater social justice. It is also important to stimulate further energy conversion, away from direct electricity as a source of heating. However, I do not think the Council of State gave an answer to the question that I challenged him on in my post, the connection between two-price, progressive pricing and a stronger deployment of two-way communications in the power grid. It is a fact that the Committee has received a response that the socio-economic benefits of progressive price increases in relation to two-way communications in the grid have not been assessed – I do not stress – and that there is also nothing that will be assessed in the EBL’s large-scale trials in Buskerud Nett and Skagerrak Nett. It is therefore up to the Ministry to make the socio-economic cost-benefit assessment of how this can be seen in the context. Here I think the Council of State should give an answer as to whether he understands the problem, if the Council of State can now say that he wants to announce that he will undertake such a cost-benefit assessment to see how a stronger deployment of two-way communications in the mains power grid can facilitate a more progressive pricing of the charges, without entailing the practical disadvantages that have previously been encountered as objections to two-price electricity.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1693	I think I understood what Mr. Ingvild Vaggen Malvik said. I'm positive, I think, to that problem, because it'll be an opportunity to connect the two important considerations, regardless of whether this is part of the premise for the trials that are now taking place. So I think I should be able to take care of that. There is a difference between agreeing to investigate and pre-concluding what you need to get out with. I understand that there are different expectations in Stortinget for that. Some have strong faith that this can be achieved without the distortions previously identified. I'm quite open to looking at it without prejudice, so that we can get all sorts of new models that can give us success assurance both in terms of income distribution and in terms of reducing the consumption of electricity. What I want to ask is that you are willing to look at the realities of what is being presented, that you look closely at the different balances and are willing to draw the necessary conclusions from it. If you have that starting point, I can't help but understand that government and biging can easily unite into a common conclusion. From my point of view, a new review has been put forward to see whether new technologies and opportunities can lead us to conclusions other than those previously reached by the governments with the support of previous accumulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1702	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1707	It is not often I agree with the Council of State Steensnæs, but I am, in fact, about the reservations he makes in this matter. There is a lot to say about the energy policy we have been pursuing in Norway in recent years. There can be no doubt that it is the political emergency unit of the whole Storting – I stress: the whole Storing – has shown, which has led to the high prices. In my opinion, the two-price proposal on electricity is a very difficult system to handle. The government would like to investigate and investigate. All the parties have now said something about that. But it is true that a number of governments have previously also investigated and investigated, without any concrete proposal. There's a reason for that. An introduction of a two-price system means that a limit must be set for x the number of kilowatt-hours to get a low price, and that means that x the number of kilowatt-hours above a certain level will get a higher price. Many who believe that it is fair to introduce a two-price system, a low price and a high price, live enough in the belief that it is precisely their own consumption that will always come below the lowest limit. It's not going to be like that. For example: avoid burdening families with a higher electricity price, the limit must be set at a high level, for an average consumption for a family of children is 27000 kWt per year. General supply, which a number of companies get, what kind of limit are you going to have for them? That's another question. Nor can it be that there should be a ban on having multiple current meters. Many houses have rentals in the basements. They've already broken up the current initially. However, it must not be such that a household can have multiple meters for thus always per. measures below the set kilowatt limit which will be the magic limit of the lowest price. In other words, it must not be the energy policy that, with a possible two-price system, we go back to imposing on power companies major administrative functions and control functions with which they will again have additional costs and which must again be passed on to consumers. I believe that a two-price system opens up grey areas and opportunities for large adjustments. The government would like to investigate and investigate, but I would be surprised if the government were to find a two-price system on power that would be perceived as fair by the consumer when it comes to the problem. For my part, I just don't think this has anything special to do with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1722	I have been silent and followed up in the debate in which the members of the Committee and the Council of State have taken part. I had originally not intended to say anything, but when the representative Brörby comes up and condemns the proposal that the Labour Party and others have made to outsource, north and down because some workers' party governments probably haven't got it, it became necessary to take the floor. You don't have to be so sure, if you haven't got anything already, you shouldn't have to try to do it. In California has one of these, in Belgium has one of these, in northern Italy has one of these. So there's other places where you've been able to do this. Then it really surprises me that a representative from the Labour Party comes up and says that this is so impossible that a person can just forget it. That's how I experience this page comment from the Workers' Party. Remember, this has a group committee gone in too. First it was the Progress Party, the Workers' Party and the SV, and then the government party hung on. What can be done to ensure that one does not go into the same traps that the representative Brørby clearly has experience in, is possibly to set down a wide selection, such as environmental movement has asked for, not just interministerial, but a selection that goes through this really, where environmental movement, building layers and all those who might be interested in entering and looking at a differentiated pricing are included. It is one of the things that I think the council must assess and give feedback when he returns to Stortinget in connection with the revision. I mean that this is one of the things that he has to answer, and I expect him to do that. But one must not act as the representative of Brörby, judging one thing north and down because others have not done so before. It's going to be completely wrong. Here you have to try to create a system that becomes fair, that can reduce people's power dependency and people's power calculation. It should also be of interest to the representative of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1735	Only to avoid misunderstandings: What the Storting requested is an assessment of a so-called two-price system for electricity, a differentiated electricity charge, to be submitted to the Stortinget in the revised national budget. I'm not going to take any initiative to put down a separate sample for this. Time doesn't go to it at all. So the Storting has to decide. What is in the vote is that this should be presented in the revised national budget. The work to be done is already subject to very tight schedules, and it does not allow other forms of work to be carried out in and between departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1740	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 8 [[Fotation, see page 2095]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1756	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who subscribe to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1765	Document No 8:34 concerns a proposal for a government loan or guarantee scheme for those who have difficulty paying exceptionally high electricity costs. Furthermore, it is proposed to increase the rates of light and heat in the housing stock in order to increase their compliance with real costs and to assess changes or exemptions from NVE’s invoicing regulations. There is a broad consensus to help households that have serious problems paying the electricity bill. On behalf of the Government Parties and the majority of the Committee, I will refer you to the consideration of theint. S. No 126 and the debate in Stortinget on 20 February this year, in which the proposal to increase housing aid for 1st semester from 700 kroner to 2500 kroner was unanimously endorsed, and that the Ministry of Social Affairs sends a circular to its social offices calling for flexibility in the practice of social welfare legislation, given that this is a temporary difficult situation many have encountered due to exceptionally high electricity prices this winter. You should therefore understand, so that people don't have to sell the car or anything. because of costs arising from a temporary situation. These decisions take account of the considerations behind points 1 and 2 of the proposal. With regard to point 3 of the proposal, I would like to refer to the comments of the Minister of Social Affairs in a letter to the Committee dated 6 February 2003. Reference is made to the fact that the Minister of Oil and Energy has taken an initiative towards the energy companies in order to offer their electricity customers a reasonable breakdown of the electricity bill and flexible solutions before the customer gets into trouble. Furthermore, the Minister of Oil and Energy has announced that he will review the regulations, so that no power companies will have the opportunity to pre-invoicing with their household customers. He further indicates that the NVE has a review of the regulations on billing in cooperation with the industry. In the case of monthly billing, according to the Minister of Oil and Energy, the NVE has granted a derogation so that power-purchase companies can offer household customers with an annual consumption of more than 8000 kWh invoicing after-sales based on the stipulated consumption between the readings. This derogation applies to the billing of consumption up to and including May 2003, in other words, until the current exceptional situation on the electricity market is over in the context of the snow smelting in the mountains. I want to pay tribute to the Government and the NVE for having been out quickly and granting a derogation, so that the households with the highest consumption, and therefore the highest bills, can get their bills broken down into monthly bills. With this in mind, I would recommend that the Committee attach Document No. 8:34 Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1786	When the Workers' Party promoted this proposal before Christmas, it was because we realized that more people would have problems paying the electricity bill this winter, and we – I had unfortunately – got it right. Proposals Nos. 1 and 2 in our Document No. We are not repeating 8 proposals now, because we have in the meantime, as the rapporteur in particular stated, dealt with several issues in the Municipal Committee on aid for the electricity bill to which the Stortinget has joined. The Workers' Party has had an impact there, for example: to help those who are struggling most with the electricity billing increase the grant to the housing stock by NOK 2500 to cover electricity costs. In addition, the income staggered to receive housing aid is raised by NOK 30000 in relation to the income limit for 2002. This means that far more people will be entitled to housing support. This is far more than what the Government originally proposed. In addition, there is also room for practice at social offices, which do not impose as stringent demands as has been made up to now in relation to assets, the use of children’s savings, etc., before helping to deal with temporary payment problems as a result of an increase in electricity prices. In addition, it has fortunately been implemented that the Government will give an overall assessment of the economic situation of municipalities in the revised national budget in spring as a result of an expected increase in social assistance expenditure. So the proposal that concerns the possibility of monthly payment. We want to be on a permanent basis. When we do that, it's because we see that it can be one of several ways to remedy a difficult situation. I would therefore like to address the proposal that we are dealing with SV on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1797	Sylvia Brustad has taken up the suggestion she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2095]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1815	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1824	This winter has given increased focus to power saving and alternative energy sources. Of course, a cause of this has been the power prices, which we have experienced as extremely high during the winter. It's obvious that people are now busy thinking about the energy side, and that's what we think is positive. And while we're now dependent on getting new power into the system, we have to start using the electricity we're already using, in a slightly smarter way. It is gratifying that the Government will have a majority of the main principles of the aid scheme described in St.prp. No 42. It will give a handshake to those who want to invest in technology that will help us to use electricity more efficiently, while at the same time increasing investment in such technology in the long term will also make us less dependent on electricity for heating. There is a broad majority on the Stortinget who now share in giving this handshake. However, based on an unexpected large applicant mass, the majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment wants to go a step further than that of the proposal and says that applicants by 15 March will receive support according to the criteria established. The minority wishes to extend this period. However, it is my – and I think the majority of the committee – view that the system has now been known for so long that the need for further extension of the deadline would be unnecessary. Applications accepted will mean that the applicant will receive an aid commitment of 20 pst. of the investment, limited up to NOK 5000. The assumption is that after they have received an undertaking to grant aid, they must actually make the investments within four months. That such a scheme would come, has been known for a while. Enova has received more than 20,000 — I think almost 25 000 — applications per year. today to receive such grants. The financing of this plan in excess of 50 million. kr proposed in the proposal, the Government shall return to the revised budget. A majority of the Committee considers that the system should be a one-off event in the first instance. I see that there are good reasons why we should be able to make the system more permanent, as a minority in the committee wants, but among other things. in order not to create artificially high demand for heat pumps, pellet stoves and power management systems, it will be necessary to provide this support as a one-off phenomenon in the first place. It is the consumer who should benefit from such a support scheme, not initially those who sell the technology. It is also important to look at the impact of the scheme on consumers and whether it is sufficiently targeted. In addition, we have to clarify Enova's role in the middle of this, and it is in my opinion wrong to extract some tasks from Enova's portfolio and technology that preferred without looking at the whole picture in their work. The goal of Enova is to create 10 TWh new renewable energy in the market by 2010. In addition to this aid scheme, 20 million will be granted. kr to a wide information campaign to help people reduce their electricity bills. This campaign is already underway, and we've seen that people actually save electricity through the winter. It is very important in relation to the low level of filling in the warehouse, which the NVE characterises as worrying, and which we have discussed in the Stortinget today in a different context. Let me conclude by saying that it is a major challenge for Norway in the future to make us less dependent on hydropower. This will be part of and steer away from the great fluctuations in the current price that we have experienced in winter due to an extremely dry year. There's several ways to do this. We can either build ourselves one-sided out of this dependency, or we can start using the electricity more efficiently. In the Christian People's Party, we believe that we must bet on both. The aid scheme adopted today will help us to use electricity more rationally, and in the long term it will be able to reduce our dependence on hydropower.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1847	Improvements have been made through the handling of this matter by the committee. That is good, and we support the recommendation that more people should be included in the scheme, with the deadline for application on 15 March. We also want this to be a permanent arrangement, but we must come back to that in connection with the budget for next year. But it's a pretty big problem with this case, and there we stand alone. It is the charge on HFC gases that the majority in Stortinget applied, among others. heat pumps before Christmas, which will of course lead to more expensive heat pumps now. Depending on what heat pump we're talking about, how much, etc., we can talk about thousands of dollars. That means one gives with one hand and one takes with the other. That, I think, is basically a very bad policy. I would therefore like to address our proposal, No. 1, where we suggest, now, as we did before Christmas, to remove the fee on HFC gases.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1854	Sylvia Brustad has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1857	The winter’s power crisis with an explosive trend in power prices and risk of disconnection and rationalisation has shown to the full that the energy policy pursued by the majority in this room is totally flawed. Despite countless warnings from the Progress Party over many years, the majority have turned the deaf ear and stopped all the expansion of power generation. Over the last ten years, we have had a consumption increase of 18-19 TWh, while the increase in production has been only one-sixth of this. It goes without saying that with such a great distance between supply and demand, it has to go wrong, and so has it. Unfortunately, neither the Government nor the majority in this house still seem to have understood the seriousness of the situation and will expand the production of electricity – despite the price increases, which make more and more of the country's inhabitants social welfare recipients. The first measure of the government was to use 20 million. kr on an information campaign, an information campaign that would teach the Norwegian people to turn off the power. One might ask if such a measure would be necessary with winter electricity prices. Most people, like me, have got a power bill that makes you think about both once and twice before a turn on the heat. But the money for this unnecessary information campaign, in my opinion, has already been used, so there is little that can be done with it now. Another measure proposed by the Government is grants for electricity saving in private households. Here we have proposed to allocate 50 million. kr to, for example, heat pumps, pellet stoves or control systems that help to limit the use of electricity. It is Enova that is responsible for the use and allocation of these funds. During the committee hearing, it emerged from Enova that one should allocate funds to those who have the most cost-effective solutions. At the same time, we are told that pellets should be given priority in the allocation of funds, despite the fact that, for example: clean kilns are at least as efficient and environmentally friendly. These are also much cheaper, and it's been said that you can get three times as many kilowatts out of these for the same money. In view of this, the Progress Party proposes to use cost-effective and technology-neutral criteria for the allocation of funds, in order to achieve the highest possible kilowatts for each krona. In this very special situation we have had this winter, the Progress Party will support the Government's proposals for funding. With this, I would like to address the proposal of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1870	Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1873	I must first of all be allowed to say that I find it somewhat ironic that the representative of the Progress Party is now sugaring over the consequences of the free market in electricity, a free market that the Progress Party has been at the forefront in order to ensure that it operates. But it is clear that it is nice that you have now perhaps seen that this was not so tricked anyway. SV has often proposed the introduction of a support scheme for energy conversion in households, but it was only in the context of the winter power crisis that this old SV proposal was heard by the political majority, which is, of course, very enjoyable. For us, the presentation of St.prp. No 42 a victory in itself, despite the fact that we thought the government was laying on the table, was rather puzzled. The response has been quantifiable, and the applications quickly exceeded the approximately 10,000 that would be supported by the initial amount. Today, Enova has received 25 000 applications, which also means that we have passed 125 million. kr. SV does not exclude that we can finally end up with an amount that is closer to SV's proposal of 300 million. kr than the Government’s 50 million proposals. kr. However, the government parties in Stortinget must have responded to the criticism that an amount limit of 50 million has been set. kr would lead to many rejections. So here we have a case in point that they can listen to reason when they just think about it a little bit. SV therefore agrees with the rest of the Committee on the implementation of this aid scheme that the amount should not be limited to the 50 million. kr as originally proposed by the Government and that the Government should return to the Storting once the final financing needs have been resolved. But what we do not support the majority is that such a short deadline should be set for the submission of applications. It's only a little over two weeks until March 15th, and too many people will be too short to take a necessary assessment of the ability to put on the table the propensity to implement such an energy conversion measure. It's not like the majority seems to think that all the 500,000 households trapped in the power traps have money on their books or payrolls so high that an investment of $15,000 is something to be fired. That's exactly why we need a long-term scheme, so it'll be possible to spend some money to implement energy saving measures. It is on the background that I will now be able to record SV's suggestions in the setting. Another element that concerns us a little bit is that it's bursting with applications that are now coming, and which are likely to come, will help the market for the sale of both heat pumps and pellet stoves, not to mention the installation capacity, can get a little strenuous. In this way, it is important for us that the majority can state that any delay in the delivery and installation of the equipment should not lead to the loss of the grant provided by the scheme by households. My question to the Council of State is then whether it can provide a guarantee that households will not be unduly affected by any changes in the supply and assembly market. The signal this setting gives to households is: ‘Run and search!’ Now that’s the point. The application has to be submitted by 15 March to join the scheme, but then, happily enough, there is guaranteed support, as long as the criteria are met. St. pp. No 42 is clearly inspired by SV's proposal in Document No. 8:32, which of course is joyous. In this respect, I have a question for the Council of State: When will the Council of State be inspired by the SV's other proposals in Document No. 8:32, to extend the support schemes of the House Bank for the installation of water and airborne heat, so that at least as many house-bank-funded houses are built with flexible heating as elsewhere in the housing market? When will the Council of State take such an initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1890	Ingvild Vaggen Malvik has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1893	Yes, now the Vaggen Malvik says here that she recognizes one proposal after another, and feels that one has thought of SV when one has made this proposition. I then feel tempted to take some history from before Christmas. For when the Ministry of Oil and Energy budget was discussed on 12 December, I submitted a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre to seek a subsidy scheme for support for the installation of water and airborne heating in dwellings and public buildings. The proposal was justified by the fact that such a subsidy scheme would make an important contribution to stimulating the use of new sources of heating and to reducing the use of expensive electricity and polluting oil. Steensnæs felt that the intention of the proposal was positive. However, what could be profitable without State aid had to be assessed. He also mentioned that it was important not to inflate a market, so that unprofessional actors came in. Of course, he was right about that. He wanted to build a quality market, where serious actors were to be invited in. He said he was willing to look at the proposal that had been submitted, and recommended that it be sent to the Government. And that's how it went. So I feel in many ways that it is the government's processing of the opposition's proposed grant scheme that is being treated in St.prp. No 42 today. In fact, the proposal is very hard-wearing. We would have liked the grant scheme to be extended, that it had been set up to provide grants for several types of alternative heating, and that the amount of the grant per. household had grown higher. I am so sorry that Enova did not receive any more money in budgetary terms. It is positive that they have received money now, but nevertheless, it is a great fail to empty in here. It is well and good that there are subsidies for heat pumps, pellet stoves and control systems. But the waterborne heat, for example, is not mentioned in this proposition. A water-based heating system is flexible and provides the basis for the use of many different energy carriers. Nor do I believe that the use of bioenergy has been given the place it deserves. We have a lot of woodland that today is not profitable to get out of the woods, and that could have played a much more important role in heating than it does. Earlier today it was also mentioned that forest was inland oil. It might be worth noting. Bioenergy can be used for waterborne heating. But it can also be used more directly in wood stoves. We must not forget that refurbishment is a very common way of heating the house in this country. The centre party has therefore requested that clean, environmentally friendly wood stoves be included in the subsidy scheme. It's much cheaper – and we also have to remember that pellet stoves actually need power to be in operation. If the grant scheme is to be further extended, even more money is needed. We have chosen not to propose this now, but we will come back and evaluate increased appropriations in the revised budget. The extension of the subsidy scheme to households needs to consider whether heavier investments, such as waterborne heat and geothermal, should also be included. It must be an important objective to achieve more flexible energy use. In addition to a grant scheme, it is also important to put in place other measures to improve the energy situation and increase the use of renewable energy, such as: requirements for water or airborne heating in new houses over 1000 m2 that allow municipalities to place energy requirements in floor coverings emphasis on upgrading existing power plants and the construction of mini-power plants, etc. Finally, Minister of Oil and Energy Steensnæs has emphasised that the commitment to renewable energy and the development of gas power plants with CO2 treatment are the flagships of the Government. Unfortunately, the government chose to cut the appropriations for energy research heavily during the budget conciliation before Christmas. This is one of the things that should be corrected as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1924	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is immediately at hand. The President has only Einar Steensnæs left on the list of speakers in this case and does not expect so many more. The President therefore proposes that we extend this morning's meeting until we have finished the recorded speakers on the list of speakers. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1932	The consequences of winter’s worrying power situation have naturally received considerable attention, and the Government has put in place and proposed immediate measures to the Stortinget, which we have seen as necessary. Now it turns out that there are a lot of people here in the hall who sign up for recognition of the fathership, or I would say the fun, if it's a concept, of the different suggestions. When it creates enthusiasm in the hall, I have nothing against the fact that there are more contributors to what is now adopted by the Stortinget. However, I would like to take this opportunity to recall that there is a distinction between the short-term measures proposed to remedy the current power situation and the longer-term policy aimed at improving security of supply, including an environmentally friendly energy conversion. Hydropower has a dominant role in the Norwegian energy supply. It has been difficult for alternative solutions to get a foothold on the market, which in turn has led to a lack of expertise, actors and technology for such solutions. To meet future demands for more flexible energy supply, we therefore depend on the development of skills and markets for alternative energy solutions and energy saving. Through the creation of the Energy Fund and Enova, the size has supported the objectives and the strategy for the conversion. The targeted and efficient use of grant funds shall build a viable market for new energy solutions and services, based on new renewable energy sources and lower consumption. This is a strategy that the Government believes in and will hold on to. In this proposition, the Government announces that an information campaign will be launched by Norway's Watercourse and Energy Directorate to inform the public about the worrying power situation and encourage power saving. One so that households were quick to reduce their consumption earlier this winter. The campaign under the direction of NVE has therefore been targeted at business and public activities, where the potential is high. During the campaign, 20,000 private and public enterprises have received letters containing information and tips on power saving. I am pleased that the committee ends up on this campaign. With regard to the proposal for a temporary aid scheme for alternative heating solutions, this has been received very positively by people. I refer to the figures referred by the representatives here today. I would like to stress that this scheme is intended to be an immediate measure based on the particular situation we are now in. There are very many consumers who have shown interest in alternative heating modes in winter. We want to draw that attention by making such investments easier. The purpose of this scheme is to enable an investment for individuals seeking an alternative heating system and to increase the uptake of new energy-efficient technologies. It is households that use electrical energy for main heating in their housing, which is the target population. I am very concerned that the system should require quality both in terms of the products themselves and the installation itself. The market for heat pumps, pellet stoves and control systems is vulnerable and depends on customer satisfaction and the functioning of the service apparatus around them. We must therefore avoid overstimulating the market and create an opportunity for short-term profit hunters. Furthermore, it is important that those applying for aid receive good information about the products they want to buy, as well as suggestions for other ways to save electricity. The size proposed a deadline of 15 March to apply for aid under this scheme. I think that is a reasonable deadline. The system is already well known through the media today and will be further made well known through the daily press. Applications after the deadline will not be considered. I want Enova to deal effectively with the applications so that it can send out letters of undertaking quickly. Enova will then be given an overview of how much of the application amount actually qualifies for grants and how many of the applicants actually carry out the investment. This will provide us with the basis for assessing the final financial framework. In the light of the experience gained with the scheme, Enova will evaluate the results, the impact of the market and whether such a scheme should be part of Enova’s long-term work on an environmentally friendly energy conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1955	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1958	In the proposition, the government writes the following: ‘Households could be supported, for example, heat pumps, pellet stoves [...] or management systems that contribute to limiting the use of electricity.’ Even though you write that these are examples, obviously you'll now follow these slavish examples and not use the money where they throw the most of them. Will the Council of State give me an explanation as to why cost-effective and technology-neutral criteria will not be used when allocating these funds? I thought the whole purpose of this measure was to dampen the pressure on the demand for electricity. Then you have to be able to spend the money where they work best, regardless of technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1968	Initially, I agree with the principle of what the representative, Mr. Vaksdal, has now said about cost-effective solutions. It is then that the department wants to deal with Enova as the professional body that can assess this. It's very good to make creative recordings, both from the Storting and others, for how it can happen, and I know that the so-called clean wood stoves are being evaluated by Enova. However, there are a couple of things that I have been made aware of, and that makes you know if it is appropriate. First of all, that's the price. The price of such stoves is significantly lower than the price of pellet stoves, for example, and government grants are not necessarily necessary to make such an investment. Secondly, pellet scaffolds give the ability to control the heat similar to what we have on other types of heat sources that can be thermostatically controlled or controlled. It doesn't know a stove, at least not the same way. That is why the Ministry is dealing with Enova’s proposal on how to design this legislation. There is already a proposal for that legislation on Enova’s websites, and it is true that these wood stoves are not included. However, as I said, the cost-effective, best and most appropriate solutions will be at the bottom of the assessment of the devices and installations that could benefit from the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1975	I can admit the Council of State's fathership to the proposal, as I know so well how it has happened, and that I know where the fun is. I did not realize that the Council of State in its statement gave some answers to the questions I asked him in my post, and I would like him to elaborate a little more on what I took up in relation to the market, which might be strenuous if you get such a short deadline for the applications as March 15. It is important for us to be able to establish from this platform that any delays in the delivery and installation of the equipment should not lead to the loss of the grant provided by the scheme by households. I hope that the Council of State can give such a guarantee from this pulpit. In addition, I hope that the Council of State will be able to comment on whether he has now been sufficiently inspired by SV, so that he will gradually come back with a proposal to look at the support schemes of the House Bank – which is the second proposal in Document No. 8:32, and which he has not yet signaled any desire to take on the fatherhood to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1984	The nice thing about proposals in the Storting is that they're relatively gender neutral, so whether it's fatherhood or fun, doesn't really matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1987	There have been many freers – to keep me in the picture – to several of these proposals. But since my party is not a member of loose and unknown connections, I immediately give SV to the extent that they have made a proposal that has formed the basis for what the Government has come with. I have no problem giving recognition for that. So it's signed out. With regard to the deadline of 15 March, I sincerely believe that hardly any action – I will claim no other action – that has been promoted in the wake of the strained power situation, has become better known to people, both through editorial articles in the leadership position and through newspaper posts, than precisely this mechanism. Anyone who could reasonably expect to be interested has been aware that this is coming. When we saw in addition, after the Storting has adopted this, we advertise through Enova for the scheme, we believe that we have given all those who at all have intentions to exploit this scheme, every time and every reason to apply. When it comes to getting inspired by SV, we should not exclude that it can happen again. But in this case I would like to point out that it is the municipal minister who administers the scheme under the Husbank, and the Stortinget has been made aware by letter from her of the loan arrangements that exist for that type of energy conversion, although the grant scheme itself has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25.ana.ud253e1996	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox The President will now cancel the meeting. [[Fotation, see page 2095]] New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 18 and we start with the treatment of case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
