ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e63	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Harald Espelund For Uppland County: Reidun Gravedahl For the Rogaland County: Inger Lise Aarrestad For South-Trundellag County: Jørund Leknes For Vestfold County: Inger Møll and Vidar Andersen
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e91	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e96	I'd like to suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e101	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. Other proposals are not available, and thus the Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected as president of the current week's meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e111	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e136	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party and Right 15 minutes, Advance Party, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that an exception be made to the first paragraph of Section 37 of the Rules of Procedure by giving rise to a series of lines, but so that the lines and answers are limited to one minute each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a sequence change of up to three one-minute sequences with replies after contributions from the main speakers of each group and five one-minute sequences after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e149	Now we're going to deal with Innst. S. No 111 and Innst. S. No 110. St.meld. No 10 for 2002-2003 deals with the Annual Report of the Sameting for 2001. The majority is shown in Input. S. No 111 to the Inn. S. No 110 from the Municipal Committee on Common Policy, which is based on two programming messages, St.meld. No 55 for 2000-2001 by the Government of Stoltenberg and St.meld. No 33 for 2001-2002 by the Bondevik II Government. There are principle messages both – the first principle message and then Bondevik's additional message. With regard to the annual report from Sametinget, the Committee notes that the Government is working on several of the issues on which the focus was placed here and the Committee goes on to refer to the consideration of the principle messages. I will therefore stay first and foremost at Innst. S. No 110. As the rapporteur for these two cases, and especially the case no. 1, on St.meld. No 55 and St.meld. No 33, it has been imperative for me to try to bring together the widest possible majority. Essentially, it has been possible, and it has been successful, except that the Progress Party has expressed its principal views and does not participate in the broad majority of those positions. Int. S. No 110 are addressed both messages, which will then form the basis for the Government's further policy. In St.meld. No 33 The judgments of the Supreme Court of the ‘Selbusaken’ and the ‘Black Forest’ cases are also dealt with in detail. The broad majority, all without the Progress Party, points to the position of principle of common policy. Firstly, Norway is established in the territory of two peoples, Samer and Nordmann. Samemen is a well-known indigenous people. It is based on human equivalency, and the Norwegian authorities have obligations under national law and international law, an obligation to ensure a common right to develop their language, culture and social life. This is the central foundation of the fundamental basis of our common policies. The Cooperation Government has also underlined its common policy platform, and for the Christian People's Party it is important to point out that Norway has specific obligations under Article 27 of the 1966 United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights and ILO Convention No. 169, about indigenous peoples and tribal peoples in independent states. The rights of the Sami peoples group are also enshrined in the Constitution § 110a. St.meld. No 55 draws up short historical trajectories from the 800s up to the present day. The entire committee notes that there has been a varied and varied view of the Sami population. Prior to 1814, the interests of the community were widely accepted, and these were stressed in the borderline between Sweden and Norway in 1751. In the 1800s, we had a negative attitude change, and in the 1860s, we started a strong research policy. At the end of the 1930s we had a positive change again, and 1951 can be marked with Margrethe Wiigs ABC in Sami. The real breakthrough for a new position came with the Joint Committee's suspension in 1959, which marked a decisive breach of the research and assimilation policy. As far as the legal basis is concerned, we do not have a general international definition of ‘ur people’, but the majority points to Article 1(b) of the ILO Convention, which has a definition based on governments, both the Stoltenberg Government and the Bondevik II. The majority also uses this one. For the ratification of ILO Convention No. The government said that there was nothing to prevent this. The Municipal Committee had no comments, and in Stortinget it was unanimously adopted. The notifications discuss the concept of self-determination and the majority of the Sameting stated that ‘it is common to decide, not the State, which areas of society the Sami people should have control, control and administration over’. It can therefore be interpreted as meaning that there should be no restriction on the right to self-determination. The majority of the Committee has stated that they cannot endorse such an interpretation of the right of self-determination. Self-determination must take place within the framework of an existing, independent and democratic country and within the existing geographical boundaries of Norway. The majority agree that there must be a dialogue between the Sameting and the Government and want to increase decision-making powers in matters of special interest to the Sami population of the Sameting. The majority have also discussed the electoral system. This has also been done in previous messages. A majority consisting of Right, SV, Christian People's Party and the Center Party believe that the Storting must be responsible for general principles in different electoral arrangements. As far as Sami diversity is concerned, both the northern Sami, the southern Sami, the scholastic, the lulesamic and the pitesamic are described in the two main messages. It is in this area that we have disagreement in the committee. The vast majority say that it is known that the Government has started work on the design of an impact assessment programme for the Tysfjord-Hellemo area, as part of the protection work in the area. In this context, the majority would like to point out that there is not necessarily a contradiction between nature protection and natural management. The majority believe that it should be an objective to combine these interests in the area. So this applies to the broad majority. The representatives of the Right Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party express the importance of taking into account the lulesamic interests of the area in the protection plan, and that any safeguard decision must be based on ensuring the livelihood of the Lulesa people. The representatives of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Advance Party promoted a proposal to withdraw this area on issue. I am promoting today a proposal based on the views of the Right, Socialist Left and Christian People's Party, which has been distributed and numbered as proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox International cooperation is important. I would like to stress that the permanent forum for indigenous peoples established must also be given their secretariat, which must be financed from the regular budgets of the United Nations. The UN negotiations in Geneva on a declaration of indigenous peoples must help Norway. We also have great expectations of working with the Nordic Convention and the work in progress in the Barents region. Finally, in the case of the Supreme Court rulings, the Christian People's Party has not decided on the possible consequences, but will point to the central source of justice these judgments will be. I am addressing the proposal I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e198	The representative of Østberg has addressed the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e203	The government and government party stress that it is important to ensure Sami culture, construction and business, especially directed towards the core area of Sami settlement, i.e. Inner Finnmark, in order to strengthen the living conditions of the Sami population. The Government Party and the Advance Party have, through the State budget, severely weakened the general district policy instruments. It will also happen to the Sámi kernels. My question to the representative of Østberg will then be: will it not only be empty words and a logical flaw when one says that one will strengthen Sami industry in nuclear areas, when one at the same time severely weakens the general district policy instruments?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e210	No, it won't be empty words. Firstly, the Sametinge has a separate fund in respect of industrial development. It is important that this is used, and it could contribute to the development of the business life of Inner Finnmark. In addition, the Government has said that in the Nord-Troms and Finnmark Action Zone, the measures in place should be evaluated with a view to improving and strengthening these measures. This will also benefit Inner Finnmark. There are no empty words for this Government!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e217	The fact that the Progress Party strongly disagrees with the current common policy is well-known. The majority will increase the cohesive power of decision in matters of particular interest to the Sami population. The majority believe that tasks relating to both the Sami and the rest of the population should, as a general rule, be performed by the ordinary administrative bodies, i.e. not the Sameting. And then you can ask: what does the representative of Østberg really put in increased Sami right of self-determination? And where would the representative of Østberg say that the limits of the Sámi right of self-determination should be drawn?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e227	The representative of Østberg and the Christian People's Party, as part of the broad majority, agrees with the governments who have made these big messages, that there must be a dialogue with the Sameeting about the understanding of the concept of self-determination. It is this dialogue that has to decide where to draw the limits. But I would like to point out that one area that is absolutely essential will be language and language development, data collection and taking care of the language in special Sami industries. In the cultural field, there will also be important areas in which the Sameting should have decisive competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e234	Østberg said it was important to evaluate what a do, to figure out how it works, and that's what SV agrees with. It is then time to challenge the Government, especially when it comes to coastal fishing, which is also an important Sami industry. There, the Government has now presented proposals on the coastal fishing fleet. They have previously had operational and incentive arrangements for the fleet that are not consistent. In other words, there is no knowledge of the impact on the Sami industries and the basis for the Sami culture of the changes being made to sectoral policy, for example. in the fisheries sector. In addition to this, the SV and the Central Party have made proposals asking the Government to assess the need for national policy guidelines for Sami issues for the planning work in municipalities and county municipalities. This means that all levels of administration must take this into account in making changes to the physical basis of Sami culture and industry. I could imagine getting a reason from Østberg for why the Christian People's Party and the Government do not agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e245	It is true that a message has now been submitted that is based on the structure of the fishing fleet. I would like to stress that the basic principle of the proposals that are being promoted there is voluntary. The aim of this is to adapt fleet capacity to the available fish resource in order to create greater profitability for those who live by fishing. In connection with this presentation, claims have been made that the smallest coastal fleet should now be destroyed. That's not right. Therefore, what is now being presented will not be detrimental to the part of the Sami population engaged in fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e252	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e256	In the last 14 years, there has been a radical change and a fundamental uplift in Norwegian common policies. A constitutional provision has been adopted which states that it is up to the Norwegian authorities to facilitate the preservation and development of their language, culture and social life by the Sami peoples. A separate law of union has been adopted on the same basis. A representative body of the Sami population has been established, directly chosen by the group itself. It has adopted its own language law. Sami has become official language in line with the Norwegian in the Sámi core region. A separate Sámi curriculum has been established and applied to the core area. The cultural expressions are given room for development. A separate Sami theatre has been created. Radio and TV coverage are substantially expanded. Sami business interests have been strengthened by the Law on Reindeer Management and the Special Arrangement for Small Boats Fishing in the northernmost region. Against such a background, it appears to be alarming that, without presenting the case to the Sameting Council, the UN reports on the negative treatment of Sami issues by the authorities. Such an instrument should normally be reserved for matters and conflicts of a significant dimension. I therefore understand that there have also been strong reactions in the Sameting both to the procedure and to the content of the report sent to the UN. The Labour Party has been a driving force for most – not all – of the major changes that have occurred in the last 15 years. Most of them have been adopted by a broad majority in the Grand Duchy, with the support of all parties except the Advance Party. The principle of common policies must be that the state of Norway is originally established in the territory of two peoples, Samer and Nordmen, and that both peoples have the same right and the same right to develop their culture and language. Most of them live in Norway. Norway therefore has a specific responsibility to care for Sami culture. Same men are recognized as natives. It does not depend on whether the inhabited areas first, as some seem to believe is the criterion of being indigenous, but on the fact that they inhabited the country when the current state borders were established, in the same way as other northerners did before the state borders in the north were established. ILO Convention No 169 is in conjunction with the former ILO Convention No. 107 provisionally the only two international legal instruments dealing directly with the protection of indigenous peoples. In the case of Norway, it must be borne in mind that legislation generally complies with the principles of the Convention. For the ratification of ILO Convention No. In 169, the government of Syse stated that there were no obstacles to the Norwegian ratification of the Convention. The Municipal Committee of the Storting had no comments on the matter, which was unanimously adopted in Stortinget. From this point of view, it must be possible for the Grand Duchy to assume that ratification did not in itself entail any change in Norwegian legislation. The major messages underlying today’s suspension and the fundamental debates of the last few years on Sami issues require important border crossings in relation to the debate on Sami self-determination. The concept of self-determination is an unexplained concept of international law. The majority of the coalition has stated that ‘it is common to decide, not the state, which areas of society the Sami people should have control, control and administration over’. The merger decision may be interpreted as if there is no restriction on such self-determination. It is clear from the setting that there are no parties in the Storting that agree with the view that the majority of Sameting has of Sami self-determination. To the extent that self-determination can be used, the content of the term must be defined within the framework of our existing independent and democratic state and within the existing geographical boundaries of Norway. It's totally out of the question with some kind of territorial autonomy. The concept of self-determination must therefore be understood in relation to the principle of the right of indigenous peoples to preserve and develop their culture. This is set out in Section 110a of the Basic Law for the Norwegian Associations, which obliges Norwegian authorities to facilitate the preservation and development of their language, culture and social life by the Sami People's Group. It is together itself, through its elected body, that must clarify the content and the desired development of the separate language, culture and social life of the community. No one other than the group can define what is samish. At the same time, of course, there are many issues that not only relate to the particular language, culture and social life of the group, which have a bearing on the development of the Sami communities. The question of the right of association to self-determination must therefore be based on a right of influence in all areas relating to group groups. This will be largely linked to the authority and influence to be conferred on the nationally elected body, the Sameting. In the last few years, they have had a more real influence on their social relationships. The merger has been given decision-making authority in an increasing number of areas for tasks which are solely or essentially directed at the Sami population. At the same time, the Sameting has given influence, through the possibility to influence decisions, in all matters which, in the opinion of the Sami People's Party, affect economically, culturally, legally and socially. For example, even through its elected body, with the help of government funds, will be able to direct the development of Sami languages. It also lays down, within the scope and resources of the Ministry, rules on the symbiological symbiological symbiological symbiology in primary and secondary education and on symbiological symbiology in specific Sami subjects in secondary school. On the other hand, the Sameting appoints representatives from various public investigative committees and gives hearing opinions on matters for consideration. The Workers' Party will give the Sameting greater power of decision in matters of particular interest to the Sami population. In our view, the general rule must be to integrate the Sámi interests into the ordinary administration rather than to build up their own Sámi arrangements. However, schemes that are directed exclusively or substantially at the Sami population would be more natural for the Sameting to be responsible. At the same time, it is important that responsibilities transferred to the Sameting are clearly defined and, in practice, uncomplicated in differentiating from those of other administrative bodies. It also follows that, as a general rule, tasks relating to both the Sami and the rest of the population should be performed by the ordinary administrative bodies. Consideration of specific Sami needs and interests, including: the use of Sami languages should then be ensured in the administration. It is important that the Sametinge has the greatest legitimacy possible. Therefore, it is also a high priority to increase the turnout of the selectivity option. The State authorities and the Conseil must together strengthen the information on the number of co-workers and the merger choice. An increasingly positive attitude towards the Sami side of the Norwegian big society could in itself contribute to the participation of more people in the population. The merger was created by Stortinget. However, in the view of the Labour Party, it is in principle right for the Sami population itself to decide, through its elected body, on questions of the electoral rules for the Unification, including questions of the delimitation of voting rights, the division of electoral circles, the distribution of mandates, etc.. In the view of the Workers' Party, the objective of bringing together through the Sameting itself to decide on matters relating in particular to the Sami population will be best achieved by allowing the Sameeting itself to have authority over these issues. However, although the main responsibility of the State for facilitating the security and development of their language, culture and social life lies with them, the practical tasks arising from this responsibility must also be carried out to a large extent at lower levels of administration. Municipalities and county councils have the same obligations as the state to fulfil our national and international obligations in relation to the Sami population. The importance of Sami language and culture must therefore be given to policy priorities at municipal and county level. It is positive that the contact between the municipal sector and the Sameting system now appears to be under development. The Workers' Party is committed to preserving and continuing the Sami diversity. It also requires active policies in relation to the smaller Sami ethnic groups that have their own identity, their own cultural expressions and/or languages/main dialects. This diversity also involves diversity in housing and food adaptation. This suggests, among other things: willingness to ensure the economic base of the maritime Sami culture. Linguistic and cultural diversity is linked to biodiversity. The unwise management of reindeer pastures is a threat to the reindeer industry and to the reindeer-sam culture. Similarly, ecological imbalances in the sea are a threat to maritime culture. Sustainable environmental and resource policies are therefore also important in order to preserve Sami language and culture. Sami settlement and Sami culture are closely linked to areas considered as districts or outskirts in a national perspective. A successful rural policy in Sami settlement areas is therefore a prerequisite for the maintenance and continuation of Sami language and culture. The regional policy challenges of high unemployment in the Sámi core regions and high depopulation in the Sámi areas are worrying and require a targeted rural policy towards these areas in general. It is not possible to ensure a positive development of the Sami in these regions without adding to a positive development for the region as a whole. It is therefore unfortunate and contrary to the objectives of the development of Sami culture and society that government parties and the Progress Party have committed to weakening regional policy instruments, inter alia. in areas in which the Sámi core regions are located. Inner Finnmark is the core area of Sami settlement. The development of this area is therefore essential for the way in which the Sami population lives and for the ability to secure and further develop Sami culture. Indre Finnmark is the worst case in most living conditions indicators, for example: as regards unemployment, level of education, level of income and wealth and the need for social assistance. There is reason to stress the regional policy challenges that are in relation to Finnmark, both the coast and Inner Finnmark. In this context, it is also important to highlight the co-political challenge posed by the living conditions situation in Inner Finland. The challenges of the Year of Life in this area therefore have a common policy, a district policy and a general welfare policy perspective. It calls for a combination of targeted welfare policy and enterprise policy measures. I've explained in the past that together must be given the opportunity to develop Sami culture on their own premises. This also implies responsibility for making difficult choices of importance for cultural development. With the role of reindeer management as a central cultural carrier, the development of the industry will also be of great importance for the development of Sami culture. Sames themselves, through the Sameting, must therefore be responsible for clarifying the policy framework conditions for setting up reindeer management policies, including: whether a reduction in the clean figure is to be made by a reduction in the number of holdings or in the clean figure per. holding. The industry has pointed out that the amount of loss of pure to predatory game is very large. Losses to such an extent may threaten the existence of the industry. The Workers' Party therefore requests that the Government provide, as soon as possible, and at the latest in the revised budget, an overall review and assessment of the reindeer game traps and make any proposals to ensure balanced management. Agriculture has been an important industry in the Sami settlement areas and thus part of the economic base of the Sami culture. Sami nutrition adaptation has traditionally been characterised by combined industries. It is therefore important that the basis for such adaptations can be maintained in these areas. The Workers' Party suggests that the Government, together with the Sameting, set up a value creation program for the Sami regions. The Programme must be based on the overall challenges and opportunities associated with agriculture, reindeer management, fishing and traditional craftsmanship based on the strong traditional integration that has existed between these industries in the Sami settlement areas. The Lulesamian culture is fragile and fragile. The settlement in Hellemofjorden is the only and last Lulesamian fjord settlement in Norway. The Lulesamian population in the area feels their activity threatened by the Tysfjord-Hellmo protection plan and has insistently requested that Hellemoforden with neighbouring land areas be finally withdrawn from the protection plan. The merger has joined the concern of the process currently under way. A majority of the municipal committee, including the Workers' Party, has therefore proposed that Hellmoforden should be withdrawn from the protection plan as a whole. However, parties representing a majority in this Chamber are against it, which is not altered by today's clarification. I have noticed that the association representative Anders Urheim, who represents the lure samples in the area, has stated: ‘The foundation of our culture and way of life is removed with a pen stroke in Oslo, and we are now to be totally satisfied that our areas in the future will appear to be valuable to everyone other than ourselves.’ From the Labour Party we believe that the most important thing now is to preserve the Lulesamian population and the Lulesamian culture by giving them faith in the future. It would make sense to withdraw this demarcated area from the protective plan. I take this up with me the proposals that the Workers' Party alone or together with others promote in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e329	The representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e334	The Workers' Party has been a driving force in the development of common policies, said Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen. What, then, is Karl Eirik Schjødt-Pedersen's comment on Janos Trosten's contribution to the Sametinget in September 2002, where he demands full Sámi self-determination, full control of land and water in Sámi areas, ownership of natural resources in sea and on land in Sámi areas, ownership of fishing and oil resources off the coast, its own Sami foreign policy and its own Sámi defence policy? These are dramatic demands. What, then, is the comment of Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen on such – to say – the broad demands of a representative from Sametinget, when Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen states that the Workers' Party has been a driving force in facilitating such a policy as is addressed through these opinions, by being in favour of common policies and being in favour of the establishment of the Sametinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e339	I have already given that clarification. I have made a clear delimitation in relation to, among other things, the term ‘self-determination’. The main starting point must be that, as far as the development of the particular Sami is concerned, the Sameting must have a strong influence, simply on the principle that it is only together that can define what is Sami and how Sami language and culture should be further developed. At the same time, in the general areas, Norway must be clearly identified as one country, and it is the Stortinget and the Government that are also the magnificence and government. However, there may sometimes be reason to remind the representative Andersen that the Progress Party has also voted in favour of Norway’s ratification of ILO Convention No. 169.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e346	I would like to thank the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen for a thorough historical review and for an otherwise very neat piece. I have one question that goes on for the future. That's the way Schjött-Pedersen was in, that having the ability to use his own language is important. This means that it is very important to make the most of it, from kindergarten and school, both elementary school and secondary school. When the local economy is scarce, it also goes beyond training in Sami. What is it that makes the Workers' Party unable to support the Centre Party and SV's proposal for a bonus scheme that covers the real costs of bilingualism?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e355	I fully agree with the representative of Meltveit Kleppa that the possibility of using his or her own language, as well as the ability to follow up the intentions of the language law, is very important. In this context, let me just add that one of the major challenges we also see here is the possibility of providing training in Sami for the adult, even older people who want to learn to read and write in Sami, but who haven't had occasion to do so. The Labour Party then assumes that there is a real opportunity to follow up the intentions of the Language Act by strengthening the grant for additional expenditure with bilingualism. We have practised this through the fact that, while the Workers' Party has been in government position and during the treatment in Stortingen, we have made significant increases in the allocation to it. Therefore, there are no significant differences of reality between the representative’s party and the Workers’ Party in the question of how to dimension these grants. There will always be a definition question of what is full coverage, but that there is a need for further strengthening, we agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e362	The difficult issue in this big message has been the protection plan for Tysfjord-Hellemobotn. Schjøtt-Pedersen was inside it in his post and referred quite correctly to the lulesamic people who feel threatened, and he used words as total salvation. What the majority have opted for in the vote is protection, but protection and use, and we say that no decision should be taken on the protection of the Tysfjord-Hellemo area without lulesamian interests being explored and safeguarded. I am a little concerned when representatives from the Workers' Party have an opinion that it is not possible to have protection and use at the same time, and that protective provisions cannot take into account interests other than those of a purely professional nature. It has actually been done many times, and I would ask the representative to explain why he does not think it is possible to attend to such interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e367	Let me first make it clear that I quoted the joint representative Urheim and his choice of words. Otherwise, I also assume that it will normally be possible to take different considerations into account in a protective planning process. It is an important fundamental principle in environmental protection. What is special in this case is that there is such a strong commitment from the vulnerable Lulesamian population to the process, and that the Sameting has also asked for the process to take place in a different way from that set up by the Government, and, thirdly, that a joint court committee has been set up to assess issues also in relation to these areas. Overall, the Labour Party believes that it would be appropriate to remove this area from the plan. It should have been a minimum in our opinion that the matter had been brought back to Stortinget. Like the proposal of, inter alia: Now formulated, it means that ultimately it is the Ministry of the Environment that takes the decision and decides whether or not lulesamic interests have actually been taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e378	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e381	In the government’s supplementary notice, the main lines of the common policy, which is based on the Basic Law § 110a, are continued, where it is stated: "It is up to the authorities of the State to bring matters to justice so that the Sami People's Group can ensure and develop its language, culture and social life." There is broad political agreement on these broad lines of common policy. Perhaps the most important part of the message is the government's co-political platform. In this context, it is stated that the basis for common policies is human rights, such as the rule of law. is included in the Basic Law § 110c. Furthermore, international conventions relevant to common policies, such as ILO Convention No, are being drawn up. 169 on indigenous peoples and the 1966 United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights, Article 27. Its name is, among other things, ‘Ethnic minorities have the right to cultivate their own culture... and to use their language’. Since I now mentioned the Basic Law § 110c, I will also repeat the Basic Law § 110a, which is: "It is up to the authorities of the State to bring matters to justice so that the Sami People's Group can ensure and develop its language, culture and social life." This is also referred to in the platform. In the platform, it is also said that the Government ‘will pursue a policy that protects the right to and increases respect for inequalities and diversity’. The Government Parties therefore consider it important to pursue a cultural and knowledge policy that makes each one secure on its own and on the cultural identity of others. Government parties also want to facilitate the conservation and further development of diversity in Sami culture. The message makes the work done to preserve the Sami language visible. As part of globalisation, there is a wide-ranging division of languages in the world. Language sharing has always occurred in world history. In any case, government parties regard the preservation and further development of Sami language as an objective in itself. In this work, it is particularly important to have a good dialogue between the Community and the government on how to deploy resources. Another theme that gives rise to a great deal of commitment to the Sameting and to the selectors of the Sameting is the question of the voting system of the Sameting. In St.meld. No 55 states that the Sameting itself shall be able to determine the general principles of choice for the Velocity. In the additional message, this is moderated somewhat. The government parties have as their starting point that the rules for the selection of the merger should be laid down by Stortinget, but that we will at the same time await the suspension of the merger selection committee before a final decision is taken. The parties to the Government are concerned that the Sameting has legitimacy and have pointed out the differences between constituencies in terms of votes behind each mandate. The question of electoral rules is also constitutional. The merger was established by the Stortinget, on a proposal from the Government, on the grounds that it was representative of the Sami population. With regard to the electoral system itself, it is important to ensure the legitimacy of the Consetation in all Sami groups. The merger is based on the principle that minorities should be guaranteed rights. It is therefore not an objective to have the same number of votes behind each mandate in any case. If the results become too large, legitimacy may be questioned. Purgatory is a central part of Sami culture. Clean-up operations face a number of challenges, including: ensuring the areas of the reindeer farm. Securing the areas of reindeer management will include, inter alia: may be subject to revision of the Planning and Building Act. For example, clean-up operations are involved. in preparation for this legislative work by being represented in the Plan Law Committee. The Supplementary Communication should not call into question the value base and the starting point of the Cooperative Government's policy. The best common policy is obtained through mutual understanding between the Sami population, represented by the Sameting, and government and magnification.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e416	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e420	In the setting of the Municipal Committee, the Right stresses the regional policy challenges of Inner Finnmark, which are the core area of the Sami bus service. The government has proposed and received a majority in the United Kingdom for a significant reduction in regional policy instruments both for 2002 and 2003. Right comes with verbal statements that are widely debated, but the party will not allow the funds needed to implement the alert policy. My question to the representative Gitmark is therefore: how can the representative defend this clear line between words and action in his right-wing policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e425	I consider this question to be about the same as what was asked of the representative of Østberg from the representative Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen, and since Østberg speaks on behalf of all the government parties, I believe that his answer will be better than what I could give.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e430	The representative Peter Gitmark spoke relatively positively about Norwegian common policies. But last summer State Secretary Jørn Holme stated that it is not at all relevant to give the Sameting any exclusive right to manage the land and water resources in Finnmark. Let me ask concretely: Is it clear to the Right that the Sameting will never have any exclusive right to manage the land and water resources in Finnland, but that it should be equal in terms of land and water resources in terms of recreational use, industrial activities, etc. for all residents of Finnmark. I would like a clear answer from the Right to this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e435	The answer to the Advancement Party is yes. It is and will never be the Sameet alone that will control land and water, but it will be a collaboration. The proposal for the Finnish Law, which is now presented before Easter, will address these issues, and I believe that both the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left as well as the Government's main position will emerge there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e440	I note with wonder that Right is not interested in deepening its district policy. Then it is good for the Christian People's Party to deepen it on behalf of the Government when it concerns the local economy and when it concerns district policy. Normally, it is the right that is the leading figures for both of these important areas. I want to give Peter Gitmark the opportunity to answer the following: Does he think it is as important for Sami kids to learn their language as it is for Norwegian? Does he think that it is important that it is financially facilitated, and does he think that it is more important than ever to strengthen the funds for bilingualism, when the local economy is as tight as he is?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e447	I want to refer to last year's budget, where it was actually the Co-operation Government that proposed an increase in funds just to bilingualism by 5 million. kr. So we're doing something. At the same time, I state that the Centre Party and the Right have equal interests, by wanting bilingualism in the Sami core regions. We want Sami language as a living language, and to further develop it, and it costs money. We've done something about that, and we'll keep looking at that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e452	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e455	The Progress Party believes that Norwegian common policies need to be looked at with completely new eyes. For it is with ever-increasing unrest, increasing scepticism that the Progress Party is witnessing the conflict-building line of the Government and the large majority of people have submitted to it in relation to Norwegian common policies. Of course, the Progress Party is not in any way contrary to the Sami culture or language as such, but we strongly oppose the Sameness's call for ever-increasing self-determination, and we are opposed to the Joint Judiciary, which discriminates against the basic government of Finnmark based on ethnicity. That's why the Progress Party is going to put an end to the Sameting, and we're going to reject the joint trial at the same time. We strongly oppose the introduction of a governance model for the basic administration of land and water in Finnmark, which implies that the county council must share the governing authority with the Sameting. The combination should be discontinued as soon as possible, including: on the grounds that it becomes constitutionally wrong for an advisory body such as the Sameting to have the same authority as a democratically elected county in Finnmark to decide on the use of resources in the northern regions. The Progress Party believes that the entire joint court investigation must be withdrawn, and that the basic government of Finnmark should be governed by the same model as today, namely State Forest as the landowner and manager of, inter alia, Finnmark. the hunting and fishing rights in Finnmark. The Progress Party requires full equal treatment both between and between co-workers and non-co-workers in Finnmark. Such a view is considered inviolable by international law because it is based on equivalency and respect for the rights of individuals, regardless of race, religion or ethnicity. Of course, any person who is a Norwegian national shall have the same democratic rights as any other Norwegian national, both in terms of duties and requirements, the right to practice his language, to cultivate his culture and his social life, as long as this is done under normal Norwegian law. On this basis, the Progress Party fully trusts that Norwegian Sami people are resource-intensive people who themselves can preserve their language, their culture and their identity without having to be helped by specific laws, conventions, special legal conditions or their own political bodies for the Sami peoples group, such as: The whole thing. Like all of us, Samer is primarily an individual and a free citizen of the country who is not a uniform group in need of special laws and political forums based on ethnicity. Like all other Norwegian citizens, Samer may freely participate in all the democratic forums and bodies within the ordinary Norwegian constitutional and democratic system. Subdividing the population into political groups based on ethnicity will in the long term work both highly stigmatizing and against its purpose, even though it is never as well-meaning initially. The scientist Karsten Adriansen from Båtsfjord concludes in his book «Are Samemen Finnmark’s indigenous people?» that there is no evidence or evidence that Samer can be described as indigenous, neither in Finnmark nor in the North Calote. Adriansen, on the other hand, claims that Samer was probably the last of Finnmark’s present population to use Finnmark’s resources. Of course, additional co-politicians rage over Adriansen's conclusion, for his conclusion completely eliminates their legs under much of the foundations of Norwegian co-policy that is strongly built around ILO Convention No. 169 and the status of indigenous peoples. That Norway, as the first country in 1990, ratified ILO Convention No. 169 on indigenous peoples and indigenous peoples in independent countries are in themselves no evidence of indigenous status, but it is nevertheless produced by some. It can therefore be strongly questioned whether the status of indigenous peoples is correct, according to the criteria set out in ILO Convention No. 169 moves up. Neither Sweden nor Finland has ratified Convention No. 169. A Swedish public investigation concludes that Norway’s treatment of ILO Convention No. 169 should act as an alarm clock for Swedish decisions. Nor is it a legitimate democratic and representative body in any context. Firstly, the Sameeting is an undemocratic body on the basis of a representative consideration. From the north of the country, a representative has come in with 14 votes in his back. Furthermore, the party of progress takes a very strong distance from the fact that ethnic differentiation is to justify participation in the elections for the Sameting, because only those who consider themselves to be commoners and have Sami minds are thus entitled to vote. This is pure apartheid policy. No popular group should be granted extended democratic rights based on ethnicity. This will certainly create hatred and division, which is not desirable at all. It is very worrying that the majority of population add to a policy where a selected ethnic group will receive extensive special treatment at the expense of others. As I said, the merger is not a democratic or representative Sami body, but a body in which the drive is a small group of co-workers who do not have a very high level of indifference among co-workers elsewhere in Norway. I myself have a comprehensive contact network in Finnmark, and among other things I have contact with several co-workers, the co-workers who themselves are strongly opposed to the Sameting, and who believe that the Sameting in many ways only hurts their case. And what do we mean when prominent representatives in the Sameting speak for their own Sami foreign policy, their own Sami defence policy? It has its own flag, national anthem and national day. We look at more extreme opinions from the spokesperson of the Sametinge, where representatives from the largest party, the Norwegian Samers Riksförbund, are promoting opinions that are in effect calling for ethnic liberation and new state formation. This, of course, had not been so dangerously isolated, but when all parties, except the Advance Party, still promise increased Sami autonomy, these extreme joint expectations and demands for increased autonomy and Sami autonomy are stimulated at the same time. The government and the majority of the population create confusion, and unrealistic expectations are generated in some Sami political environments when the Sami right of self-determination is still being increased. The Progress Party does not in any way accept that the Sameting should be controlled by Finnmark at the expense of ethnic non-sams. We clearly say that it is absolutely not relevant to give the Sameting any form of territorial autonomy, as the Sameting requires. Unfortunately, however, the majority refuses to say clearly how far the limits of Sámi self-government will go. This is fatal. This doesn't matter, and it's a fake game, which grumbles under extremist positions in a small number of very politicalally active cohabitants. Some people have to say clearly about this before anything goes wrong in Finnmark. Finnmark people keep in touch with me and warn me about a new Bosnia, Basque Country or Kurdistan. Of course, such enquiries should be made with a certain amount of salt, but it is nevertheless indicative of the problem in the situation in the north, unfortunately. I would like to take up with this the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e486	The representative, Andersen, has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e491	It was strongly inclined by Andersen's representative. Samane is approved as a native because they bid in the country when today's borders were pulled up. That is why, through both national law and international law, Norwegian governance must, in our opinion, facilitate the development of this people's group's language, culture and society. I record that the Progress Party will absolutely not accept that together are indigenous, but believe that they are, however, a minority. It is not a sight-catching phenomenon. There is no general international definition of indigenous people, but when all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, take this into account when it comes to their legal basis, my question becomes to the representative Andersen: What kind of legal documentation does the Progress Party build its conclusions on? Is it just vision, or is it the scientist Karsten Adriansen who is the witness of truth?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e501	Then ILO Convention No. In 1990, 169 were adopted as a matter of urgency. It was pushed through too quickly in Stortinget. There were few hearings about it, and very few were able to comment. New information has been available since 1990. I want to say it so that together are not indigenous people after ILO Convention No. 169, because it requires that you live in harmony with previous social, economic and cultural traditions, and that you are a descendant of those who originally built Finnmark. Today, together are fully integrated into the Norwegian community, and they no longer live in the tents of Finnmarksvidda. Researcher Karsten Adriansen believes that there is no evidence that dating is really considered an indigenous person in Norway. The Progress Party is not a co-hosted party, but this is, therefore, scientific evidence to claim, and this is something that has emerged since the ratification of this ILO Convention by Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e506	I'm recording a very strong use of words from Andersen's representative. I'm not going into that kind of vocabulary. In the case that you no longer live as a native, the tent is still in use among the jointer in connection with nomadic relocation in terms of reindeer, so what Torbjørn Andersen here says must be based on ignorance. Otherwise, it amazes me, and it is the resistance to targeted implementation of measures that could have had the effect of equalising differences. Can Andersen justify why the Progress Party is showing so much opposition to providing support for the preservation and further development of the Sami language? What kind of discrimination should there be in relation to the Norwegian population, or for that matter in relation to the Sami culture, in relation to Sami handicrafts, duodji, handicrafts that have existed for generations, but which have so few taken care of, because there are few cohabitants, and which will otherwise die out? Can Torbjørn Andersen provide a reason why it will be difficult for the Progress Party to provide support for such schemes?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e515	Had the representative heard from Ballo after I made my contribution, he had heard that I said that we in the Advancement Party are not against either Sami culture, language or social life for the rest. What we mean is that you don't need a combination to do this. I actually have so much faith in Samer as an individual and as people that this they can handle themselves, without having a gathering body to guide them. With regard to the most fundamental main objection of the Advance Party, it's precisely the Samething we want to settle down. It's the whole thing that we think is superfluous, but we're not in any way a cohesive party. We have so much faith in the Sami peoples that we believe that their language, their culture, their identity, their social life can be very well cared for without a combination.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e522	I have often seen the Advance Party as a party that will point to law and justice. In these settings, two Supreme Court judgments have been rewritten, and the Supreme Court states that it is not doubtful that groups are indigenous to Norway. What is the greatest professional and legal weight for the Progress Party, is the Norwegian Supreme Court or the scientist Karsten Adriansen? What does the Progress Party put into it when they say that together is a minority in Finnmark and should be treated as such? They add correctly to ‘scientist Karsten Adriansen’, but since they quote him, I assume they mean the same thing. What should it mean to be treated as a minority as such?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e529	It's always the way in this world that what was once perceived as a truth, sooner or later can be changed by new information and new facts. In my reply to Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen, among others, I indicated that since ILO Convention No. 169 were ratified by Norway in 1990, some new information has emerged, which raises doubts as to whether they are really indigenous. Finnmark has been a population for perhaps 10,000 years, and together are probably the people who used Finnmark's resources last time. When new scientific information comes up, you have to be able to attach some trust to them, take them into account and see if what you thought before is really good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e536	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e539	President! A manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e544	All right.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e547	The representative Torbjørn Andersen builds up under the misunderstanding that the concept of the "hero" is linked to who first came to an area. That's not what's related to the international definition of indigenous people. The definition is related to whether the population group occupied the area at the time the state borders were drawn. There is little doubt about that. Secondly, the question of definition is whether one has retained some of its characteristics. There's also little doubt about that. So maybe it makes sense to deal with the international definitions and not your own vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e554	Then we're going to say that it's clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e557	It's been 23 years since there were demonstrators in the Pacific. What the Alta fight was about was an overrun of Sami interests, and it was also about the rage of Norwegian nature. Today we are dealing with a new merger message, and then it is important to establish and maintain some principles. Democratic principles indicate that the majority decides. But a democracy that does not have a policy to protect the interests of the minority is totally unacceptable. Respect, diversity and equivalency are ideals that SV will highlight. The policies of indigenous peoples must be developed in accordance with their tradition, way of life and future interests. The ability of indigenous peoples to achieve real equality and equality depends on both rights, the allocation of resources and political power. That's why the whole thing is so important. In a few days' time, when the new Finnmark Act comes, we'll get a test piece on whether you can handle the kiss in a reasonable way. But the Sameeting as a political body is incredibly important, because law and law are not enough. Those who don't understand it, and who want to put the Sameting down, choose unity, conflict and justice rather than cooperation, dialogue and diversity. SV believes that the Sameting must have more influence and that they must be given higher status as a political body. Nevertheless, there is a need for better cooperation between the Sameting and Stortinget. SV and the Central Party have undertaken to bring it up with the Presidency and make sure that the Sametinget does not, as today, be treated as any lobbyist. Our main interaction partner cannot be treated in this way. That is why we believe that there is a need to have more regular meetings and a different form of cooperation with committees other than the Municipal Committee. SV agrees that we need to transfer more responsibility to Sametinget. However, it presupposes that state authorities do not waive participation and cooperation responsibilities in cases where Sameting has been given authority and does not discharge responsibility for financing actions that have been decentralised. It's happening to Sametinget, and it's also happening to the local government sector. The SV would stress that national responsibility for achieving the objectives of the common policy must not be weakened. For example, the grant scheme established to cover bilingual expenses must cover the real costs. SV is not opposed to new funding opportunities, e.g. in the case of Sami centres and multi-use houses, but we would strongly warn against using alternative funding as a disclaimer from government and accumulation to avoid being responsible for achieving policy objectives. SV also considers it important to strengthen the Sami identity and to take into account the fact that children and young people can today identify with both Sami and Norwegian. It is important to identify measures that enable parents and supervisors who have lost the Sami language to be supportive of their children when learning Sami. Like the school, kindergarten also has to add to real dual-functional linguisticism. SV is also pleased to have had an impact on the government considering lowering the requirement for the number of students required to establish a Sami class during 2003. Outside the Sami language area, ten students are now required to create a class. In several municipalities, among others: in Troms, this requirement is so high for each year's coal. In practice, there will be a lot of Sami students as a native language who will not be able to go to a Sami class. We are very pleased that the Government is now going to look at this. The strong commitment to culture that Sameetinget has chosen to focus on for years is important. Feeling safe and proud of their own basis for meeting others with personal security and equivalency is important. The rich cultural heritage and the new cultural impressions of the Sami population are a great enrichment for everyone. In a modern time in a mobile and changeable world, we see that personal identity building becomes more important and important as a basis for other life unfolding. Strengthening Sami culture will therefore only be a good thing for society as a whole. Finnmark is one of the areas, in addition to Oslo's inner east, which has the biggest poverty problems. Therefore, in the Communication, SV has pointed to the problems of the Government weakening both district policy and deforestation policy, and that the spin-off from a broad welfare policy against narrow poverty-setting does not benefit Finnmark and its population. SV is very critical to that side of the Government's policy. As regards reindeer management, SV also believes that the Sameting must be given greater responsibility to clarify the common policy guidelines for reindeer management policy. It is, we think, an important decentralisation of responsibility, so that we have to address the difficult conflict of priorities. However, this has to be done on a maritime basis, assuming that the State is responsible for taking over overall environmental concerns and that the industry framework conditions must be such as to enable it to live in the future. So to one of the difficult areas, the protective plan work in Tysfjord. SV has argued that the work on the protection plan must provide for a protection which is not a threat to the future Lulesamian nuclear domain. The protection and use of the site needs to be clarified in the planning process, and some fundamental clarifications will result from the setting of the SFM to new Finnmark law. I think the distrust shown by the lukewarm seeds and, in fact, the feelings towards the big community and towards the levelling work must be taken seriously. This distrust can only be corrected by the fact that the state actually takes care of the interests that we are going to adopt today, in the planning process and during the protection plan work. If it fails, they have been given the right in a way that those interests are not important enough for the big community. For SV, it is important to stress that we believe they are. In the main message, SV has also pointed to the legal aid situation for Inner Finnmark. It is a welfare and rule of law problem that those with the lowest income and the greatest need for legal assistance are those who use legal aid at least. There have been some changes to the legal aid system that have improved the situation somewhat, but SV is still of the opinion that the Legal Aid Office of Inner Finnmark should be strengthened instead of weakening, and that this is an consideration that we can in some way not only push over to the general general arrangements, but that we must take care of in a special and stronger way than what we have done in the arrangements we have today. One of the interesting issues that has been raised in the course of the debate is the issue of indigenous areas. There is nothing to say about it in the communication, but it is linked to one of the other major political debates a day, namely differentiated employer fees, which is an incredibly important scheme for the whole of Finnmark and thus also for the Sami areas. All Sámi areas are located within the areas that benefit from the scheme as it is today. It has been called for the establishment of an indigenous zone. SV has not taken a stand on this, but we think it is an interesting idea to consider, because there is no doubt that the indigenous status will give a different weight in international negotiations than the purely Norwegian district policy interests. The problem with such a system will be that it will be difficult to address other parts of the country which also face major regional policy challenges and which may be even more difficult to negotiate on such difficult issues. I think we should look at all such recordings as constructive, and SV wants to look at this as an opportunity in the future. I would like to mention that proposal in the setting to which SV is co-rapporteur, if it is not already busy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e592	The representative Karin Andersen has taken up the proposal she referred to, whether it's taken up earlier or not. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e597	The representative, Andersen, expressed concern at the mistrust of the Lulesamian population in the state protection plan process. It is not too strong to say that the Lulesamian population in the area has expressed fear of being overrun in this process. Would it not then have been reasonable either that the matter had been taken out of the protective plan, as the Labour Party and a majority in the Committee, but not a majority of the parties in the Chamber, had agreed, or that at least the requirement that the matter be brought back to the Grand Duchy to balance and ensure that these considerations are respected, instead of giving the Ministry of the Environment the power to decide the matter, as is actually done through the proposal put forward by the SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e602	There are several interests that SV has been concerned about taking care of in this case. I want to repeat what I said instead, that we take this distrust from the Sami interests seriously. Throughout history, it has probably been such that not only has one felt, but also in practice has both been suppressed and overrun. One of the reasons why we have to have a special common policy today is that the big community has not cared for these interests. When the majority agrees with the proposal we have made today, it is because we perceive that there are interests relating to nature protection, which can be taken care of at the same time as taking care of the interests of the Lulesamian society and its future. We perceive that the commitments made by the government parties by formulating these proposals, as they have done in conjunction with SV, are so strong that these interests should be taken care of in the planning process, and they can only be taken care of there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e609	The representative, Karin Andersen, said something like that, that those who want to shut down the Sameting choose conflict. Of course, it's the Advance Party she's looking for here. But it's not just the Progress Party that's going to shut down the whole thing. I'm going to refer from the newspaper Finnmarken on February 28th this year, where it says, "Isak Mathis O. Danger will put down the contraction. ‘The journalist asks: ‘Does this mean that you agree with the Advancement Party and Carl I. Hagen?’ Danger replies: ‘... as progress has progressed, I agree with them that things should be closed’. Isak Mathis O. Danger is also the vice-president of the largest constituency, Kautokeino. Then you can ask, when Karin Andersen praises the Sameting in the clouds and says that everything is so good with the Sameting: what is Karin Andersen's comment that even central jointing members believe that the Sameting should be closed?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e614	I record with a bit of apprehension that there are magnificence representatives, elected into a democratic body, who do not believe that the best way to resolve conflicts is by trying to find political solutions. I think the Progress Party has slept in all the history hours, and they choose to close their eyes to the abuses and overruns that have been done throughout the history of the group. The reason why we have to adopt some of these things is that the big community has not taken care of these interests, that it is not possible to achieve an equivalent situation without democratic bodies that can speak on behalf of the population. It's so that you can express extreme views both here and there. If prominent representatives in the Stortinget speak for extreme positions, there may also be some who want to put down the Stortinget. I don't think there's any very good idea, like I don't think it's any good idea to put the Sameting down.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e621	The center part and SV are grouped in many areas of this setting. It's obvious. In one area, we separate layers, in particular in the management of the Tysfjord-Hellemobot area and the question of protection. Now, Karin Andersen says that there are nature considerations that make SV stand for what they're doing here. We're all together, the non-Progress Party, in a common multiple that says there doesn't have to be any contradiction between nature protection and natural management. SV is involved in the proposal that Ivar Østberg has put forward today. What, though, does the representative Karin Andersen actually see must be made out of lulesamic interests, and how should they be dealt with if it is not to take the Tysfjord-Hellemobotn area out of the protection plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e628	In some areas there may be a conflict between nature protection and the lulesamic interests. There are slightly different ways of developing the nutrient base based on the natural resources of the different Sami areas. There are some undecided points in this area. But SV believes, unlike the Central Party and the majority, that these conflicts can be resolved within the planning process. With the knowledge we have of the leadership that has been passed through the treatment, among other things. in the county of Nordland, care is taken of the lulesamic interests in a good manner in the planning process. We believe that the Sami interests are better protected by being strong in terms of nature and environmental protection because it is precisely the natural basis of the Sami population.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e633	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e636	Samane is an indigenous population in the North Callot, bound together by a common language, a common culture and a common history. Because most people live together in Norway, Norway has a special responsibility for the development of its culture and their living conditions. Together their teams in Sweden, Finland and Russia will depend on the lifestyle of the Norwegians together. The ratification of the ILO Convention and the work done by Norway for other minorities and indigenous peoples also give Norway a special international responsibility. The Centre Party will provide the Sami population with opportunities for cultural and material development on its own basis and will allow the different Sami language and cultural groups to develop their own specificities. We are opposed to interventions in the field of use that weaken the Sami primary industries. Together, through the Sameting and other bodies, there must be a greater impact on the planning and action of the Sami population. The central party will underline the importance of having a general policy that also takes care of the Sami population. When rural policy, industrial policy and cultural policy are weakened, it is also negative for the Sami population. When the government chooses to look away from Difference Norway and measures in relation to subsampling, and when the local economy is dramatically weak, it gets the result for the Sami population. The centre party is in favour of a Community policy, in which we take care of the community over tax laws for those of us who have the most. We know that it also benefits the Sami people. Within the 5 minute speaking time, I will refer in indent form to some of the central game recordings that have been recorded in the plural setting: The dialogue between the Sameting and the municipalities and the county councils in question must be mutual.In addition, administrative bodies other than the central reindeer management department need to recruit joint practicers.In order to maintain reindeer terms, city names and terms related to other Sami industries, the collection and systematisation of this material must be prioritised. The majority ask the Government to consider measures that will increase factual information about community relationships, in this different business and professional context.A sufficient number of Sami-speaking foster homes need to be recruited for those cases where Sami children need to take care of them.State funding for the continuing education and internship needs to be ensured.Nearly elderly care must also be organised for languages.Bilinguality means are needed in healthcare companies and other state health services, so that previous practices can be passed on. The plurality highlights the importance that the Sameting and local authorities are involved in matters relating to natural areas with special protection value.We are working together with the Labour Party and the Progress Party to take Hellemofordn in its entirety out of the Tysfjord–Hellemo protection plan. Unfortunately, we are only associated with SV when it comes to covering the costs of bilingualism. And I hope that the multiples are going to come to that point later. We also agree with SV that it is a national responsibility to finance Sami centres and multi-purpose houses. When we open up other funding, it is not because we want the state to discharge its responsibilities.We want to ask the Government to evaluate national policy guidelines for Sami issues and planning work, in municipalities and county municipalities.We want to strengthen the Justice Office in Inner Finnmark. We agree with the Workers' Party on a comprehensive review and an assessment of the loss of pure to predatory game.We are part of the majority of the committee that, after the participation of the Workers' Party, will have a value creation program based on traditional nutritional activities together. – It was the end of my time, so I'll be back later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e701	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e705	The Centre Party and the Workers' Party are united for the most part in this setting. In fact, on one point, the Labour Party is all alone. In our view, the objective of bringing together, through the Sameting, will be to decide for itself about matters relating in particular to the Sami population, will be best achieved if you allow the Sameting itself to have authority over issues related to the Sameting electoral system. I record, as I said, that none of the other parties have joined that view. But to the extent that there should be differing assessments between the Sameting and the State bodies on how the constituencies are to be divided, what the distribution of mandates should be like, would there not be strong fundamental reasons why it would be necessary for the Sameting itself to define what is best, in accordance with Sami tradition and Sami judgment? And in that case, why does the Central Party not agree with the assessment that this authority should be assigned to the Sameting?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e712	What has been said in the setting up of the various parties when it comes to the electoral system is the basis for a closer study. It's e.g. in such a way that the Centre Party is free to follow up the anti-aliasing mandate according to the same model as in the case of a magnification choice, and where these mandates are to be applicable to the underrepresented sex. It is such that the Workers' Party will also allow spouses to vote for the union that stands in the number of men. We believe that the Storting should be responsible for different electoral arrangements, but we will have more respect for what the Sameting says than the Labour Party in some areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e719	The representative Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa is very positive about the work of the Sametinget and the Sametinge. I have basically just a little, okay, short question. It's true that the criteria for putting in the same number of people and getting involved in elections are that you have to have a certain amount of Sami blood and feel the same way. Does the representative Meltveit Kleppa think that ethnicity is actually the basis for being allowed to participate in a democratic election? I think it is very strange that democratic rights to participate in elections should be linked to ethnicity. I find it very suspicious!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e726	It is enough that the Centre Party and the Progress Party have their counterparts in relation to the policy in this area. When the Progress Party initiates its comment by saying that «the equality and respect for the individual's peculiarity, the right to unfold and to decide on his own life, is an important and fundamental view of society», I got the impression today, through Andersen's contributions, that it should apply to a number of other peoples, but not to one another. For our part, we base the ILO Convention that Norway has ratified, the Constitutional Decision that is in place, and the practice that is otherwise established. We thought the Sameeting is a very good arrangement – for the Sami people as well as for the others.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e733	The entire Committee has been committed to ensuring the lulesamic interests in the lulesamian core region of Tysfjord. As regards land management in areas with Sami settlements, a broad majority – all lots, including the Centre Party – say that it is ‘knowing that the Sámi core regions include large natural values, which are an important national task for the future, not least as a basis for continued Sami settlement, business and culture’. And on the other hand, ‘The majority will stress the importance of the involvement of the Sameting and local authorities in issues relating to natural areas of particular protection.’ Why, then, do we have to draw this area out completely and not follow the wishes of the Alliance for a national process, as some of us have suggested?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e747	The reason why we believe that the Hellemofjord should be extracted is a comment that the Workers' Party and the Centre are united in stating that the Hellemofjord with its surrounding areas is at the heart of the Sami population in the Lulesamian region. We've already been told how they in the only and last lulesamic fjord settlement in Norway themselves believe that their life base can be taken care of further. We have confidence that additional spending will take care of this population in a good way – this is the point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e754	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e757	We're dealing with St.meld today. No 55 for 2000-2001. The processing should have been delayed, so that the representatives had had more time. But now that we're handling the message, we'll handle it. I'm not going to go into the fact that it's published a book, «Is Samele Finnmark's indigenous people?» – I just want to mention it from this pulpit. You can ask questions about whether that's exactly what it says, but a book is now a book, and those who oppose that book, you should write a new book. I have tabled a proposal from this chair on the protection and use of the sea. My reverential claim is that there is no basis in the Nature Conservation Act to peace the sea. It is governed by the Seawater Fish Act and by the laws administered by the Ministry of Fisheries, but not by the Nature Conservation Act. How many times we deal with big business messages against the law on nature protection in this room, it doesn't give the law any greater scope. Promises are made by Odelstinget and Lamentationet – whether we like it or not. Laws may not be adopted by the Grand Duchy, as evidenced by the constitutional order. The only legal basis available is a three-page letter – I repeat: three pages – from the Royal Ministry of Justice and Police. I will refer to the end of this letter, signed by a law counsellor and a consultant. The letter says: ‘After this, we tend to believe that the Law on Nature Conservation generally also applies to marine areas, including the masses of water, the seabed, as well as to plant and animal life there. We do not consider whether all forms of protection under the Nature Conservation Act can be used in relation to such areas.» That is the whole foundation of the law on nature protection. Let it be said from this pulpit: that is the whole foundation of the house! Let's go to a big bell! When the Minister for the Environment and the Ministry for the Environment have said that the adopted coastal protection plan for Northern Ireland will apply, it will. On the basis of a private proposal, the Ministry of the Environment, the Council of State, has written a letter to the Energy and Environment Committee dated 15 February 2001. The letter says, among other things: the impact of protective measures of more than 250 km2 and all protective measures greater than 500 km2. It is clear from that letter, which everyone here has received from the Ministry of the Environment, that Tysfjord and the interior of Hellemofjorden are to be saved, because it is a peaceful area of the Northland Coast Guard Plan. It says – and it’s amazing – that in the Stortinget we adopt preliminary planning area limits for restoration and protection, and the consequences of protection, in the Tysfjord–Hellemo area. So, we are adopting preliminary planning areas in Stortinget. They're in the county environmental protection department and they're drawing with a thousand. Then we decide in Stortinget that what they've drawn with thousands of preliminary protection areas should be like this. So we give permission to those who sit and draw with thousands, that they still have to draw with thousands! We have no problems in our party with going in and pulling out Hellemof soil and internal part, as Section 2 suggests. I have no problem joining. Because it's not a big secret that the Coastal Party is going against that plan, and preliminary area boundaries are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e783	Time's up!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e786	Yes, the time is up, but I could have said a lot, a lot more.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e791	The President is not in doubt.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e795	The additional communication on common policies – and the issues currently under consideration, i.e. St.meld. No 55 for 2000-2001, St.meld. No 33 for 2001-2002 and St.meld. No 10 for 2002–03 – is an important status document, which draws up the experience of how far we have come in relation to policy towards and in cooperation with the indigenous population together in Norway. It is also important because it points to the future priorities of the work, at the same time as it is a document that I will not call shell-setting, either for the previous government or for ours, because it is part of a follow-up to a policy taken over several years in Norway. That is why I am very pleased to note, in the light of the Committee's comments, that all parties, with the exception of one, stand behind the main lines of Norwegian common policies. I think that gives a great deal of security to the Sami population as a minority and as an indigenous person. It provides security for those who are to work on designing common policies in practical terms and who will continue to work on the range of actions mentioned both by the previous government and by this government. I would like to stress that common policies are cross-sectoral. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has a coordinating role. But it is true that very many of the themes of common policy are defined both at other levels of government and in other departments. The Ministry of Church and Culture, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Agriculture are important departments which play an important role in shaping and achieving the objectives we want for common policies. The coordinated role is important for us to see how things relate, and for it not to be big holes. We can, for example: note that during this large-scale session we find that, among other things: has addressed a majorisation message related to higher Sami education and research, which has been important and has drawn up some important lines in that area. During the previous ageing period, a unanimous increase in the human rights law of 21 May 1999 was adopted. It adopted a unanimous decision. This law made the United Nations Convention on Civil and Social Rights a Norwegian law. Article 27 of this Convention provides for the right to special protection for ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities. I stress that the decision was unanimous, because it is somewhat surprising that when we go through what is going on to ensure that the indigenous peoples – the linguistic minority in Norway – meet together, rights under the UN Convention, which has therefore also been voted for by the Progress Party, there is no point of view as to what should be followed up policy. It is surprising that you fall back on the simple rhetoric related to whether you are an indigenous or not, as a comment on every point that has been raised in the Committee's vote. There may well be grounds for asking questions – if we are to follow Article 27 of this Convention, for which the Progress Party has voted – about what is the party's policy for the linguistic minority together. So we have to go further in shaping the political and follow-up positions than the Progress Party has done. This may well indicate that you are not thinking about the relationship between different types of decisions you agree to. Policies towards indigenous peoples and minorities are enshrined in international conventions. Norway, as a rich country, needs to be aware of the signal effects of our treatment of indigenous and minority peoples, in particular with regard to other countries that are less able to provide that kind of protection and development for their minorities because of their economic situation. The development of indigenous peoples as a minority policy is, in my view, also a development of democracy. It is important in a democracy that we have mechanisms that also safeguard minority rights and that it is not just the rights of the majority that democracy focuses on. Norway has a specific responsibility towards Sami culture. If Norway does not take care of Sami culture and languages, we cannot expect others to do so. There is simply no one else in our society who will be able to take care of this unless the Norwegian society as a whole does. This is why the Government has clearly underlined in its supplementary communication that our priority is in language, it is in youth, and it is in cultural development. The next major milestone in relation to indigenous policy is the Finnish Law. The Communication states that it will be presented in spring 2003. I would like to stress that it is a difficult matter, where there are many cross-cutting considerations that need to be taken care of. We have to assume that someone doesn't get very satisfied with what we're doing, maybe they won't be so dissatisfied either. But perhaps one of the important roles we have as politicians is to find the balance between different points of view and to balance the cross-estimated considerations with each other. In committee proceedings, the relationship between Sami customs, rights and protective regimes has been debated. Nature and land protection is a prerequisite for the preservation of the material basis of Sami culture. We must not forget that. There will be no preservation of Sami culture and the possibility of Sami nutrient development if we do not have the nature and land protection that is a prerequisite for doing so. In several cases, protective plans are seen as a threat to Sami culture. I don't think that should be necessary. I believe that there are interests we should try to balance, so that Sami culture and lifestyles and Sami food routes can also live within a protected area. The Ministry of the Environment, together with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, has a dialogue with the Sameting on these matters, in particular the Stabbursdalen and Hellemobotn. There is consensus in the Committee that a well-functioning business life is important in areas of Sami settlement. I see that there is disagreement about the choice of instruments, but I am pleased that the objectives are common. And I see that today's debate is not really a debate on common policy issues, but it is about the various points of view we might have relating to the use of public funds on various measures. However, I would like to stress that, in the context of the development of a well-functioning business, it is also about ensuring that the Sami areas become broad societies with different types of competence. And in that context, this government has taken one of the perhaps biggest steps that has been taken, namely to add the Regional Office of the Food Agency for Troms and Finnmark to Kautokeino. In fact, it is a way of building wider competences in a community, and it provides a broader basis for spin-offs and other types of business development. We should not forget that it is among the most active measures that can be taken in an economically poor area, and in an area that may need a balance between more than the Sami interests, namely the presence of the Norwegian State with some of its institutions in this area. We see that the opposition asks the Government to set up a value creation programme for Sami areas based on traditional Sami activities in agriculture, reindeer farming, fishing and traditional crafts, either alone or in combination. There is already a value creation programme for reindeer management. Of course, we will consider this proposal in the further work to be done, and in cooperation with the Sameting, which also has instruments related to Sami economic development. The Municipal Committee has on several occasions been concerned with the rules governing the elections to the Sameting. We are working on this in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. Our starting point, which has also been agreed by the majority, is that the legitimacy of the elections should ultimately be given by also sanctioning the electoral rules by the Stortinget. Of course, we will place the decisive emphasis on what comes as proposals from the Sameting, but it is nevertheless true that when the Storting is the national parliament of the country, national authorities should also give the legitimacy it will be that we will finally sanction the electoral rules to be. There are many countries that have electoral rules according to which it is easy to make changes with the constituencies over a period of time. Those countries have received many names in state-scientific literature. One of the reasons why it is difficult to make changes to the electoral rules in relation to the Storting is precisely to ensure that no changes in convenience should be made quickly. I believe that the mechanism that the Storting and the Government will finally sanction this, is indeed an important instrument also to give strong legitimacy to the future elections to the Sameting. The Sem Declaration states that the Government will pursue a policy that protects the right to and increases respect for it to be different and to think differently. For this reason, the Cooperative Government will pursue a cultural and knowledge policy that will make each one secure on its own and other people’s personal and cultural identity. There's something I want to stress, because in this context, it's not just questions about what we do in relation to the rights and duties of our fellows in our society, but also about how the rest of Norwegian society gets a greater awareness of the cultural heritage that unites also means to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e834	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e837	In the big news that we are now debating, there is an extensive presentation of the way of life for the people of Inner Finland, which is the Sami core area. The community economy is bad. It makes it very difficult for municipalities to put in place measures to improve living conditions for those who have the most difficult things in our society. The government has received support here in the House for proposals to significantly reduce regional policy instruments for both 2002 and 2003. My question to the Solberg State Council is therefore: What action will the Government take to improve the living conditions of the Sami people in Inner Finland?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e842	I do not agree that the local economy is bad in Inner Finnmark. In fact, it is the area with the highest transfer of income into the local government sector. At the same time, there are a lot of big challenges, but I think that if you compare the economy of the municipalities in this area, with the economy of a lot of other vulnerable municipalities in this country, these are actually municipalities that have a very good economy in relative terms. It's also the case that the Workers' Party would have had a slightly better local economy, but it's still about half a percent higher than what we wanted. I sometimes think – and I would like to stress it in this context too – that it is a bit oversold, especially when the party secretary can go out and talk about this being pure atcherism. I realize that the difference is 0.5 pst. in municipal transfers to ensure that there is a pure data-cherism policy or something comparable to other previous regimes in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e849	State Council Solberg indicated that the Finnish Law will soon be presented by the Government. She said that no one would be very pleased with what they brought. That's what she said. So we'll see what it's going to be. I would like to refer to Gudmund Alfredsson, a well-known Icelandic lawyer with several years of work in the United Nations working group on indigenous peoples. He says that international conventions on indigenous rights do not go as far as granting self-determination. No government accepts self-determination, i.e. autonomy, and ILO Convention No. 169 may not be used to establish the right of self-determination, as required by the Sameting. At the risk of perhaps not getting an answer, for this is perhaps a forerunner of the Finnland Act, I will nevertheless allow myself to ask the Council of State: Is she in agreement with the statements of Gudmund Alfredsson that ILO Convention No. 169 cannot be used to establish the right of self-determination, as required by the Sameting?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e858	The response was given in the supplementary message from this government. We have defined the right of self-determination of the ILO Convention as a right of co-determination, an opportunity to influence and participate in policy-making in areas relating to one's own. It is a definition that we believe is international law as an interpretation of the ILO Convention, and to which I note that the Stortinget has joined in what they have now written in the position – that it is not self-righteous in terms of territorial self-determination this should be interpreted as, but it is a right of participation in relation to important events and important areas affecting the development of the indigenous people themselves. Then I think we have clarified that interpretation by the Norwegian National Assembly through the treatment of this biggest message.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e863	I think the Council of State is right in saying that maybe the big difference here between the government parties and some of us in the common policy is not what we're saying, but what we're doing. It is about being able to finance the measures we are saying are necessary, correct and important in order to implement common policies in practice. But then the council also says that she, like SV, is concerned that interference in nature can be a threat to Sami interests in the future. This is one of the reasons why SV, together with the Centre Party, has made a proposal to ask the Government to assess the need for national policy guidelines for Sami issues for the planning work in municipalities and county municipalities, precisely because we believe that the natural basis is very important; that is the whole prerequisite for reindeer management. Therefore, I have to ask the Council of State: what is the reason why the Government, when it places so much emphasis on this, does not see the need for such national policy guidelines?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e870	We have not understood so far that there has been a need to establish national policies, including national policies. because we have a relatively high level of practice and competence related to how to manage these issues. In the area that is most likely to be in the discussion phase, the new Finnish law will also have a major impact. We believe that so far there has been no need to do so. Of course, we will have a clear eye as to whether or not there should be own guidelines, other ways of interpreting them, whether or not to make a separate resolution with national policy guidelines, and as to whether or not there is a large enough need to do so in relation to the practices that are managed and understood. The two judgments we have now had relating to the Supreme Court have also laid the basis for understanding, among other things. of the customary rights of the reindeer industry and which must therefore also be taken into account in the further work done in municipalities where there are Sami interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e875	I have two questions for the Council of State. Both are related to what it says is the Government's main area, e.g. language. First, at the base of Sirma in Tana Valkrins, Sami children receive training in Sami language and culture, a good basis for training in their own community with the security and belongings it represents. If the school leaves due to tight municipal economy, it will be followed for the training. Is it the case that the Council of State believes that the municipality economy in Finnmark is so good that branch schools are not closed down, or that the cost of bilingual education is not a problem? So says a majority in the committee that a worthy care for the elderly must be organised even when it comes to language, and points to the need for bilingual services to healthcare professionals and other state health services, so that previous practices can be passed on. How will the Council of State follow it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e884	The question of the means of bilingualism in relation to health institutions and the change that has now taken place in the state, that it is no longer under the county council, is a matter on which we have ongoing discussions with the Ministry of Health to ensure that that treatment is good. The Health Minister has also met with representatives of the Sameting, where this very topic has been addressed, and has a work in progress, to follow up that question. No, I do not doubt that there are any shortcomings in the municipal economy in the Finnish municipalities as well. At the same time, I would like to stress that compared with other municipalities in the country, I do not think these are the municipalities that have the biggest challenges and the biggest problems. That's where I think we should be honest. It is a rather solid addition to the Finnland municipalities in the income system. These include: justified by major challenges there. Of course, we can choose; we can go into only objective criteria for individual municipalities, and then we can figure out that then and so much more costs we have in that area and that area. But then we have to choose it instead of in general compensating, as we have done with the general grants, which are especially high in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e895	I understand that I have to correct my impression that Councillor Erna Solberg would regard the concept of daterism as an honorary term. The year-on-year situation in the Sami core region is alarming. Therefore, there has been broad agreement on the need for action. There is a need for a stronger focus on business and employment. The government's response is to weaken district policy and, with it, to weaken efforts for business and employment. There is a need for a stronger policy to address welfare challenges. The government's response is a weakening of the local economy and with it a weakened welfare situation in these areas. Isn't it using a medicine that's the exact opposite of what government parties have prescribed? Moreover, while we are waiting for the Finnmark Act, it is interesting to note that the Right as a party before and in elections issued a guarantee that the Sameting should not play a role in the administration of land and water in Finnmark. We're all waiting for the Right answer in government position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e904	I think Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen gets to live in excitement a little bit more. When it comes to thatcherism, I don't think it's a negative word, but I think it's a pointless word, used as the Party Secretary of the Workers' Party uses it. Not because it weakens what this government stands for, but it ridicules the distances of Norwegian politics whose difference in heaven and hell is 0.5 pst. in the case of an increase in local government finances. Then there's kind of something about the proportions of what you're doing, which just makes me realize why you're developing political contempt. This government has done more for business and for industry than any other government in the last 20 years. We have had a main effort to do something about the framework conditions, and we have also done something about the framework conditions – as opposed to the period when Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen was Minister of Finance, where interest went up continuously. So now the interest rate has gone down 1.5 pst. Since the budget was adopted, which was tight, precisely in order to achieve this. We might have to include that in the picture when we discuss the exact amount of transfers to SND at any time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e913	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e918	It is, of course, a strength that so many parties stand together in their consideration in the position being treated in the Chamber today. I note in particular a wording initially where the majority, all except the Advance Party, as a principle starting point for its common policy, assumes that the state of Norway is originally established in the territory of two peoples – Samer and Nordmen – and that both peoples have the same right and the same requirement to develop their culture and language. As far as the Sami language and culture are concerned, their strengthening should not be contrary to the interests of anyone else in general in Norway. It should be possible to grant funds for Sami learning materials, so that you had a good time with learning material in school. It should be possible to strengthen both primary, secondary and higher education, where it is precisely the starting point for the development of both the Sami language and the Sami culture. This also applies, of course, to various other cultural and language measures, such as: funds for Sami newspapers. Therefore, there is a certain lack of consistency between life and learning in terms of the Government and its willingness to go into particular relation to Inner Finnland, how great the challenges are in this area. We saw that, in the context of the Cohesion Communication, there was a majority in the United Kingdom who wanted action in this area, while the measures did not come. I also note another observation on which the majority agrees, where the concept of self-determination is problematic and underlines: ‘The majority consider it irrelevant with some form of territorial autonomy.’ In relation to this type of majority opinion, there is a major challenge in the Finnland Act, because if one chooses solutions in this Finnland Act that seek to give the Sameting a type of influence where they either have equal representation or are in majority, that majority comment is in reality broken. Because it is obvious that the Finnish law as an important element will have governing rights over a territory. And if the government thinks anything with that kind of considerations, when you come up with the law, you have to come back with formulations that guarantee a democratic basis for the entire population living in the area. Because in that area, unlike in the other areas I have mentioned, there will just be a conflict in the population if the solutions chosen are not such that the whole population can be involved in making decisions. It could rightly be seen by many, even rightly, to be undemocratic if too much emphasis is placed on a body that does not have full influence on the whole population and where not all the population will be represented to have influence in that body.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e932	It is clear that from 1998 there has been a regular meeting between Sametinget and some departments. This means that there is a possibility of a dialogue in advance of the preparation of both the budget and other matters. There's a funny comment from SV and the Center Party that mentions Sameting's contact with Stortinget. What's funny about that comment is that it's not a group committee that's behind it. It's my impression that more than these two parties are a little bit surprised that the Sametinget e.g. in the context of the budget, shall be seen in the same way as any other hearing authority. So I want to use the opportunity to underline to the Presidency the responsibility they have here in the Grand Duchy, just as the responsibility of the Government has already taken place when it comes to strengthening the dialogue with the Sameting. It also means, of course, that the whole thing is heard when they present their views – not so that one follows up literally everything that had to come, but that one carries out an assessment of it. At the last budget, Mr. Sametinget asked, in our view, with good reason, to strengthen his budget. We in the Center Party followed up with funds, and it's my wish that more people will do it in the next round. I notice today that the Right's representative is pleased that the Government strengthened its efforts for bilingualism by 5 million. kr. I don't think I'm much for a government that has language as its main exposure. I am pleased that the Council of State stressed that the local economy is actually as tight as it is given the impression – so this is not so simple in practice. But I also hope that the Council of State will take on board that if language is to be a major field of action, it will have to follow up with better promises both when it comes to bilingualism, and, not least, when it comes to the local economy, so that it does not get on the path of strengthening the effort when it comes to language, risks even more schools being closed down and the effort thus weighs down.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e939	Allow me just a few words on a topic that has been very little affected in the debate. The cleaning industry claims that the industry has a loss of pure to predatory game in the thousands of dimensions. The State Redeployment Administration has confirmed to the Committee that there are very considerable losses. The Workers' Party and the Centre have in the suspension proposed that the Government carry out a review and evaluation of the reindeer game traps and, where appropriate, put forward proposals to ensure balanced management and that this should be done at the latest in the revised budget. That proposal does not seem to have a majority. However, to the extent that these figures are taken into account, this is a very serious dimension, which is considerably larger than any other predatory game question we've had in the discussion. I would therefore ask the Council of State to pay attention to this issue and, irrespective of whether or not the proposal is being given a majority today, to consider whether to initiate a review of the situation of these wild game traps, possibly in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, in order to obtain a decision-making basis and an assessment of the extent of the losses, and to assess, where appropriate, what measures are necessary to ensure the economic foundation. Here's the problem that the losses are claimed to be so large that it weakens the economic basis for reindeer operations. This, in turn, has consequences for the vitality of the Sami reindeer culture. That is why it is serious both in terms of business policy and in terms of culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e948	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[Fotation, see page 2506]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e963	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right Group and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that there should be no repetition of the individual statements, and that those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The rapporteur, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, is not here. The President therefore gives the floor to Britt Hildeng.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e972	The Intention Agreement on an inclusive working life has identified three objectives. First, to reduce sick leave by 20 pst., second, to make older workers more at work and third, to employ more disabled or disabled people. As part of the Memorandum of Understanding, employers and employees are encouraged to contract with the public to become an IA enterprise, that is, an enterprise in which employers and employees undertake to live up to the contract of intention. In return, a number of public resources and incentives are made available. The commitment to an inclusive working life also involves technical aids and other measures for the organisation of workplaces. Employers today have a general responsibility for individual organisation for persons with disabilities who have been employed for more than six months. This responsibility is currently limited to a balance of 1/2 G. The other expenditure is the responsibility of the people's fear. The organisations of disabled people point out that employers often hesitate to hire people with disabilities because employers have to charge extra costs in connection with organisation. Therefore, as an incentive for employers to hire disabled workers, the enterprises that have signed IA agreements with the public are completely exempt from this own-payment of 1/2 G. However, it is an objective that, in general, working life should be open and better organised for disabled workers. In view of this, it is reasonable to extend this scheme on a general basis. At the same time, there is agreement within the Committee to abolish the abstinence of holdings of 1⁄2 G of facilities for the organisation of jobs also for non-IA enterprises. The question is, however, from when to apply. The minority has proposed that this should be done in the context of the revised national budget. The revised national budget will be presented as early as one month, and we see that this can be difficult. However, the Labour Party has addressed the letters of the Council of State to the Committee in this regard, where she says: ‘A measure of this nature means an increase in the cost to the country of about 38 million. the Ministry will come back to the question of making this a general arrangement in the 2004 budget.’.» With the unanimous agreement of the Committee that this should be a general scheme and with the Government's promise that this should be included in the 2004 budget, the Labour Party believes that it should be able to be assured that it will be introduced as a general scheme from 2004. The Council of State's letter has thus been an essential premise for the vote of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e986	The representatives of Storting Ola D. Glötvold and Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa from the Centerpartiet propose in this Document No. The 8-proposal that one should abolish the 50% G-proposal of enterprises to assist in the organisation of workplaces. This is a very good and important proposal, insofar as it is serious that you do not want to push out jobseekers and workers who need job organisation. The companies that have chosen to become members of the IA scheme are exempted from this type of ownership. The Progress Party is pleased that the entire Committee is making it visible that they want to do something about this speciality. Unfortunately, it is only to note that the majority of the Committee is unable to make time when they want to introduce the new system, and therefore only pushes this forward towards 2004. In this situation, it seems important that we show action, so that more people get out of work and fewer are excluded from the labour market, because people who are dependent on resources cost the employer 1⁄2 G more than one that is initially not affected by disability. It is also important, as the Progress Party sees, that people in need of organisation should not be able to use in a campaign to get even more companies to join the IA scheme. The promotion party wants to treat Norwegian enterprises in a non-proprietary sense of 1⁄2 G as an aid for the organisation of workplaces. Where reference is made to the fact that it is difficult to find a time, that it will be too short to do so in the context of the revised national budget, the Progress Party disagrees. This is not going to be the big cost, because there is already experience from IA companies in introducing exemptions from these types of schemes. This is a matter that goes on purpose, and not on ability and opportunity. However, for individual workers and jobseekers entering the labour market and in need of organisation, this is very serious. They need this extra help from Stortinget today. Against this background, I refer to the proposal of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1003	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1006	SV is in agreement with the Centre Party and the Progress Party on the minority proposal to which the previous speakers referred. In various contexts it has been seen that people with disabilities are either excluded from the labour market or have serious difficulties in entering the labour market. In different contexts, SV has been concerned that it is necessary to apply for a fine. For example, we have gone against the extensions that have taken place in the employer's period, where the employer has to cover sick pay for approx. the first three weeks, or 16 days. We believe that it could reinforce the exclusion mechanisms, as there may be higher costs of taking in people with disabilities, because they have expected higher sick leave. Similarly, it could be here. If you take in people who need help, and the company is going to cover some of the extra costs, it could be a threshold, especially for companies that may be struggling with poor finances. It is therefore important to organise different instruments to facilitate the labour market for people with disabilities and to use public schemes to cover the additional costs it provides. Of course, it must not exempt enterprises from obligations in relation to follow-up. However, there are other means and opportunities to ensure that individuals are cared for and to cooperate with the enterprise in an appropriate way. An example of this may be the basic meetings organised under the direction of the various social security offices, which can be called management, trust-chosen or others at work that have an impact and influence on the workplace of the individual. We want this half of the basic amount, which is going to be approximately. NOK 25 000, to be covered as soon as possible under government control, and not by individual employers. However, we believe, through the consideration given to this matter in the Committee on Social Affairs, that what the proposers have had as their intention could be achieved in the long term. And because SV has been involved in this matter for a long time, I will commend the initiative that has come from the Central Party in this matter. I think it's a good initiative, which we hope will find its solution if not so long.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1017	The representatives who have spoken before me have had a thorough examination of Document No. The 8th proposal. The Christian People's Party supports the Committee's recommendation. We expect the Ministry to come back with proposals to abolish the 50% G-subsequent share of businesses in the organisation of jobs, even for non-IA-enterprises, once one has seen the experience of the experiment that has just been launched for all IA-enterprises in our country. For these, the responsibilities of the employer for aids are completely waived. This corresponds well with the name of IA companies. The holdings must be inclusive. One has wanted more disabled people to be included in the working life so that they can use their working capacity. Apart from the satisfaction of being able to provide for oneself on its own income, it is to have a working community with other colleagues of great social value. It is not always the large and expensive means to make everyday life easier for people with disabilities. Often it is about small changes, about insight and about willingness to change. From this year on, employers who hesitate to hire people with disabilities because of the cost of technical assistance have been given an incentive to become an IA company. Christian People's Party recommends this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1028	Today, we see an increasing unemployment rate, and that means that it is becoming increasingly difficult to get into permanent employment, not least for people with disabilities, who may be dependent on an organized job and an organized job. We must have an inclusive working life. It says, among other things: the contract of intention from the autumn of 2001. It is also said in the Manneråk Committee's investigation: from user to citizen. This is what we, as proposers, have tried to follow up in order to facilitate and provide better opportunities for disabled workers. That is why we want to cancel the company's half-G share of aid for the organisation of jobs. We are afraid that this half of G that the company may have to finance – when it turns out that employees who have been admitted need it – becomes a barrier to employing disabled workers, not least in competition with non-disabled workers and in the tough labour market that is now seen as a permanent job. We are very pleased that an overall committee supports the proposal that we have tabled. We also know that we welcome the user organisations, and that we hope that this will come into effect as soon as possible. We are aware that, after this proposal was submitted in the spring of 2002, the Government made a proposal in the 2003 State Budget, which suspended this half-G excess for so-called IA companies. However, not all companies are IA companies, even if one wants more companies to join the agreement, cf. the intention agreement for a more inclusive working life. We believe that the companies that have the opportunity to take on disabled workers should do so regardless of whether they are IA companies or not, and we think this is urgent. Not least in relation to the developments we are now seeing in the labour market, we are very concerned that disabled workers will be the ones who lose first in the fight for permanent and properly organised work. It's bad that people who want to continue in or go into paid work, maybe not get a chance to do it, and instead push out and become social welfare recipients, who cost society a lot, much more than 1⁄2 G, as this is the proposal that the big community and the state should finance. As I said, we, as proposers, are pleased that an overall committee has joined the intention of the proposal, but we are concerned that the majority makes a proposal that does not really have a timetable. The representative Hildeng pointed out that the Council of State has said that this will come back to the 2004 budget. I think it is too loosely established in the course of proceedings, and there is no such time in the majority's proposal. I hope that several of those who are behind the majority proposal will be able to make it clear that this is a matter of the 2004 state budget, otherwise I find little reason to have full confidence that the government will come back then. I hope at least that the government parties can confirm that this is a matter for the 2004 State budget. We want, not least because of the situation on the labour market right now, to be able to make use of this from the revised national budget in ours, and that we should be able to get this in place as a state funding for all enterprises, so that there can be a more inclusive working life and employment provision also for disabled people. I agree with the representative Nesvik when he says that there are no questions here about spending a long time investigating something, here are questions about the willingness to set the system in motion as soon as possible, for the benefit of a group that probably feels the exclusion from the labour market stronger than the other groups that are looking for work today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1047	There is broad political consensus that the system of individual organisation of technical facilities at work for people with disabilities who have been employed for more than six months is unfortunate. The aim of the co-operation administration is to reverse the negative development we have had over a long period of time, where more and more disabled people are being put out of work and thus become permanent beneficiaries of social assistance. The reactivation of the disadvantaged and the follow-up to the agreement on a more inclusive working life facilitates this government's policy to enable more disadvantaged and disabled people to return to work. The government's work on a more inclusive working life involves investing in facilities at the workplace as well as other measures for the organisation of workplaces for people with disabilities. The 2003 State budget proposes to stimulate the increased use of labour resources and to bring together the Employment Aid Action Authority at the 2003 Help Centres. Furthermore, it is proposed that the contact persons at work centres should be able to offer undertakings for the use of facilities at the workplace in the light of knowledge of needs and opportunities, and that an assistance centre should be able to be involved in the work of facilities at the workplace. The 2003 State budget also proposes to set up a nationwide experiment where employers’ responsibility for assistance falls entirely within the scope of enterprises that have joined the scheme and participate in the effort to include employment. That means that people's rights will be responsible for the individual organisation of technical aids for all IA companies that need it. As I said, the Government is actively working to improve the conditions for disabled people in companies. The rapporteur sees it as very positive that the Government has agreed to evaluate and assess the pilot scheme to eliminate the costs of 1⁄2 G, to see if the scheme is relevant to facilitating the participation of people with disabilities in the labour market. This in turn means that in the long term the scheme will also be able to cover enterprises that are currently not included in the contract for an inclusive working life, so that, in line with IA companies, they will also be able to organise their workplaces for disabled persons at an exceptional cost to enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1062	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1065	The reason why the undersigned asked for the word was that we have not received an answer to this question. the question put by the representative Hildeng. The rapporteur, Mr Nørve, now said that the system should be evaluated and evaluated, and then see if it should be returned to it in the 2004 state budget. So it has not been said from the government parties that it is necessary to come back and implement this scheme from 2004. Then there is every reason to ask the question: What is behind the remark from the government parties in this case? Are you really behind what it says, that this is a system that is going to be equal to all the jobs, or should you, as the rapporteur says here, evaluate, evaluate and then possibly come back to it? I think we need to get an answer to that. The representative of Lutvold was also involved in his article. We are asking for a response from the government parties: are we coming back to this in the 2004 state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1073	The Labour Party has given its vote very strong opinions that this is a system that must be incorporated into the 2004 State budget. I have to say that I am somewhat surprised at the rapporteur's presentation of the majority position. The proposal for decisions by the majority is as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to abolish the 50% G of holdings’ accruals of aid for the organisation of workplaces, even for enterprises which are not IA companies.’ In the setting, there is nothing to consider. This is in fact a proposal for a decision to introduce it. As I said, the Labour Party has clearly understood the Social Minister's letter to the Committee to do so in the context of the 2004 budget. I hope that the case rapporteur can confirm that what she and the majority are behind is not a proposal for a decision that this is a system to be assessed, but that it is to be decided that a proposal should actually be brought back with a proposal to abolish the company's partiality of 1⁄2 G. That is what is in the recommendation, and I would like the rapporteur to confirm that this is also her understanding of this proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1083	We don't have a line round here, but we still need some clarifications and clarifications. My fears that the letter of the Council of State is not a good enough guarantee are now becoming a reality, I feel. I believe that either the rapporteur on behalf of the government parties or the council, who is in the Chamber, must be able to go up and confirm that it is a matter of making this arrangement effective from the 2004 government budget. If that doesn't happen, I'll make a call for the Workers' Party. We agree on the intention here, and I think that the Workers' Party should move on to the minority's proposals. The intention is the same, there are questions here about phase-in and start-up. I guess we're running politics, and not just fine words. I think that now we need to pursue policies so that we get this adopted as a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1088	I didn't intend to take the floor on this matter, because I saw that initially the majority of the Biggest had the same intention as what I have. I am very concerned about this matter. The obstacles faced by disabled persons are also very much addressed by the Government, both through the Memorandum of Understanding and also with regard to the general policy of disabled persons. The government has announced that we will return to Stortinget with its own big message about the policy of people with disabilities. It comes in the spring of 2003, and in the big news the Government will, among other things, discuss whether the removal of this excess can be an important measure to increase the number of disabled people in work. And then to the question, does the Council of State mean what she writes in a letter to the Stortinget? Of course, the Council of State does. And there I write: ‘A measure of this nature means an increase in the cost to the country of about 38 million. on this basis, the Ministry will return to the question of making it a general scheme in the 2004 budget, once experience of the experiment in the IA activity has also been gained.’ The Government will therefore follow up the decision of the Grand Duchy to: ‘come back with proposals to abolish the 50% G of holdings’ accruals of aids for job creation, including for enterprises which are not IA companies’.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1103	Britt Hildeng has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1106	After the Council of State answers, it might not be necessary to take the word again. I just want to say that I am pleased with the confirmation given by the Council of State that it would come back with a proposal to cancel the company's half-g of its debts, and that this would happen in connection with the 2004 state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1111	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2507]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1127	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1134	The proposers in Document No. 8:155 for 2001–02 raises a difficult question, namely the relationship between professional secrecy and privacy on the one hand, and the obligation to provide warnings to relatives and authorities in relation to drug users on the other. While an overall committee clarifies that the obligation of professional secrecy is established in order to protect and protect the interests of patients, the same duty of professional secrecy must not be exercised in such a way as to prevent rapid intervention where this is necessary both to save lives and to bring patients to treatment. An overall committee also stresses that parents and supervisors also need to have access to information on both treatment options and follow-up after treatment for children and young people. An overall committee supports the intentions of Document No. 8:155, and the Committee makes the following proposals: ‘The Government is asking the Government to review current legislation in order to ensure a better practice than at present in the field of drugs in relation to the relationship between privacy, professional secrecy and alerting obligations.’ A joint committee is pleased that, in a letter to the Committee of 30 January, the Minister for Social Affairs states that, in cooperation with the Minister for Health, the Minister for Social Affairs will assess the practice of professional secrecy in both health and social legislation, in particular against children and youth drug problems. For its part, the rapporteur would look forward to the fact that, as from 1 January 2004, the State assumes responsibility for the health care of drug users, and it is of particular importance that, on the one hand, the obligation of professional secrecy be respected in order to protect patients, but, on the other hand, that, by means of regulations, one can be accepted for an alert service which also takes care of patients’ interests from a treatment point of view. I expect the Minister of Social Affairs to return to the issue of professional secrecy, privacy and alerting when Rusreform II is available to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1152	The proposers include in their Document No. Eight proposals raise a very topical issue in social and health services. This has been the case in the field of drugs, especially among children and young people, and is an increasingly common example of the clear need to resolve the issue of professional secrecy. The Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health have already made a joint proposal to appoint a legislative committee to better harmonise municipal health and social legislation. In her letter to the Social Committee, the Minister for Social Affairs points out that she, in cooperation with the Minister for Health, will propose that the selection should also look at the professional secrecy rules of the Health and Social Services Act. Unfortunately, we all too often experience that the practice of today's legislation contributes to creating unfortunate barriers between the various public authorities, as well as between public and private bodies. We see that the practice of professional secrecy often leads to unfortunate situations for more and more young people who have come into contact with, among other things. the rest of the environment. A person with drug problems is very often in need of help in both psychiatry, child protection, school and not least follow-up with a good family network. It is therefore important that information is also available to parents and supervisors, both in terms of treatment options and follow-up after treatment. It is also very important to clarify the duty of health professionals to alert children’s protection when parents have drug problems or mental problems that may involve the need for assistance and follow-up in relation to children. A review of the law, as referred to by the Minister of Social Affairs, is therefore positive, and will show whether the law, as it works today, provides an adequate basis for cooperation between health and social workers in the provision of complex services and what changes may need to be made. It is important that professional secrecy no longer function in such a way that it is practised in a way that prevents rapid intervention where necessary, both to save lives and to get the patient into a well-suited course of treatment at the earliest possible time, and not least for follow-up after treatment. At the same time, it is important to clarify that the objective of professional secrecy under social and health law is to protect the integrity of the user and to ensure the trust between patients and social and health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1165	The proposal contained in this document addresses the relationship between privacy, the obligation to provide services and the obligation to provide warnings. Both the department and a joint committee agree that this is an important area. This involves different laws, different practices and different understanding of laws. It is important in such assessments to focus on the fact that all laws and regulations should have the patient, the user, their best intention. Laws and regulations are not available to create dense bulkheads between sectors by e.g. health and social services, not in relation to the relatives. In addition to health and social affairs, I want to point to the school as a very important player. The ball is the place where all children and all young people meet, and it is one of the most important venues for both children, youth and parents. It's often through the school one discovers that not everything is as it should be. It is when there is a trusting and open cooperation between social offices, health centres, schools and homes, that one has the greatest chance of being closed. The obligation to provide services has been used in a positive way, but it may seem very destructive if it is misused for example. like a ride in a power struggle. A joint committee and two departments have agreed that it will be useful to review the points made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1174	As the rapporteur on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I must say that I am pleased that an overall committee is in agreement with the intention of this proposal. We will stress – which also starts with an overall committee in the setting – the importance of respect for and respect for professional secrecy in a way that has legitimacy and credibility. But it is clear that the same obligation of professional secrecy creates major problems, not least for parties affected by different laws. Teachers, health professionals, police and others working with young people often face difficult balances in the relationship between privacy, professional secrecy and alerting. That's what we want to get ready, especially when it comes to care within the drug field. We're glad the committee says the government has to look at this. It is important that a person, among other things: cooperate between health and social affairs. As is also apparent from the Social Minister's letter of 30 January, there is such a dialogue between the Minister for Health and the Minister for Social Affairs, but there are several disciplines and departments affected by this. I hope we get a broad assessment of how to soften this law so that you can keep the obligation of professional secrecy as a legitimate system and at the same time get help in the right way. The agreement to be released from the obligation of professional secrecy may, in specific cases, lead to the launching of measures to rescue individuals by alerting parents and other establishments, so that persons in a very dangerous situation can be rescued and helped. This applies to both young people who are in an early stage of drug abuse — in order to avert a so-called drug career — and to young people who have been treated and who are on their way out of a treatment provision, so that they can take action in a cross-sectoral and family-based manner to ensure that the network and interventions are adequate. There are also various examples of, for example: this with different handling of individual items in the case of persons under or above 18 years of age is problematic. As proposers, we believe that this also needs to be clarified, and hope that it will be taken into account when we look at the whole of the law. This applies, inter alia, to: health professionals’ law, social law, child law, training law, police law and what can be networking and devices to prevent a non-trafficking. It is very important that a user is involved in this, which allows users with complex problems to be involved in and consent to the necessary exchange of information withholding information. I hope the government here will come back with a matter relatively quickly, for this is urgent. Many are concerned about this situation. Several of us in this room have been invited to debate meetings and exchanges of views on this. I know that one in the user groups, auxiliaries, various non-profit institutions and associations is also worried about this and wants one to get a clarification, so that one can set in motion a cross-sectoral and wide-ranging effort to save people from drug abuse at the right time and in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1183	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1186	I would like to express my delight in the support of the Centre's Document No. Proposals for a better practice in the relationship between privacy and alerting obligations in the field of drugs. Then I will commend the case spokesman and the committee's leader as well as several representatives who have made contributions here, for positive and constructive input. I would like to make some comments about being a parent and losing a child or a youth because of drug abuse. After the drug abuse has claimed even a young victim, I think there are many, very many, desperate perpetrators and parents who ask themselves the question: am there things I as a mother or as a father could have done differently? Could the tragedy be prevented if I had only known? It's bad for a mother or a father to live with the uncertainty that they might have helped if only the information had been there. Desperate parents do not understand for good reason that they have not been informed about the situation, have not been informed about treatment provision or any other relevant information from the responsible and expert before the tragedy is a fact. It's clear that, for example, teachers, health professionals, police and others working with young people are faced with difficult balances in the relationship between privacy, obliging and alerting. But the important thing here is to make sure that the obligations do not prevent the exchange of information that can help prevent drug addicts from being prevented. I would particularly like to stress the importance of parents who want to set up and contribute to the benefit of their young people, not experiencing the burden of burden as an obstacle and as a countermeasure to help and support children and young people. It is very positive that a joint committee is in favour of a review of the law in order to improve the practice between these difficult fields. And now when we get this back, this could be a step in the right direction that can help prevent future potential drug careers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1199	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2507]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1214	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1221	The proposers, Karin Andersen and Sigbjørn Molvik, point out that there are different deductions made in social security benefits when a person comes to an institution for various reasons, such as somatic hospitals, psychiatric institutions or municipal hospitals. When this happens in families with care responsibilities, the family’s economy may be severely weakened, with one of those responsible for care going to institutions. The family is still in the situation that it has fixed costs that are the same after one of the carers has arrived at an institution, such as electricity, telephone, car service, etc. In some cases, in fact, it may be that when a person in the family comes to an institution, spending is getting higher. The rules are today such that there is some deduction from the residence payments for residence at an institution if dependants who are admitted have children under 18 years of age, while no deduction is made for children between 18 and 21 years of age. On the other hand, if one of the parents dies, children up to 21 years of age receive a survivor’s pension. This shows that there are differences in our law. One also wants to get more equality between state and municipal institutions in terms of self-payment for family dependants. Such legislation is designed, self-payment for residence in an institution is an unreasonable burden in very many cases and is in addition to mental stress that is often associated with a family member who has become ill and needs to stay in an institution. An overall committee agrees with what is stated by the proposers, and also points out that in the letter of the Social Minister of 31 January this year she shows that there are some unforeseeable issues that arise, among other things. because of discretionary judgements regarding the own-payment of an institution. An overall committee therefore asks the Government to propose amendments to the rules on self-payment for residence in an institution for dependants, in the context of the presentation announced in respect of changes in the payment schemes, in order to ensure that the dependants of the family do not suffer as a result of own-payments for the maintenance of the institution. With that, I refer you to the proposal for a decision which an overall committee is promoting here, that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1236	In the last year, the size of the population has focused heavily on poverty reduction. It seems obvious that long-term illness not only brings suffering but often also financial problems. This will be further reinforced if he/she also needs permanent or temporary residence in an institution, be it in somatic hospitals, psychiatric institutions or municipal hospitals. To varying degrees, the social security benefits of the resident are currently provided as a component to cover the cost of the stay. When this happens, the family economy of the individual may be severely weakened, and especially vulnerable families with children may become vulnerable when the caregiver needs longer accommodation. Through the work on poverty reduction, a strong focus has been placed on how children are affected by parental disease and, therefore, on the importance of increasing the supplement to children. In this context, it is important not to weaken the general economy of institutional residents responsible for child care. And it is right to say that the way today's legislation is designed, self-payment for residence in an institution is often an unreasonable burden on families with care responsibilities, a burden that comes in addition to the other burdens that sickness and housing bring. There is therefore a great deal of consensus in the Committee when it comes at least to the intentions of the proposal. But often it can be a piece from intention to reality. When the Committee endorses the intentions of the proposal and at the same time chooses to attach it to the protocol, it is also related to the fact that, in a letter to the Committee, the Minister of Social Affairs and Employment refers to the fact that the Government will present a report on quality and simpler arrangements in the care sector, including: proposals for changes to the user payment schemes and that she has announced that protection rules for dependants will be assessed in that context. The Workers' Party considers that the Government's announced assessment will be based on the unanimous wish of the Committee to introduce such safeguards.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1247	In the context of the notified call for proposals on quality and simpler arrangements in the care sector, the Government will also make proposals for changes to the user payment schemes. The Minister of Social Affairs, in a letter to the Social Committee, has assured that protection rules for dependants will be part of this work. It is usually a burden in itself for a family when a person with child custody needs to move to an institution. It is then important that the legislation and user payment are designed in such a way that it is not impossible or difficult to provide for the children for which they are responsible. To this end, the right supports the inclusion of the proposal in the Protocol, and supports the comment that calls on the Government to propose amendments to ensure that the family's dependability does not suffer as a result of self-payment at the time of the institution's residence, and looks forward to the disclosure of quality and simpler arrangements in the care and care sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1256	I refer you to the rapporteur's posts, and I will join his assessments there. I still feel the need to underline some of the things that are very important for SV. I am the co-rapporteur for this Document No. The 8 proposal was satisfied with the agreement of an overall committee on the intentions of the proposal and the need to clean up both grey zones and unforeseeable conditions. This broad consensus is also reflected in this debate. The main purpose of the SV’s proposal is to ensure that families who end up in a situation where dependants must have temporary or permanent residence in an institution do not suffer financial damage as a result of self-payment for such a stay. There are different rules for state and municipal institutions, as the rapporteur pointed out, in this area today. When the Government now promises that, in the context of the Quality and Simplifying Schemes in the care and care sector, they will assess the protection arrangements for dependants, I would like to stress that a total increase here today says that the family's dependability should not be harmed as a result of self-payment. Therefore, the SV assumes that the Government will follow this up in this big message and in such a way that the rules become clearer, that they have the same consequences for both government and municipal institutions, and that there is less scope for individual assessments that may result in some people still experiencing difficulties in terms of the total family economy. I would also like to point out the discrimination that currently applies where the family provides, in whole or in part, for children between 18 and 21 years of age. In state institutions, self-payment reduction is only valid until the child reaches the age of 18 years, while in municipal institutions a reduction can also be made for children up to 21 years of age under given assumptions. It is also the case, as the Social Minister writes in his letter to the Committee dated 31 January of this year, that it is not uncommon in our days for parents to have full or partial custody of children over 18 years of age. Governments describe this discrimination as a weakness in current legislation. I agree and assume that the Government will come back to the Storting with proposals for changes to these rules. It is difficult enough for families with children who come into the situation that one of the caregivers must have long-term, perhaps permanent, residence at an institution, not least this will apply to the children. Now let's not let these families in the future get a problematic family economy as a result of self-payment to institutions. Let's also let these families go round after a round of rounds between case handlers and offices to get an economy that the family can live on. Therefore, I would strongly urge the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals for liberal and good arrangements for this group. SV will follow closely when the big shot comes, and during the treatment of this memory we will both the Government and the parties here on the Stortinget about what a unanimous big shot says here today: The family's dependability should not be economically damaging as a result of self-payment for institutional stays.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1273	Proposalers address an important issue. If a person in charge of a dependant must have a temporary or permanent residence in an institution, this is a difficult situation in itself. In addition, if the patient is concerned about how the family will cope with the daily costs after self-payment for the institution's accommodation, this will reinforce the problem. The Christian People's Party has long been concerned with popular fear reduction rules in state institutions. We've been busy with the difference between hospitalization in psychiatric and somatic hospitals. There have been considerable improvements here since the increase in the amount of free time, and long-term stay for psychiatric patients was defined from 1 May 2002 as a one-year stay. In the case of reduced benefits for dependants, there is a difference between whether you are in a state or municipal institution. For the first, which is governed by §3-28 of the Law on Social Security, the child benefit falls at the age of 18. The rules governing the remuneration of municipal institutions, which are governed by their own rules, provide for a deduction from the calculation basis if the person in the institution is wholly or partly dependent on children over 18 years of age. This is a discrimination which the Christian People's Party finds unacceptable. It is important that persons in need of medical assistance are placed in institutions on the basis of professional criteria and not on the basis of economic priorities. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Social Minister in his letter to the Committee so strongly expresses the willingness to improve this. This may already change when you look at changes in the user payment schemes, which are to be reviewed in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1284	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5 [[See page 2507]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1300	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes for the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes for each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1307	Strong thighs, bustling back and big puppies are not the happiness of life, although sometimes you can be led to believe it in our body-focused society. It has been raised beyond any doubt that there is an enormous pressure directed at everyone so that we should strive for a reconstructed ideal that the few are born as. Children and young people who are initially at a vulnerable stage, and where the body is undergoing major changes, will be exposed to such pressure. The representatives of Thorkildsen and Holmås have promoted a Document No. Eight proposals containing two proposals. One is to prohibit cosmetic operations on persons under the age of 18 who are not referred to. The second is the prohibition of advertising for cosmetic operations. Before mentioning the legislative proposal, I would like to congratulate the proposers who, by promoting this proposal, have put a very important theme in focus. As far as the 18-year limit is concerned, Norwegian plastic surgery has itself introduced articles of association which say that cosmetic surgery is not to be performed on persons under 18 years of age. Members who break this may be at risk of exclusion. This shows that the industry itself has taken responsibility for setting an ethical age limit. However, it is important in this context to point out that we already have legislation to do this, even if it is not a direct ban. However, in the case of non-reversible cosmetic interventions, the age of health law is 16 years, but the age of authority should be higher. On this basis, an 18-year limit has been applied to consent to such operations. This is, moreover, a stricter regulation than was the case before the entry into force of the Patient Rights Act two years ago. In addition, we have a health care requirement in the Health Care Act, which obliges us to assess what is medically sound. The Minister of Health himself, in a letter to the Social Committee, says that a cosmetic intervention carried out on a patient who is not sufficiently mature would be contrary to the requirement of safety. It is important, however, that the provisions in place are complied with, so as to avoid the fading out of practice. I therefore think it is positive that, in an answer to a question from one of the Committee's members, the Minister of Health has said that he will provide a circular to all those carrying out such operations, so that there is no doubt that the ministry's understanding of the legislation is that the age limit for irreversible cosmetic surgery is 18 years, and that the breach of the previously mentioned requirement of safety could lead to loss of specialist approval and loss of authorisation. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Government Parties and the Progress Party, does not support the proposal for a legislative ban. Although we fully share the concerns of the proposers about developments in this area, we believe that we already have legislation to deal with this. Moreover, a law ban will not solve all problems either. A ban will require new border clearances. In any case, you want an element of discretion, and among those who refer, there will be some that are more liberal than others. As regards the proposal for a ban on advertising for cosmetic surgery, no one in the Committee supports this. A minority ask the Government, through regulations of the Health Care Professional Act, to prohibit certain types of marketing of cosmetic surgery. However, there is a unanimous committee which indicates that there is already a legal basis for the provision of regulations, including the prohibition of certain forms of marketing. The Committee further asks the Ministry of Health to make use of this possibility to lay down rules for the tightening up of aggressive marketing in cosmetic surgery. It is well possible that the regulation requested by a unanimous committee will put into practice a ban on the marketing of certain types of cosmetic surgery. Furthermore, an overall committee has asked that today’s marketing of slimicides should be tightened in order to reduce the slender pressure on the paediatric population. No matter what we decide today, no one can stop a young person from spending the money from the summer job buying larger dolls in another country. We can limit it, but never prevent it from 100 pst. That's why this is finally about what attitudes we grow up to give the growing up generation. That's why every time I see celebrities, whether it's politicians or others, I'm horrified to tell you how successful the last slime cure has been, or hears about mothers drinking slime powder in front of their daughters. Everyone has a responsibility: the school and the leaders of leisure activities, but the greatest responsibility lies with the parents, who have to give the children healthy attitudes and role models, and teach the children to love themselves just as they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1335	The Labour Party believes that it is very unfortunate that young people under the age of 18 are doing cosmetic surgery that is not medically justified. The extent of this is partly due to the massive impact of young people on the follow-up of ideal images created by the marketing of cosmetic interventions. Although cosmetic interventions on persons under the age of 18 are partially regulated by the Patient Rights Act and the Health Personnel Act, I believe that the provisions of the Patient Rights Act must be tightened up and unequivocally clarified that cosmetic surgery on persons under 18 years of age who are not medically justified by referral from a doctor should not occur. It is also speculative and pointless to advertise cosmetic interventions aimed at people under 18 without a medical justification. This should not be allowed and this should therefore be clearly provided for. The government should also consider how to tighten up the marketing of lubricants. Anyone who wants to see it discovers that many young people carry out diets that are very unfortunate and that can end up in a sickly slimming, unfortunately, sometimes fatal consequences. Otherwise, I have noticed that very many specialists in plastic surgery are switching to private practice and to cosmetic surgery. Of course, it is free for individual specialists to choose either public or private activities. The consequence is that many choose to work in an economically lucrative private market. That's often unfortunate. Long waiting time occurs in the hospitals in heavy and important plastic surgery. We're talking here, for example. about children with malformations, large and small facial deformations, lashes and other. Often this requires many repeated operations throughout growth. For adults, there may be reconstructions following cancer operations in e.g.: breast, other parts of the body, after burns, etc. Very many plastic surgery positions are available at our largest hospital, while the doctors work in private clinics. This will give you a long wait list and a long wait for the necessary operations. It gives us a weakened professional environment. I believe that the department has a great responsibility for unfortunate developments if it approves private clinics as hospitals in this area. Giving general practitioners the opportunity to refer patients directly to private specialists can accelerate such unfortunate developments in this area that we are talking about today. It can happen quickly that unnecessary cosmetic interventions are carried out in a situation where the private doctor makes money by paying the public for such interventions. This results in poor use of public health crowns by carrying out entirely unnecessary cosmetic operations. This should preferably be stopped at a time when health resources are scarce, and efforts should be directed towards treating patients with clear needs for rapid and good treatment. I then take up the suggestions from the minority. The Workers' Party also supports the proposed proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1354	The representative of Asmund Kristoffersen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1357	I understand the intentions of the proposers in the proposal, but a ban on the marketing of cosmetic surgery and the introduction of the 18-year age limit for treatment do not consider the Progress Party to be the way to go. Like the majority in the vote, the Progress Party also refers to the regulation of this area in the Patient Rights Act and the Health Care Act, which is based on consent and soundness. The regulation of this area in the Patient Rights Act and the Health Personnel Act places considerable restrictions on non-reversible plastic surgery for children and young people. I also point out that the professionals themselves, namely Norwegian plastic surgical association in their statutes, have regulated the use of cosmetic surgery for children under 18. As far as I know, there are few, if any, cases where plastic surgical treatment has been performed on children for purely cosmetic reasons. So there has been no problem, and that is probably also why the department has not used the authority they have to give regulations in this way. I also refer to letters from the Minister of Health to the Committee dated 29 January, where the Minister of Health indicates that the cosmetic operations carried out are scientifically sound and medically justified. I agree with the proposers that there is an unculture in the youth environments with a strong focus on the body, but in my opinion this unculture cannot be changed by regulation. We already have more than enough guardian laws in this country, and some such laws are just about the corner as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1370	SV is, like the rest of the Stortinget, concerned about parts of the marketing in the field of cosmetic surgery, which we perceive to be partly very aggressive. In particular, we are strongly critical of the impact this marketing has on children and young people who are under a very strong pressure in terms of appearance and body fixation. This marketing also leads many young people to want cosmetic surgery that cannot be said to be medically justified. This is also the background to the fact that the Norwegian Plastic Surgery Association industry has introduced articles of association which say that cosmetic surgery of irreversible nature should not be carried out on persons under 18 years of age. This we see in SV is good. It shows that industry is at least part of it aware that this is a problem and is trying to take responsibility for getting good practice. But unfortunately, parts of this industry do not act as responsible as Norwegian Plastic Surgery Association wants. That's why it's SV's view that the constraints the marine industry is trying to impose, are not enough to get what I would call an unethical practice, to life. Therefore, public and health services need to take greater responsibility both for the rules to be applied and for the enforcement of those rules. The Patient Rights Act provides that the age of health law is 16 years. This age limit has also been exempted if the nature of the measure is such that a different age of authority applies. The Minister for Health, by letter to the Committee dated 29 January of this year, said: ‘On this basis, an 18-year-old age limit has been established in order to be able to consent to non-reversible cosmetic interventions.’ However, practices show that such interventions are carried out on many persons in Norway who are under 18 years of age. Therefore, SV wants this tightened up. It can be done in several ways. One could suggest a change in the law, i.e. to introduce a prohibition order. That is also what is the starting point of Document No. The 8th proposal from the two representatives of the SV. Through the committee treatment, we have a clear understanding that both the Minister of Health and the Government parties agree that there is an unfortunate and worrying practice in this area and that something should be done. SV therefore proposes in the setting, together with the Workers' Party and the Centre, to draw up regulations on the patient rights law, which clearly state that no cosmetic surgery is to be performed on persons under 18 years of age, unless clearly medically justified by a referral from a doctor. It is a little difficult to get the reasons why the government parties cannot support such a proposal, as long as you say that you agree with the need. I refer to the following majority comment, which also includes the government parties: ‘The majority therefore believe that the problem needs to be given much greater public and political attention and requires effective and clear action.’ I also point out that the President of the Legeforningen, Hans Kristian Bakke, states to our country on 22 February this year that he is in favour of such a ban as SV proposes. When it comes to advertising, it's a similar problem. In fact, an overall committee believes that it is necessary to draw up a regulation that tightens up an increasingly aggressive advertising specifically aimed at children and young people. But the majority will not ask the Government to implement what action everyone seems to agree on. Then I am pleased that the Minister of Health in his letters to the Committee has gone a long way in promising that he will implement measures that aim to tighten up this practice in both advertising and the conduct of cosmetic operations. But SV believes that Stortinget should have given a clear marshalling earth to the Council of State already today. It is also gratifying that an overall committee wants health authorities to be more involved in the problem of slimming pressures and the marketing of various types of slimming agents and cures. I have also registered that the Minister of Health is concerned about this. So to the quality of the cosmetic surgery. Exemptions are currently granted for cosmetic surgery without special training in this field. It's a lot of money to make in this part of the healthcare system, as Kristoffersen was in, not least in the private market. We also see that private clinics are losing public health for competences, so that waiting lists for the necessary cosmetic surgery are increasing. The minority therefore requests that the dispensation practices be tightened and that the competence requirements be strengthened. I refer to the proposals that Asmund Kristoffersen made, and it is therefore still possible for the government parties to vote in favour of the proposals they agree on. Then there is also a proposal from the representative Heikki Holmås, who is distributed in the Chamber, and it will be explained and justified by the representative in a later article in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1402	The Christian People's Party will praise the SV proposers to focus on a theme that concerns many of us. The National Government of the Christian People's Party sent out a press release last November entitled "No to growth on the premises of advertising". It is beyond doubt that children and young people are increasingly under enormous commercial pressure. Sex-fixed fashion steals childhood from girls who want to be older than they are. The fear of feeling outside is enough of the reason they follow the fashion and slender press. The ideals promoted through advertising and the media do something about self-respect and the development of their own identity. It's very serious when young people want cosmetic interventions before they grow up, just to live up to today's ideals of beauty. A study by the World Health Organisation shows that every four Norwegian girls in 10 years are slimming down or wanting to do so. For girls over 15 years of age, this applies to more than half. The Christian People's Party is concerned about this development and shares the intentions of the proposers. When we vote for the proposal to be annexed to the Minutes, we do so first and foremost because we are satisfied that the Minister of Health, in his two letters to the Committee, clearly indicates that this should be followed up. The Health Minister will intensify the supervision of the Health Personnel Act. It states that any healthcare provided must be sound. To perform chest surgery on a girl who is not yet fully developed, I consider to be irresponsible both medically and ethically, and should not be performed. In the Patient Rights Act, the age of authority is 16 years. In the case of non-reversible cosmetic surgery, consent from parents or nurses is necessary if you are under 18 years of age. The Minister of Health will clarify this in a circular to all those authorised to perform plastic surgery. In addition, the circular will focus on the ethical responsibility of the individual physician and the importance of breaches of the provisions. The Christian People's Party is pleased that Norwegian Plastic Surgery Association takes responsibility and on its own initiative has introduced statutes that prohibit interference with persons under 18 years of age. We also support the monitoring initiated by the Minister of Health to know more about the extent of such interventions. When the survey is submitted to Stortinget, the Christian People's Party is open to change measures if the survey so warrants. A unanimous committee calls on the Ministry to make use of the possibility of creating a regulation regulating the aggressive marketing of cosmetic surgery. The Committee also agrees that today’s rules on the placing on the market of slimicides such as pills, powders, cures and others should be considered in order to reduce the lean pressure on children and young people. If we are to succeed, health care, school and parents must cooperate, so that a prisoner picks up the symptoms at an early stage. A school package called ‘About body, culture and communication’ has been sent to all schools and health centres and can be an important tool in this context. Wake-up secondary school in West Agder is a good example. A month ago, they arranged a whole-day lifestyle course just to counteract slender hysteria and body fixation. The focus was on joy at activity and a varied and healthy diet. Debate is important. Theme days are important. Regulations are important. But the most important thing is that children and young people get confirmed that they are good just as they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1430	We are all concerned about the pressure young people are subjected to in terms of body fixation and appearance. We see that through a very rough and conscious marketing, clear signals are sent to children and young people about how the body should be ideal, and what kind of opportunities the industry has to approach this ideal. We also see that many young people react to this in a very unfortunate way. The representative Woie Duesund also mentioned numbers in the case of young girls, that 25 pst. of girls under 10 years of age want to slim down, and of girls over 15 years of age are actually half set to slim down. This is very worrying. We also see that the same body-fixed culture is beginning to become strongly applicable among young boys. We believe that some clear boundaries should be set for some of the developments that we see now, and that an overall committee believes are unfortunate. Among other things, there should be a clear limit of 18 years in the case of cosmetic operations, where one is not referred to clear medical criteria. We have registered that medical teams in this area have themselves drawn up statutes that say that cosmetic surgery should not be carried out on persons under 18 years of age, but we believe that it is not just the industry that is to control this. Public authorities also need to set this limit and take responsibility for the fact that this does not develop further. In cosmetic surgery and in the medical profession today, a large store is developing in this field. We see that more and more private clinic companies appear. This activity includes, inter alia: as a result of the loss of public health for professional personnel. That is why we believe that the Department, the Minister of Health and the Government should take a clearer responsibility and use the authority they have to set the 18-year-old limit here. When it comes to advertising, it's one of the same things. Section 13 of the Health Personnel Act and the Marketing Act also provide for the possibility to regulate this. But then we have to use the opportunity, and that is what the minority in the Social Committee is trying to point out: we need clear regulations, so that one gets a ban on certain types of marketing of cosmetic surgery. We also believe that stricter requirements should be imposed on the competence of those performing cosmetic surgery. Today we see that there are some people who are not fully professionally trained, who also run this business. The Minister for Health himself pointed out in a letter to the Social Committee that he was concerned, among other things, about: the development of body-fixed culture and the development of marketing, including: compare this with advertising for slimming agents and slimming cures. In the Committee's minority, we believe it is right for the Government to consider a ban on advertising for some of these means and cures, so that we can get clear border crossings. I hope, as several other speakers have pointed out, that it might be possible to turn the vote back here later today. I think it is something remarkable that, among other things. The Christian People's Party has not supported the minority in this matter. We know about the pressure and commitment of the Christian People's Party youth in this debate, and I also refer to a written question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, answered correctly by the Minister for Health, from June 2001. It is from the head of the Christian People's Party, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, and she asks the Minister the following questions: ‘Christian People's Party sees the need to introduce the 18-year age limit for cosmetic interventions that do not have medical grounds, and we see a need for a ban on advertising for plastic operations. And the reason is: ‘20 billion is used each year for commercial influence in Norway. More and more of these billions are being used to influence children and young people. We see a clear tendency for children’s and young people’s self - image to be negatively influenced in their view of body, happiness and quality of life. In addition to parents and school having to assume their responsibilities, the Christian People's Party believes that advertisers and the advertising industry need to focus a more critical search light on themselves." Here we have the whole thing in a nutshell, and I think we should have got a majority for what lies here as minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1462	This debate shows that the Committee as a whole is in agreement on this matter. All share the concern for recent years’ development with an increased focus on appearance and willingness to perform cosmetic operations that aim only to decorate an otherwise healthy and normal appearance. As Minister of Health, I find it very worrying when the cosmetic operations are irreversible and are carried out on many young people who are not yet fully developed and who cannot overlook the consequences of such interventions. I am also happy to be supported by my concerns about all the focus it is on slimming agents and body ideals in today's society. The result, as I have mentioned, is that more and more weight gain and an increasing proportion of young people suffer from eating disorders. It is a serious health problem for the individual, and it is a serious social problem. We have legal provisions that regulate both advertising for cosmetic surgery and the age limit for such operations. Section 13 of the Health Care Act requires the marketing of healthcare to be sound, sober and factual. This applies both to health professionals and to healthcare providers. The purpose of this provision is to prevent healthcare professionals from marketing their health services unilaterally in order to achieve increased demand. Paragraphs 4 to 3 of the Patient Rights Act set the age of health law to 16 years. That is, a 16-year-old is initially entitled to make decisions in relation to his or her own health. However, the law has narrowed the 16-year limit, if what the law calls ‘the nature of the measure’ suggests a different age of authority. The preparatory work of the law shows that for cosmetic operations of a non-reversible nature, there should be a higher age of authority. An 18-year limit for consenting to cosmetic interventions — of a non-reversible nature — has therefore been established. Any request for cosmetic intervention must also be assessed on the basis of the requirement of professionally sound health care provided for in the Health Care Act § 4. All health professionals are obliged to carry out their work in accordance with this requirement, and individual health professionals must therefore carry out assessments of the adequacy of cosmetic intervention in relation to age, degree of development, irreversibleity of intervention, etc. In order to counteract the negative development that has occurred, I have said in my correspondence with the Committee that I want to draw up a circular in which the Department's interpretation of both the Health Care Act's provisions on marketing and the Patient Rights Act's provision on the age of health law is clearly marked. In the circular, I would also like to highlight the rules of the Health Care Professional Act that give the State Health Care Authority the authority to respond with, for example, a warning or loss of authorisation if a healthcare professional violates the law. The circular will be sent to all approved doctors in plastic surgery, to current government agencies, and it will be informed of it in the journal of the Norwegian Medical Association and Dagens Medisin. The circular form will be out of print before summer. I have also asked the State Health Authority to step up the supervision of healthcare professionals and businesses performing cosmetic operations. I will, in cooperation with the relevant departments, carry out a survey of the extent of cosmetic operations on persons under 18 years of age, including parental consent to such operations, and the medical assessments that have led to the operations. I will appropriately return to Stortinget with the results of this survey. If the mapping involves changes in the rules, it should not be on me. I have also noted the Committee's request to consider using the possibility of designing a regulation to tighten up the marketing of cosmetic surgery and consider whether current rules on the marketing of lubricants should be tightened up. I will follow that up and look into it in the light of information I will obtain from the State Health Authority, the Directorate for Social Affairs and Health, the Medical Council, the Norwegian Plastic Surgery Association and other specialist bodies with knowledge of these matters. In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to draw on the efforts of plastic surgery specialists in that part of aesthetic plastic surgery where patients are treated, for example. with congenital malformations, injuries from road accidents and fires, reconstructions after operations, etc. This effort is invaluable to those concerned, which we must not forget in the middle of our concern for the developments that have taken place in recent years in parts of this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1483	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1487	There are no limits to what people are willing to do to make money. When we promote this case, it's because there's someone who makes money here in society to make people unhappy and dissatisfied with themselves. When VG writes that every third woman is dissatisfied with herself and has problems with her self-image because of the “reclamed” that is, when 15-year-old girls in Denmark put silicone implants in their breasts, when a young boy in Norway who is anorexic gets obesity itself, it says something about a business that makes money to make people dissatisfied with themselves, which we have to look very seriously at. There's no doubt that the courage and the cultural pressure that lies in society today, that comes from an advertising that works, does something about people's self-image and what kind of actions people do. When e.g. a plastic surgical clinic for which Nobel Clinic is aggressively marketing – and in my opinion and that of the Medical Association, advertising shall be sound, sober and factual, which the minister also referred to – and has advertising of the type ‘Time sets its tracks’, which very clearly gives the impression to adults, completely normal people who have been given traces of normal ageing and changes that happen to the body, that this is something ugly that people have reason to be dissatisfied with themselves, says it says that these people have already gone far beyond the line in relation to the Health Care Act § 13. That is why we have tabled a proposal No. 2, and I will address that proposal, where we ask the Government to look in particular at the means of health supervision. There is no doubt that today they should have had the opportunity to intervene with some of these businesses. That's exactly what the President of the Medical Association says in our country. He is more positive than the Minister of Health is to an 18-year-old limit for cosmetic surgery, but believes very clearly that today's legislation is not being used actively enough, and he does not believe that the Health Authority has good enough tools to turn down the marketing that is taking place. So I would like to thank Beate Heieren Hundhammer, who is the rapporteur on the matter, for the commitment, and for being able to assemble the committee behind this position. There are two things we have achieved in promoting this proposal. One is to get a good debate on these things, and the other is probably concrete results that we eagerly await when the Minister comes back with his circulars and his regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1496	The representative Heikki Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1499	Of course, it's been focused most on the surgery on this matter. I just want to say that there is no threshold in slimming. We know that youth slumbers into death. It's not an acutely formulated way of speaking, it's a terrible truth. Children and young people who lose weight without supervision or in cooperation with their doctor are an increasing problem. Therefore, the Workers' Party wants the Government to consider such a strong instrument as the prohibition of slimming agents and slimming cures. We are about to deal with the public health report on a healthier Norway. The proposal of the minority in this case would make a significant contribution to a healthier Norway. That would show that we mean something by starting in the right direction. That would prove that we could help create some attitudes. Helping children and young people to get a normal and healthy view of their own bodies, with physical activity and a healthier diet, are better solutions than surgery and dieting. That is why we are very disappointed that the Christian People's Party will not take part in this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1506	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2507]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1522	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1529	The proposer asks the Government to assess whether the current intake criteria should be changed so that the individual drug addict in interaction with treatment and the regional treatment centres can freely choose the treatment method according to individual overall assessment. The proposer further refers to the high overdose rates in Norway, that the professional authorities should consider extending the treatment criteria and that the current intake criteria for medically assisted treatment are too strict and should therefore be reconsidered. Historically, Norway has taken a restrictive view of the use of methadone and other drugs in the treatment of drug users. Nevertheless, the development of the medically assisted rehabilitation services for drug users in Norway has taken place at a very high rate in recent years. Since 1998, we have had a nationwide programme for medically assisted rehabilitation in Norway. Subutex and other medicinal products in addition to methadone are currently used in the framework of medically assisted rehabilitation, where about 2 500 users will participate during the current year. It is estimated to be 20 pst. Among opiate-dependent drug users in Norway, and this means that in Norway, we are at the level of many other European countries. So you can ask yourself, is it positive or negative? The government is asking for an extension of the criteria for treatment in terms of both the medicinal products that can be used, the age limit and the drug users who can be offered medically assisted treatment. There is good reason to stress that drug-assisted methadone and Subutex rehabilitation initially involves lifelong treatment with a highly addictive opioid. The government is therefore quite clear that treatment with methadone or Subutex only makes sense when it is introduced as part of a comprehensive treatment. The primary objective must be to help the individual drug addict return to a normal life without the use of methadone or other similar drugs. Experience shows that liberalised use of methadone and Subutex, provided without other simultaneous follow-up measures, is very unfortunate and can lead to an increased drug problem for individuals, in the worst cases with greater overall drug use and more overdose deaths as a consequence. According to Focus, the statistics show that nine out of ten people on methadone are still on drugs, and that the reason is that the follow-up service is unfortunately not working well enough. The government has a clear view that in order to succeed in treating drug users, treatment must aim to reduce, or at any rate stop, the drug abuse by the individual and, over time, to enable the addict to live as much life as possible independently of drug abuse. With regard to proposals for the liberalisation of the age limit, it is important to point out that current legislation allows for a derogation from the 25-year age limit for medically assisted rehabilitation if an overall assessment so warrants. There is currently an experiment under the direction of the University of Oslo with the prescription of Subutex to drug addicts under the age of 25. The government disagrees with the proposer that the use of methadone and Subutex should be further liberalised and will await the evaluation of the experiment at the University of Oslo before considering any changes to the guidelines for the medically assisted rehabilitation of drug users. During the 2002 and 2003 financial years, the government has strengthened the low-threshold supply of the heaviest drug addicts. In addition, exceptional grants have been granted for medically assisted rehabilitation. The government will continue its efforts to increase the commitment to action for individual abusers with a view to rehabilitation and return to a different and better life situation. These include: on social follow-up in relation to the free environment, and support and provision of work and housing. In this context, it is important that these actions and the possibilities for local authorities to implement them be given greater emphasis in future on the planning and implementation of drug policies. The right supports the Committee's recommendation that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1552	By means of Document No. The 8-proposal that I have promoted, I feel that the Stortinget will now have the opportunity to hold an important debate on medically assisted rehabilitation. What was the basis for my promoting the proposal was a television program with a girl from Bergen. There was a girl who had been addicted to opiates for a long time. She applied for inclusion in a medically assisted rehabilitation programme. She appeared with great power and stressed in the TV program in relation to her needs. The conclusion of the TV program was that she could not participate in the program because she was under 25. Now, of course, it's not certain that all such TV shows show the whole truth, and there could be other reasons than the age limit that the professional team would not take her in. But on the basis of that TV programme, I thought it was right to have a debate on whether an absolute age limit is the right criterion for whether or not to be eligible for medically assisted rehabilitation. That is, of course, how I am aware that today's legislation also opens up the possibility of providing medically assisted rehabilitation to people under 25 years of age in the context of specific assessments. But the majority of the committee, the members of the Right, SV, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, say: ‘However, the practice of the 25-year rule may appear to be very rigorous.’ You're equidistant, if that's the way it's practiced very rigorously. In the coming period, we will have to have a fundamental debate on whether to include in a programme for medically assisted rehabilitation will be based on political criteria or on professional assessments. It is likely soon that the only type of medical treatment that has clear political criteria for whether or not to be eligible for treatment is in relation to the use of medicines such as Subutex and methadone. But in my opinion, there is more and more talk that the professional community is now getting so much experience with this that it must be up to the doctor and the patient and the professional team to assess whether the use of medically assisted rehabilitation is reasonable or not. It is difficult to imagine that we in Stortinget should as well have a competence and in a way say very clearly whether it is professionally reasonable to initiate this type of treatment or not. That is why I am pleased with what the majority is saying, namely that we need a broader evaluation basis before we may be willing to make concrete changes to the practices and legislation we have today. I think the case rapporteur was strongly opposed in his statement, because what I read in the vote is that there are a lot of evaluations going on. There is a government busy getting completed. Once those evaluations have been completed, the Stortinget shall be brought to its attention with an assessment of whether there is a basis for amending the legislation or not. I feel that it is primarily what the Council of State answers in its letter, not on death and life that the Council of State is opposed to any change if the evaluations show that there can be a basis for making adjustments.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1568	Let me first make a suggestion to the case rapporteur to document the claim that nine out of ten who are involved in methadone programmes have side abuse. The positive proposal made by Mr Bjarne Håkon Hanssen on the liberalisation of the admission criteria for medically assisted rehabilitation has received a rather meagre treatment result in the Committee. However, this may be due to the fact that the Committee is waiting for the notification of drug use II, which includes, inter alia, the following: The criteria for drug treatment become one of the themes. There is evidence of a lack of history when the majority claim that the medically assisted rehabilitation of drug addicts in Norway has taken place at a high rate. In fact, Norway has been located at least ten years after our neighbouring country and countries elsewhere in Western Europe in terms of medically assisted rehabilitation of drug addicts. We first started in Norway with methadone treatment in 1994, and then to a very small extent, with only 50 patients. Today we are undergoing medical treatment approx. 1 600 on methadone or Subutex, while the need would be between 4000 and 5000. No, the rate of such treatment has not been high — rather on the contrary. It has been low, and it has taken a very long time to get to where we are today. In my opinion, that is in no way far enough. The intake criteria for admission to medically assisted treatment are still the same as they were initially, but with some nuance to have an overall assessment of the patient. This is done in very few cases. But it has actually been there all along, and practice shows that there are very few under 25 years of age who are being treated with methadone. This is contrary to all medical treatment and knowledge, where treatment should preferably be administered as quickly as possible, regardless of any suffering. I would already like to make it clear at this stage that the Progress Party wants a uniform state responsibility for treatment and rehabilitation, funded by the State through healthcare companies. What can be left in municipalities, if any, is prevention, care and after-care. In the case of sole responsibility by undertakings, regional methadone teams should be wound up, and the medication of patients should be left to the discretion of the individual, as the scheme is now in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1581	My good colleague Sigbjørn Molvik and I were down on Plata in the autumn of 2002 and talked to a good deal of drug addicts at the kiosk there. It was really relatively easy to talk to them. We saw that some were on the back of the kiosk, and some were putting injections while we were there. Then we started to discuss with them what had to be done in the treatment of drug users in order to get a better offer. We also asked questions about the use of buprenorphine and methadone. One of the things that I thought was surprising – it really shouldn't be, but it surprised me anyway – was how different the answers we got. While some people were very sceptical about the use of methadone or buprenorphine, others said it could have something to do with it. We got a wide range of views related to what was an important approach to the treatment of drug users, and, I would say, many reflected considerations where they also began to express disagreement. But in some fields we saw that the views were exactly the same. One of the things that also surprised me was how many people said they had initially been motivated to treat, but because of the lack of treatment, they walked in the same environments and did not get out. Some had received treatment in Denmark and returned — the after-care facility was missing, and they slipped back into the environment of which they had been part. What was very strongly emphasised was that there is too long waiting time for treatment for those who are motivated to receive treatment, and there are too heavy arrangements for treatment. The responsibility of social services with guarantee schemes that first need to be in place is so poor in relation to the individual drug addict that one misses the fact that treatment is being followed. The same applies to the rear-view protection. There were very clear signals that if you're going to be able to stay free, you're going to have to have an after-career that goes on a new social network, where you get out of the environment you're in, and where you're going to be offered some kind of follow-up or a job offer, plus that housing plays a very central role. What I'm happy about is that what the majority sketches is a good part of just this. The majority, of which SV is part, emphasise the importance of social follow-up, association with drug-free settings and support and provision of work and housing. So you could say that as there's a note there, there's no action in itself. But it is therefore a great responsibility that the Government – and the government parties are part of the majority here – have just to put into practice the measures, create resources and follow them up. I have to say, for my part, that I am surprised at how strongly both the Labour Party and the Advance Party repeatedly emphasize the use of methadone and buprenorphine as an instrument. Although they add that there are other instruments that can be important, one often gets the impression that the solution should be in the prescription of these preparations. My experience among colleagues is that skepticism is great to make it very easily accessible both in terms of methadone and buprenorphine. When the Committee visited the Institute for Public Health, we also heard about the experience gained with the placing on the market of methadone in the drug settings, where it is recorded that methadone is one of the substances present in overdose deaths. That doesn't mean that you can't use it, but that means you have to have some kind of restrictions that can't be of such a kind that you just say that the scientific community alone determines it. In contrast to what Bjarne Håkon Hanssen says, I disagree with the fact that, in general, there should be no political views on what kind of premises medicinal products should be used. That is why we have also developed guidelines on the use of so-called ‘A’-registered drugs, i.e. drugs, which belong to both buprenorphine and methadone, and we have guidelines on the use of ‘B’-drugs. What we've seen is that if professionals are to control this in a vacuum and without political superstructures alone, in a number of areas, there is a strong liberalization of use that has major ring-effects and adverse effects on the population. Therefore, it is important that the Storting engages in these issues and that the use of medicinal products is put into a context far beyond the starting point of the proposal of the proposer. I am, when the author of the proposal takes up the 25th anniversary rule, a little surprised that at least for the Workers' Party, it has not been possible to accept what is stated in the comment, just to look at some more liberal guidelines for the use of the 25th anniversary rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1600	This presented a particularly difficult topic, the treatment of drug addicts. For the Christian People's Party, it is a clear objective that all treatment must have freedom from rushes as a primary goal. However, once we have gone in to accept methadone treatment, we have done so with quite large counter-representations. It is positive that a drug addict can have a better life, and we know that many are grateful for it. However, this does not lead to drugfreeness, but it is followed up with targeted measures that are being put in place at the same time. We also know that overdose deaths due to methadone use in some places are alarming. The method is controversial. The proposer will have assessed whether the drug user himself, after consulting the treatment provider, should be free to choose the treatment method. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, this will lead to a strong liberalisation of methadone use, and it could quickly lead many further away from the possibility of a life of freedom. We strongly oppose this. The meaning of the presentation is certainly good, but I'm afraid that the consequences of it will be more and not fewer human tragedy. There must be a professional lashing on the basis of treatment for drug addicts. In fact, the Progress Party has reasonably strong outcomes against methadone teams and they call them a plug in the system, which they want to remove. The decision-maker shall assume responsibility for the printing of methadone. With all due respect for the Norwegian medical profession and the locals, I believe this will be a challenge that many professionals will not be able to handle. I see the ideas of the Progress Party as clearly desiring to liberalise the use of methadone, and it is the Christian People's Party that disagrees. The Labour Party and the Progress Party have different solutions, but the consequence will be essentially the same. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the majority maintains a strict treatment of methadone use, and that it is attached to a professional follow-up in those cases that, after professional judgement, one will agree to it. We are pleased with the plural conclusion of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1613	There is reason to recall that methadone treatment, or methadone-assisted rehabilitation, was developed throughout the country at the end of 1998, that further development has progressed very rapidly, and that it has also been withdrawn. the medicinal product Subutex and other medicinal products concerned, in addition to methadone, for the purpose of performing medically assisted rehabilitation. There is reason to be concerned about further liberalisation of this without regard to the measures that need to be taken at the same time as this medicinal product-assisted rehabilitation. I think there is reason to recall what the majority of the Social Committee said in the vote in relation to this year's budget: ‘... that treatment with methadone or buprenorphine only makes sense when it is introduced as part of an overall treatment, which also includes general rehabilitation/targeted reintroduction of the drug user. The treatment objective must, in the majority’s view, be to reduce/stop individual drug abuse and, over time, to enable the drug user to live a life as independently as possible from drug abuse.’ And the plural also says, ‘If methadone or buprenorphine is given without other simultaneous follow-up measures starting from this, liberalised use of the drug, as the majority sees it, may lead to an increased drug problem for the individual, in the worst cases with higher overall drug use and multiple overdose deaths as a consequence.’ We know that the Institute of Public Health has data on deaths in the drug abuse community, and that this material will now be further processed in terms of possible methadone use and cause of death. It's going to be interesting to see how this relates to each other. So we've been skeptical about further liberalising the use of methadone and buprenorphine. Particular attention must be paid in this rehabilitation of medicinal products to the fact that one has a strong follow-up to other measures against the individual drug addict, in particular with an emphasis on active after-care, including housing and social follow-up measures related to work, rehabilitation and leisure. We know that today there is a pilot project under the direction of the University of Oslo for the prescription of buprenorphine to 100 opiate addicts under the age of 25. This is in the initial phase and will be evaluated at the earliest in 2004. There is therefore reason to see the results of this plus international research before progressing with further liberalisation, if any. We think that this 25-year rule may have been strictly enforced and say that there may be other criteria, an overall assessment, which can be emphasised that several, including under 25 years, can be allocated methadone or other medicinal products in a medically assisted rehabilitation. However, it should be emphasised that successful medically assisted treatment depends on a comprehensive programme and other measures aimed at full rehabilitation and return to a different situation of life. These include: on social follow-up, as I mentioned, related to drug-free settings and support and provision of work and housing. We therefore ask that such interventions — and the local authorities’ ability to implement them — be given greater emphasis in the planning and implementation of drug policies for the future. We are looking forward to this being incorporated into Rusreform II. The local economy needs to be significantly strengthened in order to allow this to be implemented in practice, so that this does not just become fine words. Not least the dual diagnosis ratio in terms of drug use and psychiatry means that the resources of psychiatry are significantly strengthened compared to what you have seen now. Despite the psychiatry plan, it appears that there is a lack of resources both in the first and second line of care in the area of mental health protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1634	For the Left, it is important when now discussing and putting in place relief measures for our drug addicts, that there should be a low threshold for getting help and a high threshold for losing help. The fact that medically assisted rehabilitation is the only medicine, it doesn't. Giving medicine in medical interpretation is a bit of a rehabilitation. What I hear in conversation with drug addicts is that there is a lack of follow-up. There is a lack of cooperation in the auxiliaries to follow them up. It's not useful to just give people methadone, one must follow them up with other help measures. John Alvheim was in his post a little upset that one here was talking about a high pace. In fact, in recent years, there has been a high rate of pace, both in terms of the involvement of drug-assisted rehabilitation and the reorganization needed to help our drug addicts. I said there was a lack of follow-up and cooperation. Taking a complete review of the drug problem with these drug reforms will help. The fact that each drug addict receives his or her own rehabilitation plan, which says what drugs one needs, that one gets a professional assessment of what drugs work, and that one gives each drug addict confidence and motivation, is one of the most important things. What one has also lacked in drug treatment is the evaluation of interventions. A lot of pilot projects, evaluation and research have now been started that can give us the right answers to the questions: What is the most important thing we should bet on in the future? What are the missing help actions? In Norway, we don't have to look beyond borders to see what works elsewhere. In this room has one talk about one medicine after another. Professionals in Norway have our differences. So it's the Storting and the political environment that have started a discussion about whether we should not now introduce new drugs and new ways to treat our drug addicts. I hope that professionals in Norway are now starting to travel a little abroad, looking at what works in other European countries, and that we use the medicine they use, and as we see it works. When you talk about methadone, you can look at Switzerland and France, where one is betting on methadone. But you don't have the wager on follow-up measures, for you've seen it's cheapest with methadone. But it's the follow-up measures that provide quality of life, it's the follow-up measures that can bring back dignity and live a better life. So that's what we have to bet on, as well as the other thing. I believe that with the measures that this government has taken, one takes the right steps, one evaluates the criteria, it needs to be quite certain, too. I want to pay tribute to the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen for having started this debate. I think we have to look at the whole thing. We must not just address the criteria or things within them, we must look at the wholeness of the treatment that we have implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1649	There is a diversity of treatment and rehabilitation measures for drug users in Norway. Treatment methods and ideology vary within the framework of all these measures. Some of the measures are publicly owned, while others are owned and run by foundations and non-governmental organisations. Some people are based on drug-free treatment as a basic principle; others involve drug treatment. There are no simple solutions to drug users’ treatment and rehabilitation needs. It is therefore important to take care of and further develop different approaches. The current work on drug reform is aimed at clarifying responsibilities, linking specialised services to health care and reducing grey zone problems, by bringing together similar measures at the same level of administration. An important treatment type in this context is medically assisted rehabilitation. Drug-assisted rehabilitation was introduced in its time as a permanent, nationwide mechanism for opiate addicts to become available for treatment and to be motivated to address the problems they have in their lives. Neither methadone nor buprenorphine solves the problems themselves. All the evidence shows that treatment with medicinal products alone does not provide a simple solution to complex problems. I therefore agree with the majority of the Committee on Social Affairs, as at the beginning of the budget. S. No 11 for 2002-2003 states that: ‘methadone or buprenorphine treatment only makes sense when introduced as part of a holistic approach, which also includes general rehabilitation’. It may appear that the intentions and practices of the existing legislation are not consistent on all points. Reporting by the medically assisted rehabilitation centres/teams reveals that very few drug users under the age of 25 are included in medically assisted rehabilitation. This is essentially due to the very small amount of social services promoting applications on behalf of persons under 25 years of age. Therefore, there is reason to stress that the age limit is a general rule, which should not be used alone as a basis for any inclusion in the measure. There is an opportunity to derogate, inter alia: the age criterion of 25 years, ‘if an overall assessment so requires’. I want to make this clear. Therefore, I would like to make a clarification of the legislation already now and to state that the criteria need to be understood from such an overall perspective. A circular will be drawn up in a short time to clarify certain points in the applicable circular. I have noticed that the committee is concerned about precisely these matters, and what the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said was the starting point for the matter to be raised. Otherwise, I will carry out an independent, comprehensive evaluation of medically assisted rehabilitation. Work is in progress on preparing this, and we have obtained assessments from the Social and Health Directorate. The evaluation will include: focus on the functioning of the overall assistance measures around users, in other words, it will respond to the extent to which the combined, simultaneous actions and services are provided to users, meet the needs for rehabilitation. We'll also look at how the entire apparatus around the rehabilitation facility works. The evaluation will not focus directly on the effect of the use of medicines – we know these conditions. Further regulatory adaptations need to be seen in the light of national and international experience in medically assisted rehabilitation. The same is true of the Committee in its position. In addition, the comprehensive evaluation, which is now under way, must be able to provide important information on issues and issues which are essential for any further and more extensive amendment of the legislation on medically assisted rehabilitation. I will follow this up, and I will explain these issues in detail in relation to the revised budget for 2003, as I informed the Committee in my letter of 29 January this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1667	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox We should therefore be done dealing with the issues that are listed on today's map. [[Fotation, see page 2508]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1677	We then go to voting on the issues listed on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1684	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and Senterpartietproposal No. 2, by Karin Andersen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 3, by Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, No. 4, from Ivar Østberg on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party Proposals Nos. 1 to 3 is included in the setting, while points. 4 is distributed in the hall. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to wind up the Act of 12 June 1987 No. 56, the Law of Association, with the consequence that the Sameting is abolished."
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1716	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the need for national policy guidelines for Sámi issues for the planning work in municipalities and county municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1731	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government as soon as possible and, at the latest, in the Revised National Budget 2003, to provide an overall review and assessment of the reindeer game traps.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1766	There is an aberrant proposal here, proposal No. 4, from the Right, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to contribute to the national process of direct contact between the Ministry of the Environment and the Sameting. The organisation of the work shall be carried out in consultation with the Sameting and shall ensure that no decision is taken on the protection of the Tysfjord/Hellemo area without the identification and care of lulesamic interests.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1788	The President expects the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1818	In the course of the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the Government in the context of the Revised National Budget for 2003 to make proposals to eliminate the enterprises’ abstinence of 1⁄2 G of facilities for job creation.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1871	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Asmund Kristoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, from Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 1 is included in the setting, while No. 2 is distributed in the hall. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The Government asks the Government to draw up regulations on the patient rights law setting a clear age limit of 18 for cosmetic surgery not medically justified by referral from a doctor.2. The Storting asks the Government, through regulations of the Health Care Professional Act, to provide for the prohibition of certain types of marketing of cosmetic surgery.3. The Government asks for more stringent requirements for the competence of doctors to perform cosmetic surgery.4. The majority asks the Government to consider a ban on advertising for slimming agents and slimming cures.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01.ana.ud2067e1908	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to establish a more effective enforcement system than is currently the case in the event of infringement of the Health Personnel Act § 13. In particular, the Government is asked to consider whether there should be access to the imposition of fines in the event of a breach of this paragraph.’;» As far as the President has registered, the Workers' Party has notified that they will support this proposal. Is that what the Center Party wants? – It is confirmed.
