ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e71	The President will propose the election of a president of the Odelstingen Meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e76	I suggest Heidi Grande Røys.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e81	Heidi Grande Røys has been proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Heidi Grande Røys is considered unanimously elected president of Odelstingen’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e95	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e102	As rapporteur, I am of course pleased that a unanimous committee recommends that Odelstinget support the Government's proposal for amendments to the Aviation Act. The Ministry is given a general authorisation to provide for air carriers or other operators to pay a fee to finance the work of the Air Safety Authority in the field of civil aviation safety. At the same time, the Committee agrees with the Government's proposal to incorporate a provision of the Aviation Act allowing the Ministry of Transport to delegate powers under the Avinor AS Act, formerly the Aviation Agency. In St. Report. No 38 for 1996-97 stated that the new Air Safety Authority should be self-financing. Today, the fees charged by the Air Safety Authority for oversight services and access control do not fully cover the costs incurred by the oversight of these tasks. Therefore, during the examination of the State budget last autumn, it was decided to increase the Air Safety Authority’s fee revenue by approximately 40 million. kr in the current year. Therefore, the proposed amendment of the law will now provide a basis for charging the fee. Some have produced this bill as a blow on the faces of airlines and that the fee will make flights in Norway more expensive. To this end, it must be noted that the fee will constitute a relatively small proportion of the total costs of the companies. In addition, the airlines have experienced significant tax reductions in recent years. It is a fact that aviation is relatively more important in districts than in central areas, although it is important there too. Some have aired the idea of differentiating the fee, but it is likely to be contrary to EEA legislation. Nevertheless, it is reassuring that the Ministry of Transport may impose requirements on the offer of regional air routes in order to ensure a satisfactory level of frequency and tariffs for the calls for tender which are made at a certain number of years' intervals. The Christian People's Party assumes that it will be done in cases where it is necessary to ensure a good flight offer for outbound flights. Some have further been concerned that the costs associated with the transfer of the Air Safety Authority from Oslo to Bodø are to be financed by users. I am pleased that the Committee clearly stresses that the relocation should not be imposed on operators. Air traffic control is not the only supervision activity that is user-funded. As another example, the Post and Telecommunications Authority can be mentioned. Nevertheless, it may be useful and clarifying if the Storting is given the opportunity to hold a debate on the scope and use of fees for the financing of legislative and regulatory work. The Committee therefore asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a statement to that effect. Hopefully, it can bring this and, where appropriate, other issues relating to user financing of supervision into a wider context. In the Christian People's Party, we look forward to this statement by the Minister of Transport, and we will participate in the forthcoming debate with interest. Finally, as the rapporteur, I would like to commend the other parties for their good cooperation in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e126	Through the change we are about to make in the Aviation Act today, we extend the scope to finance the work of the Aviation Safety Authority in terms of fees so that it is possible to fully finance the activities of supervision. Already in St.meld. No 38 for 1996-97, Norwegian Aviation Plan 1998-2007, the principle of self-financing by the Air Safety Authority was established. Today we have the legal framework in place, so that this principle can be implemented. It has to be said that it has taken a long time to put this framework in place, but it is hardly by chance that it is the action government, also known as the Cooperation Government, that gets things in place. It is gratifying that a unanimous committee in the vote joins the Government's proposal. Full fee financing is not new in the transport sector. Also, postal and telecommunications supervision is almost fully financed by the user. In the vote, the committee has made some clarifications, and I will briefly address some of them. The Committee stresses that full user funding should not lead to undue growth in fees. It may be tempting for supervision, which is a monopoly, to increase fees instead of increasing the efficiency of operations. I assume we don't get this kind of development. The Committee has also asked for an overview of the use of fees in the legal and regulatory work in the transport sector. It may be useful to get an overview and to have a discussion on the principles to be used for charging purposes. Air traffic controllers are now on the move foot and are to be relocated in Bodø. Moving is a demanding process, and I will end up wanting the supervision to be happy with the moving process and its working with Bodø as the main base.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e143	The centre party is part of the plurality that a collective committee is making up in this matter, and we therefore support the amendments to the aviation laws that have been proposed. But as we see it, this is not a matter that is completely unproblematic. The new fee regulation provides for an increase in the fee for all operators, even if, as stated in the option, it is a small part of the company's costs. For the Central Party, it is important to extend the scope of aviation, especially in the districts. The new fee will probably be an additional cost for passengers and be involved in making travel more expensive. When it has to be 100 pst. user funding both for supervisory tasks and for legal and regulatory work must not be allowed to become an uncontrolled increase in the fee in the future. The centre party is therefore pleased that a joint committee asks the Government to return to the Stortinget with a ruling on the scope and use of the fee to finance legal and regulatory work in the Ministry of Transport. It is particularly important to clarify the definition of the type and extent of legislative and regulatory work to be included in the fee. It is important that new tasks to be covered by a fee cannot continue to be imposed, which eventually becomes a new expense for passengers or users of other services in this case. With the clarifications put in the comments by a Joint Committee, and the fact that the Committee asks the Ministry to come back with a statement on the exact fee for covering legal and regulatory work, the Central Party supports the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e154	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 685]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e170	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual posts, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e177	Inner. O. No 87 concerns changes in postal laws, which are mainly a follow-up to proposals made in St.prp. No 46 for 2002 to 2003 on the additional opening to competition in the Community postal services market. I would therefore like to refer to the debate in connection with the discussion of St. prp. No 46 for 2002-2003 in the Stortinget earlier today. In this article, I want to comment on some points that I did not comment on in the Storting earlier today. In Ot.prp. No 41 for 2002-2003 includes a proposal to clarify the principle of geographical unit sport. Pursuant to the second paragraph of Section 5 of Postlove, there shall be a geographical unit portfolio for services coming under the single right area. After svalbard law, postal law also applies to Svalbard. Thus, the same posto level for Svalbard is fixed as for the mainland. This has been done even if the VAT reform applicable to mainland Norway does not apply to Svalbard. The Longyearbyen local government disagrees that Svalbard’s postage level should be the same as in the mainland, as the VAT reform does not apply to Svalbard. The Ministry of Transport's proposal clarifies the principle of geographical unity in relation to Svalbard. Besides this, the department has not seen any changes to the unity portfolio. The Committee has not had any comments on the Ministry's proposal and will therefore support the clarification in Section 5 of the Postal Law. In the proposal to amend section 6 of post-love, the Ministry has introduced a weight limit for the first weight class, 20 grams. In reply to a question submitted to the Committee, the Ministry makes it clear that the Directive to be incorporated does not require the inclusion of the first class of weights in national legislation. In a fully deregulated market, the introduction of the first weight class, 20 grams, of the national postal company may be anti-competitive in relation to other postal distributors, who are not required to decide on this weight limit. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party do not therefore have reason to take this into consideration in the law now. In addition, Section 6 contains changes that repeal the Post Office’s one-off right to outgoing cross-border mail and changes that show a gradual reduction in the area of one-off law through changes in price and weight limits. This liberalisation is the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party against, and we will vote against Section 6. I want to refer to the option on page 3, first column, where the last comment from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party used the wrong word. It says that these two parties will vote against the proposal for changes to postal laws. To clarify: The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party will vote for Section 5, which is a clarification of the legal text, while we will vote against Section 6, which is on the liberalisation of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e196	The President has noted the clarifications now made by the representative Jorunn Ringstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e199	As I said in my speech during the debate on the Post earlier today, the Labour Party is skeptical about uncritically following the timetable proposed by the Government, especially when an evaluation of the Directive is to be carried out during 2004. I'm not going to spend that much time, I just want to say that I think that the Norwegian National Assembly could take the time to wait for the evaluation before we reduce the exclusive rights area to 50 grams. On this basis, the Workers' Party will vote against Section 6, second paragraph, second sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e206	Most of the policy on this matter was debated in Stortinget earlier today. I will therefore try to keep an entry of 20 grams – at least in terms of content related to this minimum weight limit of 20 grams that the Ministry has proposed included in Section 6 of the Act. The Committee has corresponded with the Ministry and received a two-part response on the need to have this bracket of 20 grams within the legal text. The answer is briefly stated that it has a positive educational value for all those who are going to deal with this legislation in practice to be able to read this straight out of the text. In addition, it has a second point, which states that if the Post was free to sea to change the scope of the first weight class, they would in effect have the opportunity to influence their own exclusive jurisdiction. These are two points that we want to focus on, and we naturally support the Ministry's proposals. Then the case rapporteur was in the minority comment of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, which states that the introduction of the first weight class, 20 grams, for the national postal company in a fully deregulated market, would be competitive compared to other postal distributors, who would not have to decide on this weight class. To that it is to say from our side that if you come to a fully liberalized market, this must be a non-problem, because then we have another law revision to deal with. So this is useful text until you eventually get to a fully liberalized market.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e215	The legislative proposal is essentially a follow-up to the new EU directive on the gradual liberalisation of the postal market, which has been discussed here earlier today. Furthermore, the proposal clarifies the requirement for geographical unit portfolio in relation to Svalbard. I would like to comment on some aspects that have been discussed in relation to the content of the proposition. I have noticed that the Labour Party members of the Committee on Transport believe that the further liberalisation in 2006 should not be laid down in the legislation at present. In the view of the Government, it is best in line with the Directive that further liberalisation in 2006 is now laid down in the legislation. The Directive's requirement for further liberalisation in 2006 is firm, regardless of the reports and any proposals to be made before that date under the Directive. In my opinion, the solution also has good reasons for doing so. It helps to ensure predictability of further liberalisation for the Post and for other postal operators. As I also mentioned earlier today, the Directive will not change the requirements for the service offer in the Posten concession. It shall, as before, be a geographical unit portfolio for the whole country for services in the area of exclusive rights. With regard to the proposal to fully open up the market for mail to the rest of the world, I stress that the amending Directive draws a narrower framework for access to foreign mail than the 1997 Postal Directive. In our view, it is best in line with the Directive that this market be opened up from 2003. Most European countries have also today, legally and/or in fact, opened up this market to competition. In addition, I believe that the international postal market is one of the markets where the Post will mark the competition of other major operators. This competition, I think, will benefit consumers and businesses. I am therefore pleased that there is a majority in the Transport Committee of the Government's proposal to open up the market for mail to the rest of the world to full competition. I have noticed that the minority in the Committee on Transport believes that the Post itself should determine the scope of the first weight class. This would, in practice, mean that the area of exclusive rights could vary as a result of the company's internal decisions. As long as we have rules on exclusive rights, it should, in the Government's view, be the task of the authorities to determine the scope of this right, even if this could restrict the Post's commercial freedom somewhat. Against this background, I am therefore also very pleased that the majority of the Committee on Transport agrees that the first-class area should be defined in the law, and not by the Post itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e243	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 685]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e258	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 686]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e274	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a possibility of changing lines of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers for each party group and five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This will be regarded as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e285	The amendments to the Children’s Act are, in fact, a set of new rules of procedure for the courts in child distribution cases. But it also includes some other elements, such as: how old children should be before they should be heard. The Children's Act is an important law because it deals with and touches the children of Norwegian society, and the children are as familiar with our future. It is therefore important that the legislative changes made under this law be dealt with in line with international conventions in order to ensure the rights of children. The Committee has done so in this matter. We have had hearings, where the vast majority of stakeholders have been heard. It is very important for the family committee that Norway has a good child law, and the Committee would stress that it must always be the child’s right and what is best for the child, which must be in focus. The Committee is also concerned with the rights of association of parents or, in other words, with the right of the child to be associated with both his or her parents, where the child is to live, and the obligations and rights of the cohabiter, but this is discussed in the family communication submitted by the Committee for the autumn. Furthermore, the UN Children's Convention is incorporated into the law, and the Stortinget will be presented with a new case if there are changes in the Children's Act as a consequence of this. The Committee will agree and point to the importance of the intentions of the Odelstingsproposition to transpose the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child into Norwegian law, as well as to align the child law in order to adapt it to today’s society. It is a majority of the committee that asks the Government to promote a legislative proposal that gives cohabiting parental responsibility in the same way as married people. This clearly shows that the Stortinget manages to follow in time, by assimilating married and cohabiting parents even in the event of a breach. As children of cohabiting parents have not had the same rights under Norwegian law as children of married parents, this is a step in the right direction. In addition, it is a majority of the committee that asks the Government to consider promoting a change in the legal text, so that children’s rights become the guiding principle of the Children’s Act. The reason for this is that the majority of the Committee is aware that the term ‘best’ is well used, even almost exhausted, and can also be abused, depending on who interprets it. That's why it's important to also get other concepts into the law. As the rapporteur of the case, it is good to see that we are on the right track, and that the further discussion about association, the child's place of residence and other important things affecting the child is duly discussed in the family message for the autumn. But when that is said, the Progress Party wants us to take on board a few elements already now. There is one obvious right for all children in Norway to have – and worldwide so far – and that is the right to be with both their parents. That's what the United Nations Children's Convention says, and we want that to be enshrined in the Children's Act as well. That is why we are promoting proposals for automatic sharing of parental care and parental responsibility. This could have contributed to the avoidance of the war zones we experience in some families. You don't have to use children as weapons. It looks like we're standing alone on this proposal, despite the fact that it's absolutely central both to the incorporation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, and to what best safeguards children's rights. After this proposal, there was no need to discuss forms of association, because then the child had a legal right to get together with both his or her parents, automatically, and the parents who could not agree could go to the court. But since we stand alone on this proposal in this round, we will subsidiaryly support the SV's proposal, No. 5, repealing Section 43 of the Children’s Act, which concerns normal association. In addition, the Party of Advances is skeptical about appointing experts in child-sharing cases. There is experience in issues where experts have become – if we are to say it – somewhat biased, and it is difficult to avoid a mix of roles. The Party has noted that in the hearings it is almost exclusively the experts’ organisations that have expressed a positive opinion on the appointment of experts. Another important element of this change is how old a child should be to be heard in child distribution matters. For the Advancement Party, it is all the more important to spare the child from adult conflicts, and not to involve them in matters that their parents are fighting about. We understand the intentions of the other parties, both those parties that believe that children should be heard when they are seven years old, and those parties that believe that there should be no age limit, but that even young children should be heard in child distribution matters. There are several reasons why the Progress Party believes that the age limit should be as it is, namely twelve years. It's no longer as much possible to manipulate a 12-year-old. There's something about that in war and love everything is allowed. And I guess it's not very hard to imagine that when you're seven, you'll be able to be guided more easily than a 12-year-old. The children are the dearest thing we have, and I guess we all want to maintain close contact with them even after a possible breakup. The fear of losing them means that some parents will be able to try to convince their children that with them is the only place where they get it well. Even adults don't always think equally rationally and rationally, what's the child's right, and what's the best for the child, when the conflict is the largest. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that age — that is, 12 years — and maturity must be taken into account when hearing a child. And perhaps the most important thing is that you actually listen to the child and as far as possible comply with the child's wishes. Had it been a majority for the Progress Party's proposal on automatic sharing of parental responsibility and care, this had not been a subject of the Children's Act. It would have solved itself. When it comes to other matters the child should be heard in, and that concern them, we may also be able to assess age and maturity in a different way. However, in the case of adult-to-adult conflict resolution, it should be kept exactly between adults. Then the kids can make their choices when they're mature and old enough for it. With this, I would like to raise the proposal of the Progress Party and inform you that we support proposal No subsidized. 5 from SV. In addition, the Progress Party wishes to vote against § 31, second paragraph, first sentence, and § 61, which relates to the appointment of experts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e329	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has drawn up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e334	The Progress Party, like the Socialist Left Party, believes that the courts should not operate and assess what is in the best interests of the child. Here one should simply deal with what is the child's right, as also the representative Karin Woldseth had in mind in his speech. But it is such that the child, for example, has a sunscreen straight down the Convention on the Rights of the Child not to be separated from the parents. The Contracting Party considers that the courts should deal only with this right. The lot will then also be in favour of automatic shared care and responsibility. Does this mean that the Progress Party will also go into permanent residence, and will the Progress Party that Norwegian courts will be able to judge people to live in a particular place?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e341	As far as the rights of the child are concerned, at the moment you are born into this world, in Norway, a right, a human right. We also have the UN Children's Convention, and we have the Children's Act. All of these laws are rights laws. And that you automatically get this right when you're born, we as legislators should also take inwards. In the case of residence and association, as I said, we come back to this in the family message, where we think this belongs at home. And whether to judge the courts, I will not decide until I see the Government's proposal on this specific point.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e348	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e351	The representative, Karin S. Woldseth, has explained the content of the Children's Act and also the policies of the Progress Party. I want to draw on the views of the Labour Party in some contexts. The Ministry has made proposals to the Stortinget on amendments to the Children's Act, and the Committee has worked at the same time to incorporate the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child into Norwegian law. The intention of the Children's Act is to protect children from abuse. The law shall ensure and strengthen the rights of the child, even if the child does not have formal party status. In matters of this nature, it is not uncommon that it focuses on between the parties. It must therefore be emphasised that laws and regulations must never be adapted to the best interests of the parties. To that, the child’s position is too exposed and the child itself is too important. The working party does not want children to be subjected to undue pressure in the event of a break in their lives. Such pressure can easily occur when the child is faced with the choice of living with mother or father. The Workers' Party will therefore ask the Government to take action so that, in the event of a break in life, a written contract is made. Such a contract may be a contract in which the child’s right to be heard and the interests and rights of the child are safeguarded. Children are easily susceptible. However, the Labour Party has supported the setting of an indicative age limit for hearing children. The age limit is now moved from 12 to 7 years as an indicative age limit, which corresponds to the age limit laid down in the adoption law and the Child Protection Act. However, the new age limit must not prevent children from hearing at a lower age if the maturity of the child so warrants. Nevertheless, it is important once again to stress that children are not obliged to speak. Nor is it the case that children can express themselves if the child gives the impression of having the maturity required for such a hearing to be appropriate. The child must be informed that he/she is not obliged to speak, because it is important that the child does not perceive the right to speak as an obligation. If this right of the child is perceived as an obligation and not a right, it is likely that the child may feel pressured. This must be avoided at all costs. It must be assumed that, in a situation where mother and father are separated, the child already has a high level of stress. Further pressure on the child must therefore be avoided. Imagine, President, what a desperate situation a child will be in when the child perceives that it should choose between mother and father, and when the child is very happy in both. The working party has also taken a decision on the use of experts in matters of this nature. The use of experts is likely to help children in a difficult situation. Among other things, experts may be present when children express their views on association, and experts may also be a contribution to the public responsibility of getting children involved in their own future. Children are independent individuals, both legally and not least human. Therefore, children must be seen as actors who have a right to be heard. In order to obtain such consultation of children, the Workers' Party believes that the appointment of an expert spokesperson can help the child communicate the thoughts of the child. So we're talking about a law that's primarily about the child's right, not the right to the child. Children have the right to a mother and a father. The ideal thing is that mother and father agree on shared parental rights. The working party would point out that the concept of ‘common rights of association’ should not be regarded as the norm, but should contribute to the provision of normal rights of association as a starting point for the child’s ability to have more association with both parents. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is not only about rights of association, about hearing child protection and adoption cases, or about other rights, but also about sexual abuse against children. The Labour Party will have an increase in the penalty for selling, owning or producing child pornography. Today, the law is designed in such a way that sexual abuse against children gives the offender a disproportionately low penalty compared to other crimes. Unfortunately, Norway does not have its own criminal code that distinguishes between child abuse and adult pornography. The result is that we have a lower penalty framework for child pornography than several other European countries. Child pornography is not porn, either with or for children. So-called child pornography is simply an assault on children, and it's grounded to place these abuses in the same booth as pornography. The Labour Party is also of the opinion that the use of pornographic material by persons under 18 years of age is punishable. The Workers' Party has also taken a decision on the administrative treatment of child-sharing cases. The county council has been the body in which children's distribution cases have been decided. The working party believes that the county council has developed a competence in this field as per. are not present in the courts today. In order to ensure that such cases are dealt with in a secure manner in the courts, it is necessary to facilitate the exercise of the competence of the county council today. I take this up with me the proposals where the Labour Party is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e383	The representative Eirin Fallet has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e386	I want to start by saying a little about what this matter is about, and not least what it is not about. This case is about providing Norwegian courts with new and flexible tools to deal with family matters more quickly and at the same time in a way that provides more robust and durable solutions, in line with what is best for the children. On the other hand, the case is not about family mediation and child rights agreements. It's not about shared care, and it's not about permanent residence. I say this because, when dealing with this matter, a number of comments and suggestions have come up that are completely different from what this proposition concerns. Otherwise, I would like to point out that both the Committee and the Stortinget will have ample opportunity to address issues relating to children and family, in the context of the family communication, which the Government has recently presented. At the same time, I would like to remind the Stortinget that this government has really done the job in the children's and family area. The Minister for Children and Family Affairs has, among other things: the provision of a comprehensive communication on child and youth protection, a growing-up Communication on child and youth conditions and a growing-up Communication on child care policy, as well as the said Communication on family policy. The messages are speckled with innovative policies. I'm glad that we now have a government that not only describes social development, but also wants something, and that points out a direction in family policy. I indicated at the outset that it is important to stick to the matter. That's what I'm going to do by raising the question of what the term "best of the child" really means. We all want the best for the children. In particular, parents usually want the best for their own children, although parents often find themselves in a situation where they do not want the best for each other — rather the opposite. However, in a court context, the ‘best of the child’ means that the court must assess all claims, all motives and all facts against each other. At the same time, the courts must review all elements point by point and assess what is best for the child. I spend a little time on this because, in my opinion, the Committee has become involved in an unfortunate discussion about concepts such as ‘child’s rights’, ‘the best’ and ‘the right of the child’. So, as government parties see it, it's the best thing for the child to be the judge of the courts. The child’s right is the result of the judgment and is to be executed as such, namely the child’s right. I'll illustrate this a little bit more. It is such that the child, for example: has a right to be with both parents. If the parents do not want or can no longer live together and do not agree with each other, the case must be brought before the Court of Justice. For example, there may be: The Court assesses whether it is in the best interests of the child to continue living at home and to continue to attend the same kindergarten or school instead of moving. Such and a number of other factors, the courts must assess and weigh and then reach their decision. Once the judgment has been delivered, it shall be executed as a child’s right, e.g.: the child can then have a right to do so and so much association with the other parent. Then someone will probably point to the UN Children's Convention and claim that children have a right not to be separated from their parents. That's right. But no one can force the parents to live together either. The parents also have a right to settle wherever they want, and so it must be. In cases where parents are unable to reach agreement, it is up to the Court to assess what is best for their children and to ensure that children’s rights are enforced. I would like to repeat that this matter is therefore about providing the courts with new and flexible tools to put in place more robust solutions, for the benefit of the children and families. I would otherwise like to point out that the Government of the formerly mentioned family message has announced that it will be in favour of shared parental responsibility for cohabitants, in line with what applies to spouses. In my view, we should be subject to this important issue of thorough debate when dealing with the family communication. We therefore believe that the proposal of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left is therefore unnecessary in this context. It is also the case that the Socialist Left Party wishes to turn the county councils into special courts in child distribution cases, with concern for the lack of capacity and competence in the judiciary. Here, a number of questions arise immediately. If the Socialist Left Party is concerned about the capacity of the judiciary, what do they think will happen to the critical trial period in the counties, for example. in relation to acute care takeovers and forced placements? And again, what kind of appeals do the Left Party see that the parties to a case for such an unorthodox tribunal should have? Do you have to appeal to the ordinary legal system, or do you have the right to appeal to a county councillor? Where is the interface to the ordinary legal entity to go? I am aware of the argument that similar arrangements as the Socialist Left now vigilance sketches exist in other countries, but it is therefore in other countries with other legal systems and other legal traditions. I would like to ask the Socialist Left if there is a limitless trust in the sitting government that makes them develop their proposal as they do. So SV asks the government to turn the county councils into special courts. Even I am quite sure that if you want to make this transformation, it will require up to several changes to the law. Then it is not quite unusual that the Storting must enter the picture. In fact, the proposal is so poorly designed that in my opinion the President should consider rejecting the proposal. The legal tradition is known to relate to two parties. In child distribution matters, each parent will stand as a counterparty and both try to win his or her hearing for his or her point of view. Children do not have party status in the case. The working party says that the child should have party status, but not legal. I choose to interpret the Workers' Party in the best possible sense and pay attention to the Workers' Party's wish for all children to be heard. The Workers' Party, like the Centre Party, is together with the Government Parties in wanting to provide the courts with the necessary flexibility and the desired means of action. These parties will allow the Judge to appoint a representative of the child, where the Court considers it appropriate. These lots will also ensure that more children are effectively informed by lifting the current 12-year limit and reducing the age limit to seven years. The majority emphasise that all children should be heard, but in order to ensure that more children are able to do so in practice, we introduce an indicative seven-year limit. This age limit also corresponds to the limits of the adoption law and the Child Protection Act. I think that's a great advantage. Let me conclude by saying that the committee has discussed many suggestions about this proposition. Some have been more relevant than others. I conclude that the government parties form a nuclear majority together with the Workers' Party and the Center Party. In such an important matter as this one, the Right is very comfortable with us creating a majority of the government's policies, is at the centre of our policy, and at the same time is taking an important step forward. We must probably take inward that in the future there may be even more breakups than today. Then it is a matter of being equipped to face difficult issues about children's growth. With today's legislative change, we have put the legal system in a much better position to meet these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e426	We agreed here instead that we should not have lines in this debate. It will be a little difficult when you come across so many attacks on another party in your post, so I have to start my post by answering the representative from the Right. In fact, it is in the beginning of this proposition that the Ministry proposes new rules of procedure for the courts in cases under the Child Responsibilities Act, where the child is to live permanently, and togetherness, child distribution matters. A specific feature of child distribution matters is that the child himself, to whom the decision is most concerned, does not have party status. And then this is discussed in the content of the propositions. It is quite clear that when we want to move these things to the counties, it is not something we in SV have found out in our own little head. In fact, the hearing opinion says that there is a possibility that many have looked at. Then, of course, the same rules should apply to these cases as to the other cases in question, that they should be appealed to the Court of Justice. Then go to SV's posts. It is important that the Children’s Act reflects changes in society and takes into account the UN Children’s Convention, which points to children’s rights and safeguards children’s safety and security. Ot. pp. No 29 proposes changes to the rules of procedure of the courts in cases under the Child Liability Act. The child can easily be harmed when feeding on a child-distribution case. The principle of equivalent parenthood must be an overall starting point. Parental responsibility lasts until the child reaches the age of 18, regardless of whether parents live together or not, and regardless of the form in which they live together. This means that parents have a high responsibility to distinguish between their child’s own needs and that the child’s needs need to be addressed first and focused. Some parents are good at cooperating, while others are not. Many children grow up in a troubled home situation, which can be experienced as a war zone, with the unfortunate consequences this may have for the child. Even for many parents who have a desire to find a solution to the best for the child, emotional stress could hinder constructive cooperation. A cooperation agreement between parents can resolve the conflicts and more than one can open up flexible and practical solutions. The aim is to ensure a good situation for the child after the fracture. The contract must contain three main features of the day-to-day life of children: distribution of living time/cohabitation with parents, route between residences and kindergarten and school situation. SV proposes that, in the event of a break in life, regardless of whether the parents are married or cohabitants, a written contract shall be made in which the child’s right to be heard and the interests and rights of the child are respected. SV wants professional assistance and counselling after a break in life to be available to all members of the family. This can help parents to improve their cooperation for the best of their children. It is a good social economy to use sufficient resources on a good and accessible offer. We therefore propose that the Government facilitate the provision of help to parents and children who wish to do so in connection with a break in their lives. This offer shall be free of charge and free of charge. The best interests and rights of the child shall be a fundamental consideration within the meaning of Article 3 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The best of children is a concept that is difficult to define, and given that the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is a law, the rights of the child should also be guided by the Children’s Act. I want to tell the representative from the Right, Afshan Rafiq, that this is when we incorporate the Children's Act into Norwegian law, and what was important was to see these two laws in the context. SV is concerned about the capacity and competence of the General Courts and therefore supports the minority of hearing bodies, which believe that the county should be converted into a specialised court in child distribution cases. The capacity of the General Courts has been a major focus in recent years. We are concerned that child distribution matters should remain in the courts for a long time, so that the child’s situation is not clarified in a timely manner. SV agrees that it can be dismissed without main negotiations as long as both parties agree. But I would like to make it clear that the rights of the child must be respected. We are also positive that different groups of experts can make a positive contribution to issues in the distribution of children. It is a special feature of child distribution matters that the child himself, to the greatest extent concerned, does not have party status. It is important to respect the individual, independent rights of the child, and it requires that children be recognised as independent individuals, both legal and human. Children must be respected and heard as actors with influence over their own lives. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child Article 9 says that children should not be separated from their parents against their will, except in the best interests of the child. Where parents have a child-sharing conflict, the appointment of an expert spokesperson for the child will be necessary. SV is committed to ensuring that the child’s right of association with both parents under the Convention on the Rights of the Child is respected. We propose that the second paragraph of Section 43 be amended so that the word ‘common rights of association’ is deleted. When the Children's Act was last treated, it was emphasised that normal association was not to be seen as normative. However, this has become normative. We believe that the child should be heard and his/her opinion given weight and that the place of residence and the degree of association should be assessed on a case-by-case basis. We will also point out the child's right to have a relationship with parents, even if the parents have not lived together or have been married. We therefore propose that the Government investigate and come back with proposals for amendments to the Children’s Act, in order to ensure that parents who are married, cohabitants or parents who have not lived together are treated equally in child distribution cases. SV does not want any specific age to be set for the consultation of children, but that the current age limit of 12 years should be lifted. The child’s right to be heard about his or her own views must be emphasised in accordance with his or her age and maturity. This is a right that the child has, regardless of age. The child has the right to be heard in any judicial process concerning the child. The child has the right, but not the duty, to express his or her opinion. Good expert and good practice is necessary, so that the child is understood. It is important that the child understands that it has a right, but not an obligation, to speak. In order to achieve this in a good way, there is a need for increased competence and requirements for special and continuing training for experts and lawyers working with children in child distribution matters. SV will maintain access to child distribution matters decided by the county. It must be optional for parents whether they wish to go to the judiciary or to the county council in order to settle child distribution matters. Guidance and information activities and overall coordination responsibilities shall remain with the State. We therefore believe it is natural that the county can at the same time be the decision-making body in the field, so that those who want to do so can have their case processed there. There is a high level of competence and long experience in this type of case at the county level. We are pleased that today we are getting a majority in favour of the proposal that the Government should promote a bill that gives cohabiting parents parental responsibility in the same way as married ones. This is a good and necessary adaptation to our new social structure, where over 50 pst. by parents are consensual. It is right that this should be done in dealing with this amendment, so that Article 9 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child is respected. It says: ‘The child shall not be separated from his or her parents against his or her will, except when this is necessary for the best interests of the child.’ SV believes the changes that have now been made and the focus on the child in comments on the amendment of this child law will make this law more suitable for children and their parents. On behalf of SV I address our proposals. SV will also vote against Section 43, second paragraph. We will also subsidiaryly support § 31, after our proposal No. 7 has fallen. And then finally, we actually think that we've understood the content of the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e479	The representative of May Hansen has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e482	Understanding a proposition should be necessary to deal with it, but it's not always as easy, it has to be admitted. For the Christian People's Party, it is essential that we have legislation that puts the child's best in focus and that helps to make a break in life as gentle as possible for the children concerned. This is the objective of the proposal for new rules of procedure in child distribution cases before the courts. It is therefore particularly important that the courts have the necessary competence in relation to just children. It is also positive that the Committee subscribes to the Government's proposal for new rules of procedure in child distribution cases before the courts. One of the main proposals of the Government in this context is to lower the age limit for the consultation of children to seven years of age in the Children’s Act, and a majority agree to this. It is important to stress that children must also be taken seriously in the legal context and therefore be given the opportunity to be heard. At the same time, it is also important to stress that the child has no obligation to speak, but a right to be heard. In this context, we would also like to point out that in its position on Ot.prp. No 45 for 2002–2003 on the Law amending the Law on Human Rights, etc. [[Inclusion of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Norwegian Law]] have agreed with the Government’s proposal to lower the age limit for consultation of children to seven years of age under the adoption and child protection laws. It is an appropriate solution to have the same age limit for the consultation of children in cases under these three laws, all of which regulate decisions relevant to the child’s family and care situation. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Centre, points out that the indicative age limit down to seven years should not prevent younger children from being given the opportunity to be heard in other types of matters relating to the child. This majority believe that it would be obvious to have an indicative age limit when the child has a right to speak. If there is no particular consideration, it would be procedural error not to bring children down to this age to be heard. The children shall have no obligation to mean anything, but they shall have an opportunity to do so. The Christian People's Party wants to strengthen children's participation. This is an important part of making the Convention more visible in Norwegian law. Clearly, with the proposed change in the age limit for the consultation of children in the Children’s Act, there will still be an opportunity to hear children younger than the age limit laid down by law. In the Committee's work there has been a discussion of the use of the term 'best of the child', which has also been addressed by other speakers before me. That's what the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is using. There is a majority in the Committee to ask the Government to consider whether amendments should be made, so that instead the ‘child’s rights’ become the guiding principle of the Children’s Act. Now this is going to be evaluated, and then we're going to have to wait for what the government's going to do about this. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we have stressed that "the best of the child" is the concept used both in the Children's Convention and in other laws as the criterion for resolving a conflict between the parents in matters of parental responsibility, the child's place of residence and association. This would stress that the best interests of the child should be a fundamental consideration in all decisions. This is a heavy argument for using the term ‘best of the child’, or as it is formulated, ‘best of the child’, also in the Children’s Act. Providing general rules on what is best for the child in all matters is neither possible nor desirable, because the best of the child must depend on a concrete individual assessment in each case. We think it'll be an obvious advantage if there's equal terminology in all laws. Otherwise, I join the good posts of the representative, Avshan Rafiq, and I also refer to our comments on this point. Then it is important to stress, as the Committee has done, that parents in conflict should be helped to reach an agreement on cooperation with regard to the child. The amendments proposed therefore allow the judge to be assisted in a more targeted way at an early stage in the case by qualified children than at present, in order to contribute to more and better contractual solutions. In the family communication, the Government has submitted proposals to amend the mediation system. The proposals of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left to grant cohabiting parents rights in line with marriage seem to be a bit hasty. However, after the examination of the family notification, other parts of this legislation must also be followed up. The Christian People's Party seems natural to see this in connection with other matters relating to married couples/partners. A natural treatment is in connection with the family message and not the child law. Issues related to shared residence, parental responsibility and association are discussed in more detail in this particular family message.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e508	The children are indisputably the big losers when the breakup is a fact. Luckily, the great majority somehow masters, perhaps more or less successfully, finding solutions without having to change the legal system. But unfortunately, too many children are drawn into the conflict when mother and father leave each other, and there are many who experience being thrown balls and chips in an unworthy game that children should be spared for. It is absolutely necessary for us to try to find solutions that can help to dampen the conflicts, so that the best of the children is taken care of. The children's environment has characterized the situation of many children after the breakup between mother and father is a fact, such as the future – a journey without a map! It's unfortunately a good and covering characteristic for thousands of children. It is therefore important that the child be involved and have a certain influence when drawing the future map. The centre party mainly supports the proposition. The best thing for the child must always be the column of things about children. The intention that children’s distribution matters should be prioritised in time, so that they do not lie for a long time in the judiciary, is very important, not least in terms of strengthening the child’s legal security. It is also immeasurably important for the child to clarify his/her everyday situation. One can choose from each and one can think of the small, sustainable situation, e.g. for a four-five-year-old, when the only one is uncertain. To experience that mother and father are in an endless war where the child is sought for as a party is heartbreaking and evil for a little child. The centre party sees it as positive that it is now set up to reduce the costs associated with the legal entity. Public taking on greater financial responsibility can help reduce the level of conflict, at least in this area. The goal and vision of building a judgmental state of competence and interest is challenging and demanding, but it is absolutely the right way to go. It is also interesting to note that the proposition recommends some specialisation in the court. Children’s professional competence may become a resource, but it must be used wisely. It seemed right to me that today’s expert guidelines should be revised and that the training programme you have today should be updated before a set of new rules is implemented. There has been a strong commitment from many adversarial children's right to be heard. Everyone stresses how important it is to avoid the child having to choose a side in conflicts, and I don't think it can be stressed strongly enough. Children must not experience becoming a key witness to one or the other in a bitter and uplifting battle. Children should be treated with caution, and there must be a strong emphasis on the state of fashion of the child, regardless of age. I would like to stress that a guide limit of seven years must not prevent younger children from being able to express themselves. But at the same time, I would like to stress that children seven years of age or older are not content to speak. Here, a sweater must be careful – the child must not feel under any circumstances that it is subjected to cross-press, where the mother stands on one side and the father stands on the other side. So brief a explanation of vote. In the case of debt B, it was from the Central Party's point of view that this was a problem which it was appropriate to deal with in connection with the family communication, but since the proposal is pending, the Central Party will nevertheless vote in favour of it. When it concerns C, I would like to stress that for the Central Party, the best thing for the child is to be the basic one, but since the proposal is formulated so as to ask the Government to ‘assess’ a change in the legal text, I would also recommend that a support C. Otherwise, we shall vote against all minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e531	It is important to help parents in conflict to reach an agreement on cooperation with regard to the child. This is also the objective of the proposals for new rules of procedure in child distribution cases before the courts. The proposed rules of procedure will include, inter alia: could contribute to a reduction in the length of the procedure. Greater flexibility in the use of expert assistance will contribute to more efficient and targeted management of the matter in terms of time use, compared with the current system, where traditional expert statements are the only option. I also believe it would be beneficial for child distribution cases to be dealt with by judges with knowledge and experience of this specific type of case. The Ministry of Children and the Family will therefore take the initiative to send a recommendation to the courts on the channelling of child distribution cases to particularly interested judges when new legislation enters into force. Such specialisation, together with the new possibilities of using experts at all stages of the process, will, in my view, ensure that child-distribution cases are properly handled in the general courts. Today, it is the courts that deal mainly with child distribution cases. The county council only deals with a small proportion of the cases, because the proceedings at the county council require agreement. In addition, the most difficult issues are rarely solved or never resolved by the county. They're moving on to the courts. The Committee proposes that the Storting should ask the Government to take action so that, in the event of a breach of life, a contract or agreement is made whereby the child’s right to be heard and the interests and rights of the child are safeguarded. In addition, the Committee proposes to ask the Government to facilitate the provision of assistance and advice to parents and children who wish to do so in the event of a breach of life and that the offer should be free of charge and free of charge. In St.meld. No 29 for the 2002–03 family communication, the Government has presented proposals to amend the mediation system. Proposals relating to arrangements to encourage parents to enter into pre-trial agreements before the courts and to provide parents with assistance and advice should, in my view, be discussed in the context of the evaluation of the proposals relating to the mediation system in the family communication, which have also been discussed by several representatives here today. However, the Ministry has prepared an information brochure which provides parental guidance on what a cooperation agreement for children should contain and which is in line with the broad outlines of the majority point to the need for a cooperation agreement between parents. This leaflet is used, for example: in the case of mediation, both in the context of separation and a breach of life, and in the case of mediation in which parents wish to bring children's distribution proceedings before the court. In this way, we also think that this far-reaching is well taken care of. The government has also presented a number of proposals related to cohabitants in the family message. These include: proposed changes in mediation and parental responsibility. I therefore think it is natural that proposals relating to parental responsibility for cohabitants should be considered in the context of the Storting family communication discussions. The situation of parents, depending on whether they are married, cohabiting or never living together, differs primarily from the fact that marriages have automatic shared parental responsibility, while there is no automaticity in this respect in the case of cohabitants or parents who have never lived together. For this reason, the Government has proposed some changes here. I am pleased that a majority in the Committee supports the Government's proposal to lower the age limit for consultation of children in the Children's Act to seven years. This will be an effective tool to ensure that children are heard from this age. However, it is important to stress, as many have done before me, that the child has no obligation to speak, but a right to be heard. Furthermore, it is clear that with the proposed change in the age limit for the consultation of children in the Children’s Act, there will still be an opportunity to hear children younger than the age limit that is now legalised. I also refer to the Legal Affairs Committee in its position on Ot.prp. No 45 for 2002-2003, on the transposition of the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Norwegian law, aims to lower the age limit for consultation of children in the adoption law and the Child Protection Act to seven years. It is an appropriate solution to have the same age limit for the consultation of children in cases under these three laws, all of which regulate decisions relevant to the child’s family and care situation. I understand the position so that the majority of the committee wants an absolute age limit of seven years for the consultation of children in cases under the Children's Act and that this age limit should guide other types of issues relating to the child. This majority believes that it would be obvious to have an indicative age limit for when children have a right to speak. Furthermore, the majority believe that, if there is no particular concern, it would be procedural error to bring children down to this age to be heard. I believe that the Storting believes that such an indicative age limit should apply in the specific legislation, where there is no specific age limit for the right of children to speak or to receive information on matters relating to the child. In the proposal for a new section 48, the Ministry has proposed that decisions in child distribution matters should be based primarily on what is best for the child. I believe that this wording is most in line with Article 3 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which states that the best interests of the child should be a fundamental consideration of all decisions. This provision will now become part of the Human Rights Act and will now prevail before the Children's Act in the event of a conflict. This is a heavy argument for using the term ‘best of the child’, or – as we have formulated it – ‘the best of the child’, also in the Children’s Act. Also under the law in force, the best interests of the child shall be the decisive criterion in resolving a conflict between parents in matters of parental responsibility, residence and association of the child. The principle is set out in several provisions of the Children’s Act. The Ministry wishes to clarify this principle in a separate provision, so that this fundamental consideration of the best interests of the child is given a central position initially in the Chapter on Rules of Procedure in the Children’s Act. Providing general rules on what is best for the child in all matters is neither possible nor desirable, because the best of the child must depend on a concrete individual assessment in each case. The Children’s Act regulates the rights of the child in relation to its parents. The provision that a decision should be based primarily on what is best for the child is one of several child’s rights under the Children’s Act. Other such rights under the Children’s Act are e.g.: the child's right of association, the right to be heard, the right to information, the right to co-determination or the right to join associations. I have noticed that the Committee ‘bes the Government consider promoting a change in the legal text so that the rights of the child are guided by the Children’s Act’. I will therefore come back to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e563	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e566	I am sure that the Council of State agrees with me that a safe framework around the child in the context of a breakup is very important. The Progress Party is of the opinion that automatic sharing of parental responsibility is precisely anti-conflict. Can the Council of State say anything if she intends to promote a change of law that goes in this direction? Governments talked about hearing children from the age of seven and that the seven-year-olds were not obliged to comment. Then I would also like to hear how the Council of State thinks that a child who is taken by one of their parents to the judge does not feel a proper pressure to speak. A seven-year-old doesn't think grown up and is probably something more irrational than a twelve-year-old. Does it not worry the Council of State that a seven-year-old can actually be forced to speak when there is a conflict between two parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e575	We may agree that a safe environment around the child is very important in the event of a breakup. At the same time, there is some disagreement about the instruments associated with this. With regard to shared care, as the Progress Party has proposed here, it is common – a general rule – in the Children's Act, I believe that it would be most appropriate for the large debate on this issue to come about in the context of the family communication, where this is actually much wider. When it comes to parents and shared responsibilities – I assume that the representative also thinks about a divided residence – parents today have full freedom to agree where the children will live permanently, and also the extent of the association. In principle, this is something the parents themselves can decide. So over to this seven-year limit. I just want to point out that the whole point of the seven-year limit is also that everyone should ‘see’ this child. The child shall have an opportunity to comment. In these cases, adults — judges, experts and parents — are required to do what is best for the child. The child shall not be compelled to speak.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e586	Does the Council of State consider that the judges responsible for ensuring this relationship in child distribution cases should have only a special interest? New elements have now been introduced, incorporating the Convention on the Rights of the Child, where children are to be heard and where children’s opinion is to be given weight. This requires competence, not just interest. What action will the Council of State take? And will she use resources to meet the need to increase the competence of the courts?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e593	It is very important that we also introduce other measures. But there is no doubt that many of these issues are difficult, and it would be an advantage if we had some judges who are both particularly interested in and actually prioritized and gained great experience with these kinds of issues. In addition, we need to put in place systematic training measures both for experts and for judges. This will also be done and is part of the follow-up to this amendment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e600	I thank the Council of State for the answer when it comes to seven-year-olds, but I'm not quite satisfied. And the reason is that the Council of State says that children should not be forced to be heard. But both the council and I know the world isn't black and white. It's gray, with many shades of gray. We know that there might be a lot of ways to force. Even if a judge sees a child, it does not necessarily mean that the judge can see that the child is forced. I wonder if the Council of State would expect to elaborate on the answer. How is it to prevent one of the parties from either buying or forcing the child into the home and taking it to the judge? How has the Council of State thought that we should be able to avoid this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e608	Although these matters are very difficult, I actually believe in adults, experts, well-trained judges – and I actually believe in parents as well. Although parents can never be so angry with each other, I believe that the vast majority of people – inside – will do what is best for their children. In any case, this law imposes an obligation on both lawyers and judges to see exactly what is best for the children. They shall take this into account, including whether or not the child is to be heard. I would still say that the child should not be forced to do this. The child can actually be heard in different ways. In particular, they do not need to be heard while the parents are arguing over their heads, and some children should not need to be heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e613	No more people have asked for the word in reply. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 686]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e631	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e638	This is a good day for self-employed women, and I would like to start by saying that it has been a pleasure to be the case rapporteur for this matter. It may not be as often as you get the opportunity to be a birth helper for a matter that is so important, and where everyone at the same time agrees. In examining the 2003 State Budget, the Stortinget joined the Government’s plans to provide maternity benefits to self-employed persons, and funds have been provided in the budget to enable the scheme to be implemented from 1 July 2003. Pregnancy pay is a scheme that compensates for the loss of income when a pregnant woman cannot continue in her position because of the risk of harm to the foetus. Such a scheme has been practised until now, only pregnant women in payroll have benefited from this protection of the foetus. This is due, first and foremost, to the requirement that pregnancy benefits may be granted, and the employer should try to redeploy the pregnant person to another job at work. Women who are freelance or self-employed have no employer other than themselves, and the requirement to assess other and harmless work has not been possible. The only thing we strictly do, technically, by this amendment, is to say that the pregnant person himself, if she is a self-employed person or a freelancer, must demonstrate that it is not possible to organise his function in such a way that the risk of harm to the foetus ceases. But we are actually doing something far more important: we are saying that the intention is that all working women are entitled to maternity benefits if the work involves a risk of harm to the foetus. We therefore give priority to the concern of the unborn child over the way in which the prospective mother has chosen to organise her relationship with the labour market. And it was just supposed to be missing! From now on, fetuses are given the right to protection. For the Right – and I dare dare to dare the claim that this also applies to other parties in the Stortinget – it will be a significant bonus if this amendment makes it easier and safer for women to start their own business. Norway needs women with good ideas, who dare to start themselves, who have faith in what they are doing, and who dare to bet. We need a lot of such women. And at least we must not let a fear of harm to the fetus stop them. The majority of the Committee supports the Government’s proposal that maternity benefits for self-employed persons be calculated in a similar way to sickness benefits, i.e. with 65 pst. on the basis of profit, as the Social Committee also considered in the context of the treatment of the Inst. S. No 165 for 2001-2002. But for the right to maternity benefits, there shall be no waiting time, as it does for sickness benefits. The majority agree with the Government that a waiting time for payment cannot be accepted when the intention of the maternity allowance is to eliminate the risk of harm to the foetus. In addition, self-employed persons are given the opportunity to take out supplementary insurance in social security, which also includes maternity benefits, which means that 100 pst. coverage can be achieved by pregnancy. To date, this insurance scheme has covered only sickness benefits, maternity benefits and adoption benefits. I would like to add here that maternity benefits for freelancers are calculated as for employees, by 100 p.m., as freelancers are the more often in employment that resembles more of a pay job, but without the same permanent and permanent link with the employer. The Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party propose that maternity benefits for self-employed persons should also be calculated by 100 pst. I cannot recommend that we go into such a change without simultaneously looking at the total legislation for self-employed people. It is the case that self-employed persons pay both employers' and social security contributions at different rates than those applicable to wage and salary work. The majority of the Committee therefore asks the Government to come back first with an assessment of whether the rules should be amended in such a way that self-employed persons are also entitled to 100 pst. coverage of maternity and maternity benefits, before making any changes. Finally, I would like to draw attention to a mistake in the proposal from the SV and the Central Party, where it says, ‘The government is asking the Government to change the law on popular protection...’ It is well that it is the Storting that changes the law, not the Government. It's also unclear what these two parties think: is it supposed to come back with a proposition? Or is it supposed to amend the law now, with effect from 1 July 2003? In that case, this has budgetary implications, assuming that these parties make it clear that they intend to contribute money to the revised national budget. With this I would recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e664	I leave to the Central Party to answer the claim from the representative from the Right that our proposal was incorrect. We are dealing with today Ot.prp. No 57, proposal for amendments to Law No. 28 February 1997 No. 19 on popular suspicion. The amendments concern the rights of maternity benefits for self-employed persons. Under today's rules, self-employed persons are excluded from rights which should initially be equal to those of other pregnant workers. It is an important objective that the legislation relating to pregnancy, childbirth and care for sick children be made as equal as possible for self-employed and workers. Women establish and operate their own activities to a lesser extent than men. A significant part of the explanation, which has emerged recently, is linked to having children and having children in the poor schemes that this group has. This in turn has an impact on women’s career patterns, and it affects the recruitment of women to leadership positions in business. Children of self-employed persons are entitled to legislation enabling the same care to be provided to these children as to children of workers. It is therefore a step in the right direction that the Storting has decided that self-employed persons should be entitled to maternity benefits on the same basis as workers, or as we are to adopt today. SV does not agree that it is right that maternity benefits are to be determined in the same way as sickness benefits, i.e. with an abbreviation of 65 pst. of up to 6 G. This proposal provides for a lower benefit to self-employed persons, which can in practice represent a lower level of protection of the foetus compared to where the mother is a worker. The main purpose of maternity benefits is to protect the foetus from adverse influences, and the money is to be paid when the risk factors surrounding the conditions of the working environment pose a health risk and health damage to the child. This will apply to all aspects of the working environment that pose a health risk to the foetus and children. The risk factors shall be documented and the risk assessments shall be carried out by a doctor or a midwife. For the purposes of the pregnancy check, this means that there is a risk assessment similar to that currently carried out against workers, which is also now to be carried out against self-employed persons. This must not be regarded as a disease but as the right of the child to be protected from harmful effects in pregnancy. It is unreasonable for the self-employed to have to take out a voluntary supplementary insurance in order to receive 100 pst. disbursement. This insurance must be provided four weeks before the social security case occurs – i.e. four weeks before risk factors are documented. Risk factors in relation to the foetus are usually present before becoming pregnant, and it is not really possible to defend working for four weeks. The usual thing is that workers are taken out of work as soon as they are pregnant. Self-employed people will not have the same opportunities here, if they do not have very good economic opportunities. Self-employed women must then have an insurance scheme as long as they are of childbearing age, in order to be on the safe side. This may mean that someone seems to have to work the four weeks, in a harmful environment, as I said before, for economic reasons. We all in the committee want more women to set up businesses. This would have been a type of organisation that could remove the threshold for women to create a job, while at the same time increasing the safety of pregnancy. Maternity money is a little comprehensive. As a midwife in maternity care, I have had only a few women who have used this scheme. This is not a costly legislative change, and it is totally unpredictable. 65 pst. is a step in the right direction to make legislation in this area consistent, irrespective of the form of employment relations. SV wants to equalise pregnant workers and pregnant self-employed workers, and makes proposals together with the Centre Party on 100 pst. the coverage of maternity benefits. Social security benefits shall also be treated in the same way between employees and self-employed persons. We'll get back to this in the family message. So I'm going to take up the proposal, which we're dealing with with the Senter Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e690	May Hansen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e693	The right spokeswoman said that it was a pleasure to be a maternity worker in this matter. It is a pleasure that I would like to be allowed to share, as it was the centre party that first promoted the proposal in Document No. 8:81 for 2001-2002, which forms the basis of the proposition we are discussing today. I think it is an important proposal that we are dealing with today, and which is endorsed, namely the principle that, when maritime workers are exposed to a risk in a working life during pregnancy, which means that there may be a risk to the unborn child, they must also have the same protection as any worker has. It is not about the rights of workers or seafaring traders, but it is about the right of the foetus to be protected either by the mother as a worker or by sea. It is important, and it is good that today it is laid down as a principle on the part of the Storting. Like the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party has wanted 100 pst to be given for seafaring traders. coverage in relation to maternity benefits. We therefore propose this together with SV here today. I understand that there have been some comments about the way the proposal is designed. It is true that it is the Stortinget that gives the laws, but there is no doubt that it is most correct — legally speaking — that it is the department that produces a legal text, based on the expertise and the lawyers that you have in the department. I don't think of this as a very big case, and I understand that we're not getting a majority for the proposal here today. But a simple possibility would be that today we adopted the legal text as it is, and that in connection with new issues that come in this area, the ministry also had technically designed a new provision that had given 100 pst. coverage. If it is the Stortinget that gives laws, it is the Ministry's lawyers who produce the legal text so that it is as correct as possible in relation to those concerned, and in relation to the rights that are forfeited. For the centre party, the matter we are dealing with today is only the first step in several cases concerning the rights of seafaring entrepreneurs in relation to pregnancy and child care. We acknowledge that the Stortinget will be faced with a more extensive debate on birth fees for seafaring traders, and we will probably have to come back to that matter on a broader basis and after a more thorough investigation. That's a relationship that can be insured against today. But there is a relationship where a person does not have the opportunity to take insurance, and which is primarily about the child, not about the working and professional status of his mother. That's the question of care allowance, i.e. the right to be home with sick children for a certain number of days during the year. It does not have the option of insuring against it today — in the same way as with maternity benefits. This means that children who are sick and who are children of seafaring traders have a lower chance of getting the care they need when they are ill than children of workers have. This is a matter that the Central Party believes should be corrected, as a step 2 in the debate on increasing the rights of maritime operators and as an important part of the debate on getting more women – not least – to start their own business and have the opportunity and the willingness to invest in it. For this reason, the Centre Party has recently made a proposal for the right to benefits in kind for seafarers, a proposal that will hopefully be considered during the harvest session. Here we look forward to the same willingness to negotiate and the same goodwill on the part of the majority of the population as today's proposal on maternity benefits has been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e710	The left is not a member of the committee and therefore has not been given the opportunity to express its views on this matter through the discussion there. But very much of what the representative Arnstad said in his statement, is the view that the left-hand parts. I want to focus a little bit on what's going on creating my own business. One of the major challenges we have today is to create new jobs for all those who today experience losing their jobs. After the Left’s view, today’s social security system needs to be adjusted so that self-employed workers are also taken care of – in line with traditional workers. The issue we are dealing with today is a small but important step towards greater justice between the addition and self-employed. The left will have several such reforms that will make it easier, especially for women, to start and run for themselves. This is important for the individual, but not least for Norway in the future. We need more people who want to create a job for themselves and others. And we look forward to considering the proposal put forward by the representative Arnstad. The left would also like to see the coverage of maternity money and birth money blow up the 65 pst ceiling that is now in force, and that is not entirely fair. We are pleased that a group committee asks the government to assess this. The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party are taking a step further by proposing this today - it is the opposition party's privilege to take a few more steps. But not least it has an economic effect in this matter, and the difference between the two proposals does not have to be so much in practice. We need more children, but in the situation we are today, we also need a lot of new jobs. We in the Left hope that the Government will work quickly with the assessment of today's rules, because we simply need more jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e723	This is a matter of justice and equal rights for all women who have children. Therefore, we are pleased to note that there is such a wide dissension about giving self-employed workers and freelancers the right to maternity benefits. The aim must be for Norway to have good social security systems enabling the combination of childbirth and professional work. Women must be able to combine a professional career with childcare and, in particular, it is important to encourage women to pursue their own activities. Rights relating to pregnancy, childbirth and childcare are essential in this context. Now the trip has finally come to the conclusion that self-employed women are also entitled to maternity benefits, if they have a job that could lead to a risk to the well-being of the foetus. This is a right that has so far been reserved for employees. That is why this also implies an important principle, namely that the protection of the foetus from adverse influences should not depend on whether the mother is an employee or self-employed person. Until now, employees have had a right that self-employed persons have not had. Thereafter, all women in employment, on the basis of the Government's proposal, shall be able to claim maternity benefits. The new scheme, which shall apply from 1 July of this year, grants all pregnant women the right to maternity benefits if there is a medical basis for it. The reason why this scheme has previously only been applied to employees may be that self-employed and freelancers have no employer. The new scheme has been set up in such a way that self-employed persons are calculated maternity benefits in the same way as sickness benefits, by 65 pst. on the basis of performance, but without waiting time. However, it is important that one does not confuse maternity benefits with sickness benefits, which are provided if the woman is unemployed because of illness. Allowances for self-employed persons will be 65 pst. of the income up to 6 G, as opposed to workers, entitled to 100 pst. This difference has, among other things: the context in which traders pay lower social security contributions and employers' contributions than workers. It is also possible to take out supplementary insurance in the social security system. But this is a first step in the right direction for self-employed people. However, a minority in the Committee takes full action and proposes that self-employed persons be entitled to 100 pst. coverage of maternity benefits already now. It is in so far a good thing to propose something as long as it does not get a majority. However, the parties that make up the majority of the Committee, including the Christian People's Party, consider it necessary to address this issue in a broader context before a decision is taken. Therefore, we ask the Government to further assess whether self-employed persons should be entitled to 100 pst. coverage in the case of maternity and maternity benefits, irrespective of whether or not insurance for the purchase of property is taken. I also refer to the treatment of the family message, where it is said that you will take a closer look at the self-employed's rights in relation to pregnancy, childbirth and childcare. That is why we also come back to this issue in the autumn in connection with the treatment of the family message.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e738	For me, it is important that all women should be able to combine a professional career with childcare, and it is also important to stimulate women to pursue their own activities. Rights relating to pregnancy, childbirth and childcare are important in this context. I am pleased that self-employed women are now entitled to maternity benefits if they have a job that could lead to a risk to the well-being of the foetus. This is a right that has so far been reserved for employees. The protection of the foetus against adverse effects shall not depend on whether the mother is an employee or self-employed person. Allowances for self-employed persons will be 65 pst. of the income up to 6 G, as opposed to workers, entitled to 100 pst. This difference has, as others have said before me, among other things. the context in which traders pay lower social security contributions and lower employers' contributions than workers. However, traders can achieve 100 pst. coverage by taking out a voluntary supplementary insurance. Supplementary insurance now includes maternity benefits. The minority in the Committee proposes that self-employed persons be entitled to 100 pst. the coverage of maternity benefits. I'm glad that the majority sees the need to first address this issue in a slightly broader context. The majority ask the Government to further assess whether self-employed persons should be entitled to 100 pst. coverage in the case of maternity and maternity benefits, irrespective of whether supplementary insurance has been taken. In the family message, I have notified referring to the Sem-Declaration that I want to take a closer look at the self-employed's rights in relation to pregnancy, childbirth and childcare. I am in the process of setting up a working group to address these issues on a broad basis. The relationship between the social rights and the charging system for self-employed persons will be an important element of this investigation. As part of my work, I will organise this autumn a seminar to get input from stakeholders, such as the academics, the NHO and representatives from the relevant industries. I have been in dialogue with some of these, and they are also very positive about this initiative. I look forward to the further work of investigating these questions in line with the comments of the majority, and I am very pleased that the majority of the population is so concerned with these questions, as it appeared here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e751	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 693]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e767	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Torbjørn Hansen, who is given the floor by the President-in-Office, who is a member of the Lagtinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e778	This odelstingsproposition is good news for the Norwegian financial industry. The proposal contains a number of proposals for amendments to the mutual funds law, securities trading law and audit and auditors law. The background to the amendments to the mutual funds law is the amendments to the EEA rules corresponding to the so-called UCITS Directive. The proposals include, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the changes in the requirements of the application procedure for authorisation to operate fund management new rules on simplified prospectuses part of the supervisory arrangements relating to foreign mutual funds marketed in Norway simpler interim reporting access legislation for mutual fund management companies to offer individual portfolio management, so-called active management, which is currently not permitted, even if those activities belong to natural co-legislation to provide ancillary services, inter alia. investment advice changes in the investment area of unit trust authorisation for unit trusts to operate covered short selling, which open new types of unit trusts in Norway; A broad majority of the Committee on Finance joins all of these proposals. The only dissenting view of this part of the proposition is that the Socialist Left does not support the proposal to allow covered short selling. The Hearing Officers have also expressed a great deal of positive opinion on the proposals. It must be stressed that the absence of debate is not a sign of a lack of interest in this proposition. On the contrary, it is obvious that the management industry is very pleased with the legislative changes because they provide the industry with a very up-to-date, modern and competitive regulatory framework. Having a modern and up-to-date regulatory framework is very important for the financial sector, which is directly exposed to international competition also in its domestic market. This modernisation has been an important objective for the industry for a long time. When this is adopted, Norway will have one of the most modern legislation in this field in Europe, and it is a very important competitive advantage for this part of the financial industry. Some of the proposals also provide for cost reduction and simplification for customers. This applies, inter alia, to: the rules on simplified prospectuses, on simplified reporting and on authorisation to offer individual portfolio management. This may mean more reasonable and better savings products for consumers over time. The proposition also contains some changes to the Securities Trading Act. Among other things, it is proposed to simplify reporting rules for self-trafficking by employees. Today, enterprises have to report their own transactions directly to the credit supervision once a month. This simplifies the obligation only to keep the information, but not to submit the reports. Another proposal is the statutory obligation to record audio-tape telephone calls in investment firms. Today, it is common practice for most investment firms to record audio-tape orders for the purchase and sale of financial instruments promoted by telephone. This provides increased security for both the customer and the broker. Such recordings also have an important supervisory function by providing credit supervision with access to information that could potentially detect regulatory breaches, such as: price manipulation and insider dealing. The legislative proposal provides a relative basis for the Ministry to be able to impose, in the form of regulations, audio-tape recordings of more activities than normal order placement via brokering tables. This point has been objected by various hearing bodies, including: for the protection of privacy, conditions of competition and the processing of confidential information. These objections have been taken into account by the Committee and the Ministry has also confirmed in the form of letters that it is not now required to impose such an obligation in general on audio-tape recordings. The Financial Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, has stressed that the definition of the scope of any extended obligation for recording tapes shall be based on a concrete assessment of the need for supervision and take into account developments in the securities market, equivalent conditions of competition, the need for confidentiality of information and the privacy of individuals. At the same time, it must be stressed that capital markets are developing rapidly and that it may also be beneficial for market players that authorities have legal frameworks in order to be able to implement measures that may, in some situations, be appropriate to increase confidence in the capital market. Other changes to this law and to the law on audit and auditors are not widely and unanimously supported by the Committee. In many debates, the Storting has underlined the need for a strong Norwegian financial industry. These legislative proposals represent a significant simplification and improvement of legislation and increase the competitiveness of the administrative sector. The proposals are also of benefit to Norwegian savers, who can achieve both lower costs and better quality of the products they are offered in the Norwegian capital market.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e831	The rapporteur has made a very thorough presentation of the Committee's position, which is largely unanimous. I would therefore just like to add a few comments to a point, and this concerns § 9-7, which relates to sound recording. The Progress Party proposes a limited adjustment of the base to avoid the obligation to make audio recordings of calls that are irrelevant to the control needs. We believe that the Ministry's proposed basis is so broad that it could in practice mean that all telephone lines in, for example, a brokerage firm have to be recorded on tape if the home is fully used. This will mean that a very large number of calls, which are authorities and others entirely unsolicited, will be recorded on tapes and stored for a long time. Regardless of safety requirements, it is not possible to secure a hundred percent against such calls being intercepted in retrospect. The Progress Party believes that audio recordings to the extent proposed in the proposal will in any case not guarantee that illegalities do not occur in telephone calls to and from undertakings. With this comment, I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e844	The representative, Siv Jensen, has taken up the proposal she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 694]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e861	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the rapporteur of the matter, 5 minutes to each of the other groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Heidi Grande Røys, who has the floor for the President of the Court, who is a member of the Lamentations Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e872	The Committee has examined the Government's proposal for a law on money laundering. A joint committee supports the introduction of such a law and the main measures to combat the laundering of proceeds from criminal offences proposed by the Government. However, a minority, the representatives of the Progress Party, SV, the Center Party and the Coastal Party, do not support the Government’s proposal to make the legislation applicable also in the event of suspicion of terrorist financing or criminal offences §147 a and b. There are also some individual proposals from the parties in the committee. On two points, the Committee has accepted amendments to the Government's proposals. Firstly, the Committee points out that in relation to the requirement to register real owners, there was a difference in the wording between the bill and the recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force, FATF. The Committee believes that it is important to follow up the FATF's recommendations, and that knowing the real owners of the values that are being managed is a requirement that it should be possible to reveal the behindrs, and that the recording of such information should have some meaning. The Committee believes that the Government's proposal would have led to a weaker investigation obligation in this case, and has proposed an amendment to the Money Laundering Act § 6, fourth paragraph. In addition, the Committee would like to make written and electronic identification equivalent. The government opens its proposal to do so in a future regulation, but a co-conspirator's committee wants to be fixed already now that such an equalization position is to be implemented. The Committee believes that an electronically qualified certificate is a safe form of identification and that it is important not to put obstacles in the way of further development of this concept. The Committee therefore proposes that, by the end of 2003, the Government should make the necessary proposals in order to achieve equality in this field. In recent years, a progressive deregulation of financial markets has been implemented. This decline of governance, combined with a strong increase in the flow of capital in and between countries, has created greater room for action for those who want to move on black money. It has been easier to conceal the source of the proceeds of criminal offences in financial systems. The liberalisation of the world economy has created a tougher competitive pressure, which in turn lowers the threshold to go to illegal acts to keep your head above the water. These are trends that we need to take very seriously, and which clearly show why strict and effective measures against economic crime in general and money laundering are now important. The law we're now passing is not directed towards old ladies who have a few thousand pieces in the mattress. We need a tougher anti-laundering code to hit those who spend a lot of money on some of the most cruel forms of crime we know. International criminal networks are growing in power and have made prostitution, trafficking in women and children, and drug trafficking and weapons for some of the world’s most innovative ‘nutritional pathways’. The profitability of such activities depends entirely on the existence of effective methods of whitewashing and the use of illicit drugs in countries such as Norway. Laws of the kind we manage here will contain border orders between the scope of effective measures and privacy concerns. This can sometimes create difficult problem settings. The Committee agrees with the Government that the obligation to investigate and report is extended to a number of new groups. The Committee also agrees that the specific obligations of ecocrim in money laundering matters will now be removed. The latter has, among other things: they are added to the financial industry protested against. It is of great importance that Ecocrim adheres to its obligation to delete information and that the work of the Control Committee on Anti-money Laundering measures is facilitated. It is important, however, to point out that there is a clear criterion for what is going on in order to dissuade the suspicion of money laundering, and that, therefore, for most people, there is not much to do in order to stay out of suspicion. No one needs to buy a car with the money in a plastic bag or with a bank card from Nauru. The fact that the anti-money laundering legislation is designed to provide effective action in the event of such clearly defined suspicions is the background to our strong concern that the Government, and now the majority of the Committee on Finance, wants to make the money laundering law applicable also to the fight against terrorism. While the anti-laundering law is, therefore, aimed at a type of crime that is relatively clearly defined, and countering the use of funds from criminal offences that have already been committed, terrorism is a completely different issue. Terrorist legislation has been strongly criticised for its lack of precise definitions of what can be regarded as terrorism and its contribution to terrorism, for its unclear nature as to the cause of who could be suspected of contributing to terrorist activity, and for the fact that there will be great suspicions of possible future actions. Our opinion is that it is irresponsible to deal with two so different issues in one place and almost without any attention being paid to terrorism. Many of those who are now subject to reporting obligations will have very poor intentions to be able to say something about what transactions might be suspected of having something to do with terrorist financing. In practice, the current proposal will lead to Norwegian car dealers and goldsmiths looking for potential terrorists. There is every reason to ask questions about the implications of legislation that this can have for legal certainty and privacy. As a result, this proposal has been incorporated into the ranks of terrorist laws that have been passed internationally in the last two years. In several other countries, we have seen that these laws have had serious consequences for civil and democratic rights. SV is deeply concerned about this, and we are in favour of deleting all referrals to the financing of terrorism and to the criminal law § 147 a and b of the money laundering law. It is important that Norway has, as far as possible, a laundering law that lives up to that of a country with which it is natural to compare. Countries that have a weaker code will be able to attract criminal money streams more easily. FATF has developed 40 recommendations for measures against the laundering of dividends. These recommendations are under review and will be completed at a plenary meeting in Berlin this month. It will be necessary, both in this context and in similar processes in the EU, to review Norwegian legislation relatively soon. This treatment that we have today could therefore be a useful opportunity for Stortingen to give some signals about what kind of measures one might think out or consider more closely towards such a new review. Various minorities in the Committee have, therefore, made a number of such distribution proposals. Unfortunately, the Government Party and the Workers' Party have blocked this possibility by walking almost in principle against the fact that the Stortinge should be able to ask for payments on its own. This fear of independent initiative seems to us to be sad, especially in a matter where there is such a great need for a living public debate and for new effective political action. The fact that distribution proposals cannot be made until the issue of distribution has been settled by the ministry is a matter of course we were not aware that this assembly had joined. The proposals put forward by various minorities, for example: on the maximum amount of cash payment and the reversal of the burden of proof are important proposals that we hope will still be part of the future discussion about the money laundering law. The promise of Odelstinget today will hopefully be an effective escape in the fight against whitewashing and thus a contribution from Norway in the fight against economic crime and against the merit of international criminal networks on human suffering. With that, I would recommend to the Committee its setting, with the exception of those places where SV, together with others, has their own proposals. I then take up these suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e915	The representative of Heidi Grande Røys has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e918	First, I want to give the government the honor that they came to the Storting with such a law of whitewashing. Work has gone fast, and it was necessary. It is a good work that has been done. The case spokesperson has done well for that, and there is a great deal to be done about this law. I'm not going to go into so many of the different points, because a good deal has been done. I just want to pick up a few points, including: a point where the Labour Party disagrees with the other parties. It is the responsibility of the lawyers to report it. The Labour Party would like the option of giving lawyers maximum freedom to report on suspicious transactions, without risk of criminal liability. The reporting obligation system is a dynamic system that must be under development. Therefore, we think that there is more flexibility with a general law clause and the possibility of a rule exception than a law text that is more specific. The Labour Party has chosen the legal form for which the Banking Authority, the Tax Directorate and the Økokrim applied. We would like to stress that we see this proposal in conjunction with the exceptions that lawyers' reporting obligations give in Section 12 of the Act. After that paragraph, lawyers are not obliged to report on matters they become aware of through the work of establishing the legal position of clients, or what they become aware of before, during or after legal proceedings, when the relationship is directly related to legal disputes. So we have our own proposal that I'm now taking up. But it is, as I said, a great deal of agreement on the law. We are in agreement with the government party on most of this. There's another relationship that I want to draw, and it's for those who get lost in these situations, they add to different systems that can testify to a trial. I respond to the fact that there is a minority here in the Chamber who make the following suggestions: ‘The decision asks the Government to find out whether the person required to report on possible money laundering should be entitled to refuse to testify in any legal action.’ You might be a main witness or a witness who has the best knowledge of these things. What is important, according to the Labour Party and the majority’s assessment, is that these people are given police protection so that they can do the job that is important to do. They don't have to be afraid to go to court. That's why it's important to protect the police. That's what I want to draw. Finally, the case spokesperson made it a point that we could not ask the government to sort out other matters than what is in this law. The Storting can do well, but I think it's also important that we sometimes tell ourselves that we are now taking the case of money laundering and making a proper decision. We know that many of the proposals that we are asking the Government to make will come back to the Storting, because such work is already in progress in the Government. It's this plurality, the government party and the labor party, have shown that we don't have the possibility here in this room to evaluate the consequences of all of this. For this reason, we say that we are familiar with the cooperation of the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where they will look at these issues, on anti-corruption and money laundering measures. We're assuming it's coming back to Stortinget in an appropriate way. I'd like to ask the Council to confirm it. Then we do not need to make decisions to make this happen. Once again, I take up the only proposal that the Labour Party has, and once again, I want to say that it is a good work that has been done, both by the Government and the entire Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e938	The representative Ranveig Frøiland then duly addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e941	As the representatives of Grande Røys and Frøiland have said, there is a strong consensus on the need and design of the rules of the new Raising Act. Economic crime and money laundering pose an increasing problem that is complicated and does not know any borders. In particular, international cooperation and a similar international legislation are important. A unanimous committee supports the Government’s proposal to extend the obligation to investigate and report. The Committee also agrees that the secure identification of customers is a fundamental prerequisite for an effective fight against the laundering of profits from criminal acts. As electronic financial services increase significantly in scope, a system of authorised electronic identification will be an important prerequisite for this development. Electronic signatures may involve increased security in relation to written signatures and the Committee wants equality between written and electronic signatures. In this area, the Committee is probably a little more impatient than the Ministry of Finance and believes that electronic signature requirements can be established relatively quickly in the Electronic Signature Act and the corresponding regulations, which comply with the requirements now laid down in the Whitewashing Act. In some areas, there is a split committee setting. The minority in the Committee, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party do not support the Government's proposal to include terrorist acts and their funding in the WWW Act. Despite the fact that they say correctly in their comments ‘that international terrorist networks are largely financed by the black economy, and depend on different forms of money laundering’, they will not have references to terrorism in the act on money laundering or, for that matter, in any other law. Money laundering of dividends and terrorist financing will often take place through the same channels, in particular the financial system. In the view of the majority, a majority consisting of government parties and the Labour Party, it makes it natural to deal with measures against such activity in the same law, although we are also aware that there is a difference between the two situations: money laundering is trying to turn illegal funds into legal funds, while terrorist financing is using illegal funds for illegal purposes. The majority therefore believe that it is appropriate to have rules in the Racism Act that can help prevent the provision of financial resources for the financing of terrorist acts and the provision of financial resources and services to terrorists and terrorist networks. We agree that the Raising Act has references to the penalties we imposed last year as a follow-up to the UN Security Council resolution on combating the financing of terrorism. I can't see that this makes it any more difficult for the reporting agents or is a greater risk to legal certainty than to report suspicions of proceeds from criminal offences in general. The Committee, with the exception of the Workers' Party, supports the Government's proposal that lawyers should be subject to the reporting obligation, but with certain limitations. The working party does not want these limitations into the law. A special arrangement for lawyers may be unfortunate, but one must be aware that lawyers are in a special position in terms of client relationships and professional secrecy. This obligation of professional secrecy is not justified by the professional conduct of lawyers but by the legal certainty of the individual. It is then right not to extend the scope of the law until experience has been gained. Unlike the Workers' Party, the majority considers that any extension of the scope should take the form of legislation, since there are important legal security issues for individuals affected. It should not be left to the department alone. Finally, the minority in the Committee would like to oblige the Government to investigate several far-reaching measures against financial crime. The majority, the government parties and the Workers' Party have not been able to assess the impact and scope of these proposals, such as: raises a number of legal security and principle issues, which probably belong better to another committee. The majority indicate that the Ministry of Justice has launched its own project to promote action against corruption and money laundering, and we expect the results of this work to be submitted to the Stortinget. I also record that the Ministry of Finance is working on other measures aimed at financial crime. Of course, such work will continue. As far as I can see, it does, and we'll get it presented to the Stortinger later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e969	The rapporteur has given a very thorough review of the Committee's position, so I just want to add a few comments to a few points. One is, of course, the link between money laundering and terrorist activities. It must be made very clear that the party of progress, in line with both the parties of government and others, is committed to combating acts of terrorism. Of course, we will be involved in improving and tightening up terrorist legislation so that we can achieve it. But at the same time, we want all the money laundering to be broken down, no matter what is the motive for money laundering. I think we need to be able to distinguish between these conditions when dealing with the law on money laundering. That is why this law is also under consideration in the Financial Committee. Terrorist legislation issues are otherwise not naturally dealt with by the Financial Committee. Of course, there is a natural link between terrorism and money laundering, precisely because terrorism and that type of activity are often naturally financed through money laundering. However, it is now intended to focus on the use of funds from criminal offences that have already been committed. That's why we see the problem that lies in this from the Government, as complicated. These are two issues, although they may be closely related. It is necessary to also take into account legal certainty in this respect. We think it might be a bit troubling if not only bank officials, but also goldsmiths and car dealers through this are now suddenly required to be on the lookout for possible terrorists to report potential money laundering problems at the same time. It's not very clear. We do not see this very clearly from the Government, despite the fact that we would very much like to be involved in improving legislation against terrorism. I just want to mention that when we now adopt this law, it could naturally lead to a significant increase in the amount of issues related to money laundering messages in Økokrim. Then it is important that the Government follow this up by providing Ecocrime with sufficient resources. I note that there is only a minority in the committee that underlines this in the vote, but at least I would ask the Council of State to mention this issue if he intends to take the floor. It is natural to follow this up, so that Ecocrim is able to follow up the good intentions of this law. Then, too, there is a legal basis that can give the law application to gambling activities. We're actually assuming that this home is being used. The gambling market can be a very efficient place for money laundering. Therefore, it would also make sense to impose registration obligations on players. Today you can win large sums without being registered. We have seen that Ecokrim also points out that winning coupons are traded and used to document seemingly legal revenues. I also think it's a little surprising that there's no majority in favour, because if you want to fight against money laundering, you have to go into the areas that are naturally an arena in order to be able to trade money this way. I had hoped that more people would support this proposal from the minority, but I note that this is not the case. With this, I will address the proposals on which the Progress Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e984	The representative, Siv Jensen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e987	Odelstinget treats tonight new anti-money laundering laws to help both prevent and combat money laundering from criminal offences. The new law involves a substantial extension of the population involved in anti-money laundering activities. Today, banks and financial institutions are obliged to notify Ecocrim only if they suspect that one of the customers is involved in money laundering. With the new law that we are adopting today, lawyers, auditors, real estate agents and dealers of valuables will also be subject to this reporting obligation in case of suspicion. Much more professional groups are thus responsible for this important work. Extensive international efforts are being undertaken to combat money laundering. A new law on money laundering is in line with the EU Whitewashing Directive and with international recommendations from the FATF, which is an international organisation working towards money laundering and terrorist financing. At some points, the Racism Act goes beyond what is required by international rules. This applies, inter alia, to: with regard to transactions of valuables with cash payments. Under EU rules, the limit is set at EUR 15 000, about EUR 15 000. NOK 12 000, whereas in the Whitewashing Act a limit of NOK 40000 is set. It is positive that the amount is set relatively low, because it should be an easy matter to pay for valuables through the general banking system. Nor should there be any burden on dealers who receive more than NOK 40000 in cash, that they are subject to certain obligations in relation to the legislation on money laundering. It is clear that just such cash transactions could lead to a money laundering risk. It is gratifying that there is broad political agreement on the vast majority of points in the Government's legislative proposals. The Government bill includes a number of references to the financing of terrorism and to matters covered by the Criminal Law § 147 a and b. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Government Parties and the Workers' Party, joins the Government's assessments in this respect. This is in line with Norway's obligations under the United Nations Convention on Terrorist Financing of 9 December 1999. Furthermore, the secure identification of customers is a fundamental prerequisite for an effective fight against the laundering of the proceeds of criminal acts. While an overall committee mainly supports the Government’s proposal to extend the requirement of identity control, the Committee wants to go beyond the Government in terms of assimilation of written and electronic signatures. A prerequisite for this must be that the identification requirements for issuing electronic identification in the electronic signature law are brought into line with the identification requirements of the money laundering law. An overall committee proposes that the Government should make the necessary proposals to assimilate written and electronic signatures. In the opinion of the Whitewashing Act, the minority in the Committee, consisting of the Progress Party, SV, the Coastal Party and the Centre Party, proposes to oblige the Government to investigate far-reaching measures to combat economic crime in relation to the Raising Act. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Government Parties and the Workers' Party, do not support the proposed measures with all the investigations that it will lead to in this process, because it raises a number of fundamental questions relating to legal certainty and the organisation of the work of police and prosecution authorities. As mentioned earlier this evening, the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has set up its own project, the Joly project, which is responsible for promoting proposals for action against corruption and money laundering, and the Stortinget will have ample opportunity to discuss further action against corruption and money laundering later on. Finally, effective anti-money laundering legislation is also an important contribution to the profitability of other international crime. Thus, effective anti-money laundering legislation is also an important contribution to the fight against drug trafficking and the pornography and prostitution industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1009	The world is facing completely different challenges than a few years ago. Organized crime is taking place in several countries, not least in third-world countries. Through hidden networks, professional criminals are able to create secret structures across other countries' legislation and police resources. In several countries, pure mafia structures are developed, whereby politicians, judges and police officers are polled, and where witnesses are threatened with silence through the hidden structures of power. Very much is about spending money in a way that causes other people to suffer, and not least to hide such resources and like to get them back up as white money in legal business structures. In addition, we know that terrorism is funded through many of the same organised structures. Kofi Annan should have said that the greatest international challenges are countries with weak legitimacy, terrorism and organised crime using warlike instruments. In this image we must not become naive, while we must take care of the fundamental legal security traditions that characterize our legal order and our democracy. The fight against organised crime, corruption and money laundering is in many ways one of the most important challenges facing international society. These three elements are in many ways the heads of today's trolls, the international crime. I am proud, therefore, that our government in parallel brings forward three major acts in this area, in order to take such crimes seriously, but not least to show the rest of the world that the fight against crime must be defeated by the most modern laws. At the same time, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have taken down a special project under the leadership of former French judge Eva Joly, just to show that Norway is going to be the best country in the world in the fight against corruption and money laundering. Money laundering is about money, a lot of money, where criminals will hide funds in legal structures. The focus on money and more money is like the river: the money goes where the obstacles are the lowest. If the law on money laundering is inadequate, with non-reporting industries, the stream of money will easily change. With the Government's proposal, Norway is in fourth division. Left wants Norway to be a driver of international cooperation. The reporting obligation for Økokrim is not about silence, but about the fact that industries that can be misused for money laundering are playing along with the authorities. By reporting suspicious transactions, the same institutions avoid strict criminal liability under the criminal laws of § 317, which, in addition to all of this, also provides a framework for money laundering. The left does not understand the views of the minority in this matter. The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party are opposed to the anti-money laundering law covering acts of terrorism. In the past, on the other hand, the Progress Party has supported proposals from the Government on counter-terrorism and terrorist financing, yes, they wanted to go even further by allowing Roma snooping in terrorist financing issues. When the minority opposes the reporting of terrorist financing under criminal law § 147(b) in the anti-money laundering law, yes, this is contrary to the international obligations to which Norway has committed itself, not least through the UN, when it comes to measures against the financing of terrorism. According to minority comments, it may seem that collecting money for terrorist purposes is not a criminal offence. That's wrong. This is punishable, and for good reason. Penalty Felova § 147b, which was signed in Stortinget last year, prohibits with a penalty of ten years imprisonment the collection of money for the financing of terrorist acts. If we are to cope with the fight against international crime, including the fight against terrorism and the financing of terrorism, we need a broad political plurality. We do, and the Left is pleased that the Labour Party has secure multiples that a possible collection of funds for terrorist purposes is covered by the reporting obligation of the Committee setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1039	International crime is a threat to democracy, legal certainty and human rights. Unfortunately, international crime is increasing. Economic crime is part of this picture. I am pleased that the Financial Committee substantially endorses the Government's proposal. Norway is in the forefront of international efforts to combat money laundering and international crime, including terrorist financing. A majority of the Committee is also impatient on several points and wishes the Government to follow up. I can confirm the request made by the representative of Frøiland that several things are going on and will be followed up in order, not least in international recommendations that come in series and rows. The Committee also has a number of comments, in particular from the minority who have obviously received input from non-committee disciplines. Essentially, this is a matter which falls within the Ministry of Justice. Also there is an active work to follow this up. The Committee is also impatient when it comes to finding that electronic identification is to be equated. I can confirm that we are fully complying with the Storting decision. Together with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Finance will consider a solution whereby electronically qualified certificates and written identification are treated as equivalent under the legislation on money laundering. The problem today is that the rules on electronic certificate are not as strict as the rules on money laundering require. It has always been provided that the proposed regulatory helmet is to be used. There is essentially agreement in the setting. I would like to stress that when the circle of those who are required to report is expanded, it has nothing to do with indication. I want a country where industries and businessmen play along with the authorities in combating all forms of crime. Industries or businessmen who want to hide crime, we don't want to. That is the broad consensus. It is one of those on one point who have been the subject of a certain debate, namely whether the law also applies to terrorist financing. I have some problems understanding the resistance of the minority at this point, because it is not that car dealers, who were mentioned as an example, goldsmiths, auction shops or other qualified persons with good insight into their industry, will see where crime originates or what the means, if any, are to be used for. Suspects are to be denied and terrorist financing is not to be excluded, of course. However, it does not require the car dealer, in order to use this example, to investigate in case of legitimate suspicion. It is consistent with the common judgment exercised, including in relation to terrorism. It is not such that legal certainty at this point is at stake. There is an information that is passed on, which is then subject to the usual treatment of the police, where appropriate, by the prosecution authority, or, where appropriate, the judiciary. So legal certainty is ensured at any point, even in the case of possible committed or planned terrorism. If the minority’s proposal had been adopted, Norway would have been one of the few countries not following international commitments in this area. The United Nations Convention of 9 December 1999 on combating the financing of terrorism, Article 18(1)(b), is to be followed up on this. This has been done by the vast majority of other countries, including the EU as a whole. I am therefore pleased that the majority supports the Government on this point. Something else I think I'd been internationally noticed. When it was also said in the debate that it is not finance ministers who primarily follow up on the work against international terrorism, I can cancel it. That's it. Internationally, combating terrorism through economic crime is one of the most frequent topics at all meetings where finance ministers also meet.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1056	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1059	Now the Council of State should not have to answer for what Ranveig Frøiland said in his speech, but the representative Frøiland was quite crystal clear that the proposals as a plurality in the Committee would not support will come to Stortinget as a follow-up to either the Joly project or the update of international obligations relating to the laundering law. The Minister of Finance also has a long way to take care of the same. We're very pleased, because the point of getting these suggestions done was to get a width of the work that's about to be done. We must not be content that we are the best and the first to have a good code, we must always work to continue to be the best in these areas. I am also very pleased that the Minister of Finance so strongly pointed out that he is, of course, involved, in the work of other councils and the entire Government, in the fight against international terrorism. If the Council of State can confirm that these proposals which do not currently support the Government's proposals will nevertheless be relevant and included in the discussions and work that the Government is about to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1068	I can confirm on a general basis and in this case in particular that the Government has a lot of investigative work going on that it is not required to do by the Storting, either by a majority or by a minority, to say so, even though the nature of the imposed is slightly different in that way. There is widespread international work in this area, and the whole point of counter-terrorism is that countries have quite similar rules. This is one of those areas where the fight against crime really has to be organized internationally. I can confirm that several proposals are coming and coming. But there must be a balance here all the time, not least in relation to legal certainty, and that is what we are doing in close cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1077	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1082	I just want to tell Stortinget that a few months ago, the Nordic Council presented a proposal for joint action in the Nordic region to combat corruption and organised crime, including money laundering. The organised crime that money laundering also causes, and in particular corruption in developing countries, is contributing to undermining human rights, democracy and good governance. It also undermines economic progress, hinders economic development and promotes differences. The fight against corruption and money laundering is therefore primarily about the protection of democracy. Globalisation has made it easier to hide away from income, while national legislation may make it difficult to achieve life-long bribery that takes place abroad. The fight against money laundering and for increased transparency in the financial sector is therefore important in the fight against corruption. Corruption has been and continues to be a major problem in aid work in relation to regimes and companies in beneficiary countries. The Nordic Council of Ministers has now received a proposal from the Nordic Council on joint actions in the Nordic region to combat corruption and money laundering. Among other things, the Nordic Council of Ministers wants the Council of Ministers to take the initiative to establish a common Nordic education to train specialists in the field of money laundering and corruption, including a Nordic police education. In addition, the Nordic Council parliamentarians want the Nordic governments to develop national actions separately to blacklist individuals and companies involved in corruption and money laundering, and to exchange information between Nordic countries. Therefore, my challenge to the Council of State Foss is that he is also taking part in the work of the Nordic Council of Ministers to create a Nordic front in international cooperation to combat corruption and money laundering, including tax havens. I noticed that Per-Kristian Foss was concerned that it was important to have similar rules, and then maybe similar rules in the Nordic region should be a little step on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1093	Effective anti-money laundering legislation is perhaps the strongest and most important instrument in the fight against terrorism and in the fight against, among other things. corruption, too often money laundering is part of corruption. It's also often part of the unorganized crime. We have seen that money laundering actually destabilises governments and countries around the world, undermines and weakens legal trading activities and large international groups, and it threatens the free and well-functioning markets, because it also destroys national tax systems and, not least, undermines world financial markets. Every day in the world, there is a capital flow in transactions of approx. $1,600 billion. Each year we have approx. 500 billion dollars in drug sales. Here are multi-criminal criminal gangs threatening the free market with illegal goods. In addition, 100 million dollars is about trafficking in people, children and women. In addition to that, we have other crimes, like 100 billion dollars in the marketing of protected species of animals. In recent years, the Stortinget has been involved in the adoption of a number of laws and penalties that increase the penalties against crime, including: double penalties for repeat crime, new penalties against corruption, coming next week, and action against trafficking in human beings. We have been involved in and adopted new police methods, new communication interception methods, including permission to listen to telephones. New specialised police units have also been established in the fight against organised crime. In fact, all of these matters have received the support of the Advance Party. But today I am very surprised that the Progress Party, together with the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party, wants to raise doubts about the content of § 147a and § 147b of the Penal Code. They want to delete the passport on money laundering of proceeds from criminal offences. That, in my view, limits the possibility of exposing terrorist financing. Because it is not always the case that there is white money financing terrorism. In fact, it is also possible to use other funds to finance terrorism, and in my opinion, according to the Progress Party, the Centre Party, SV and the proposals of the Coastal Party, there will be no obligation to report on this. I think that is very unfortunate, and it is very surprising that the Progress Party is not involved in such a penalty order. It was the members of the Progress Party of the Judicial Committee who swore followers of when we had the matter under consideration. So I would like a clarification from the Progress Party in relation to that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1100	I think the representative Dybevig has misunderstood. The intention of the Progress Party is not to cast doubt on this – on the contrary. Dybevig said from the pulpit that we wanted to delete a passport on money laundering in the law. No, this law is about money laundering. And it's in all respects that we want to contribute to the law on money laundering being strong, clear and good and related to the money laundering involved, namely the funds acquired in criminal acts that have already been implemented. But in addition to that, of course, we have supported the legal decisions taken by the Stortinget relating to the penal code § 147 a and b. It should be lacking! It is quite clear that there were sensible legislative changes, aggravations related to counter-terrorism. We agree. We will continue to work to ensure that terrorist legislation is as strong and clear as possible. I believe that this debate bears a certain mark that it is based on a misunderstanding. It is not that we are not engaged both in having appropriate legislation to combat money laundering and in having appropriate legislation to combat terrorism. The question is whether it is entirely natural to connect it in the way that the Government has provided. That's what we've been questioning about, because we think there are two issues, even though in some contexts you can connect them together. That's what this is about. I just want to be absolutely clear that we have not wanted to create any kind of doubt about the need for effective legislation to combat terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1112	I don't think this is about a misunderstanding. There is no misunderstanding that the Government is following the UN Convention of 9 December 1999 in these provisions on money laundering. Nor is it misunderstanding that terrorism is often financed through funds derived from illegal activities. And at least you could ask the natural question: if you don't follow the UN Convention of 9 December here, where do you do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1117	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 702]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1133	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given after the speeches by the main speakers for each group, and five replies by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1142	This case concerns changes to the Central Bank Act, the repeal of the Monetary Regulation and the Monetary and Credit Regulations Act and some changes to the Financial Activities Act. Monetary and credit adjustments were mainly liquidated in the 1980s, and monetary adjustments were phased out gradually during the 1980s and 1990s. Therefore, the repeal of these laws contributes to a clean-up of the law. However, some elements are still considered to be up-to-date and are therefore proposed. The Committee is essentially united on these proposals. The amendments to the Central Bank Act are a natural modernisation of the law and an adaptation to international developments. There is an overall committee that is in place to legislate that Norway’s Bank should inform the public about the assessments that have been the basis for, among others. interest rate decisions. It has been put up for greater transparency in recent years. It is a development that the Financial Committee welcomes and wishes to continue. The Government Parties and the Advance Party are united in the desire to change today's system of party political appointment to the Governing Board of the Bank of Norway. We assume that a new board can be appointed with effect from 1 January 2004. In the composition of the Governing Council, emphasis shall be placed on broad social and economic perspectives. We are committed to ensuring a better anchoring in the Storting regarding monetary policy assessments and their exercise. The Financial Committee therefore takes the view that the Ministry gives a broader description of monetary policy in the annual credit notification. It has also been agreed that the Trustee of the Financial Committee shall conduct an annual open consultation on monetary policy in which the Governor may meet. These changes will ensure a clearer division of roles between the political authorities and the Bank of Norway. Let me just point out, at the end of the day, that a broad majority in the vote confirms the agreement on monetary policy guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1164	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1167	Let me just challenge the case rapporteur on one important point. There are many things in this setting that SV disagrees with. That's not what's interesting in this round. What surprises me is that there is no majority for an observation that SV has, saying that you should publish reports from the main board meetings. It's part of the openness that the majority initially say they want – they want a greater transparency around this. It's positive. SV has been working on this for many years. This is also part of what is internationally the trend, namely that reports are published, slightly different from how long after the main board meeting has been held. But that means that the public is given insight into the decisions taken. Some countries even go so far as to allow members of the Governing Council to participate in public polemics against each other if one disagrees with a decision such as: See in England, where you also have a greater degree of -- let's say -- professionalized government. My question to the President-in-Office of the Council is this: how do you imagine that this transparency that is now being imposed on the central bank should be practised? How should the public be informed of the background to the decisions taken by the Governing Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1176	The proposal refers to the hearing opinions at this point and there are different assessments of the appropriateness of publishing the minutes of the Governing Council meetings. What we've seen as positive is that the Bank of Norway itself has added up to an increasing degree of transparency, focusing on what is the rationale for the interest rate decisions. This setting does not prevent the publication of the minutes at a later stage. But it's not certain that it's the most appropriate way to practice transparency. Now we've been given the principle of transparency. Then we want it to evolve further. However, as it emerges from the proposition, there are various assessments of the appropriateness of publishing the records.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1183	I noticed that the representative Sanner went very quickly past the fact that the government has proposed and got a majority to change the practice of appointing the main board of directors of the Bank of Norway. I would like to hear Mr Sanner's own explanation for why it is right to change the practice on this point, as it was not presented in the speeches by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1188	It is possible that I have expressed myself unclearly, but I stressed it in my post, because I also see it in the context of the fact that we now want a wider coverage of monetary policy in the context of the annual credit notification and an open consultation in the Financial Committee. I believe that we are now clearing up the roles between the political authorities and the Bank of Norway by saying that we no longer have party political appointment to the main board, but that instead we are ensuring a better anchoring of monetary policy in the Stortinget. What is a problem when the party groups are to appoint members of the Governing Council is that you do not see the whole thing, as you do when you get an overall assessment of the Governing Council. Each party appoints excellent candidates, but it becomes more difficult to see the overall composition of the board. We believe that this is better taken care of when it is the King of the Council of State who is to make that appointment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1195	I noticed that the case rapporteur said that there was a broad disintegration in Stortinget about the changes that have been proposed. So the most important fundamental changes here are the Government and the Advance Party. To the extent that it is a broad agreement, the rapporteur would like to say so. But that means that in terms of this important piece of appointment, there's a significant minority in the Storting. But that's not what I was going to do right now. In the extension of my previous line: If you do not want to publish the minutes – the case rapporteur says that this does not prevent you from doing so anyway, and it is okay that he says – in what way does the case-rapporteur see that the public should be informed? The purpose of this is not just to have one annual consultation with the governor, it is good and good, and to participate more fully in public vocabulary – I hope the governor does too. The point is how to inform about the background to the decision on interest, which is explicitly stated in the law, which is also reflected in the proposition. How should the public be informed, whether or not to do so by means of reports? Does he realize that Gedrom and his government go out to the public with these decisions in another way?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1202	I have difficulty understanding why the representative Djupedal is at the forefront of this issue, when there are other and more fundamental questions where we disagree. There is a broad consensus that this transparency should be legislated. Norway’s Bank has provided greater transparency by publishing the grounds for the reduction in interest rates. It is done both through Norway’s own websites, through public publications and through its own press release. We would like to see this further developed. I do not feel convinced that publication of the minutes necessarily has a positive effect. However, as I said, let me stress that today's decisions do not prevent it from being implemented at a later stage. Otherwise, this setting is characterised by broad disintegration at most points, including the connection to monetary policy guidelines. I think that is very satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1212	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1215	There are two aspects in particular in this setting that I would like to comment on in my article. The first is the Government’s proposal for new practices in the appointment of the Governing Board of the Bank of Norway. The Government believes, as we have also heard from the Advocate General, that the consideration of a ‘good composition’ – as it says – suggests that the members should be proposed by the same body. This is as far as I can see, the only reason put forward in the proposition and in the setting to change the practice. It is also underlined by the Government that, as it says, ‘a broad spectrum of societal insights’ should continue to be emphasised in the selection of persons — exactly the same formulations that underpin the individuals to be appointed after today’s practice, but with one difference: after today’s practice, proposals should first be made by the parties on the Grand Duchy. However, it is the government that makes the appointment, and it can choose between the candidates that have been proposed, as the parties propose more. As indicated in the setting, the Workers' Party disagrees that there is a need to change today's practice. We believe that it should be continued. Today's practice has worked well in our opinion, and it has also ensured a wide-ranging board in which members have different competences and backgrounds of experience. I also want to draw out another moment. Today's practice suggests that the Governing Council does not have a political side. I have noticed the attitude that the Progress Party, which supports the Government's approach, is still concerned with avoiding political sides. It should have actually said that they had continued today's practice. The other relationship I would like to relate to the provisions of the Monetary Regulation Act, i.e. Section 6, concerning the so-called Tobin fee. The Government proposes that that provision should not be continued when the Monetary Regulation Act is repealed, whereas the consultation note relating to the law under consideration today suggested in an alternative that this provision on the so-called Tobin tax be included in the Central Bank Act. The working party believes that this is what is right to do, and we also suggest it in the setting. Although there is a strong consensus that it is not appropriate to impose such a charge on international currency sales on a one-sided Norwegian basis, we believe that maintaining this provision is an important signal. We are also surprised that the Socialist Left Party, which is also concerned with such a provision, does not see the need for such a legal base in our legislation, which we can now continue in the Central Bank Act. The Labour Party believes that our work for international understanding of such a currency charge is more credible by continuing the legal provisions we have had. That is why we are also promoting a proposal on this. I take this into account our proposal to introduce those provisions into the Central Bank Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1228	The representative Hill-Marta Solberg has drawn up what she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1231	In the past, the Progress Party has called for more extensive changes and greater independence for the Bank of Norway, by proposing amendments to the law we are now dealing with. Large parts of this proposition are, after all, about the natural modernisation of the law, and not least an adaptation to international development. We are generally in favour of the changes, but believe that this opportunity should also have been used to clarify the monetary policy mandate of the Bank of Norway. The problem with the mandate is that although it is established that Norway’s Bank’s operational objective is an inflation rate of 2.5 p.m., the regulation also contains formulations in which the objective of price stability appears to be equivalent to the objective of price stability and taking into account real economic developments. Although the Bank’s interpretation of the mandate has been crystal clear, the Bank is nevertheless subject to attacks from both some politicians and organisations, on the grounds that the Bank focuses too much on the operational objective and thus does not take into account – to a sufficient extent, some think – other formulations. It creates problems with regard to the credibility of monetary policy, thus backing a risk premium into Norwegian interest rates. However, the Progress Party has chosen to refrain from proposing to amend its mandate at this stage. With regard to the proposal for new nomination practices for the Governing Council, it is essential, in the opinion of the Progress Party, that there is no question of viability and, at least equally important, that consideration of overall composition is taken into account. The Governing Council must reflect a broad background, a broad societal perspective and a broad range of economic thinking that stimulates professional debate in the Governing Council. The composition must ensure the ability of the Governing Council to be critical on an independent basis for its own assessments. It is therefore essential that the Minister of Finance does not fall for the temptation to appoint – we should call it – his own political representatives. That is why the Progress Party has called for the Storting to have had the opportunity to assess the candidates, and this could be done through a consultation within the Financial Committee. There could be many alternative ways to change the appointment practice. Hill-Marta Solberg mentioned that the Progress Party was committed to avoiding a political battlepage Yes, definitely. But we have also spent a very long time professionalising the Governing Council, because we believe that it will help to increase the credibility of monetary policy, and that the system we have had up to now has not been a contribution in this regard. Of course, we also support the proposal for greater transparency on the decisions of the Governing Council on monetary policy. As has been stated by both the Progress Party and the undersigned in the past, it is highly appropriate that independent assessments of the exercise of monetary policy by the Bank of Norway be carried out regularly and that they be anchored in the Stortinget. It is therefore very gratifying that a unanimous financial committee now recommends that monetary policy in the context of the credit notification be more widely referred to, and that, through its consideration, the Financial Committee should hold an open hearing, where the Governor will be asked to meet. So far, monetary policy debates in the UK have often been amputated, and it is not satisfactory when the responsibility of Stortinget, after all, to oversee the country's money system, is ground law. However, it is also natural that such consultation and debate on monetary policy take place on the basis of the monetary policy actually implemented, not least in view of the mandate to which the Bank has to deal. It will be very difficult to measure the bank's performance in the future, but significantly easier to oversee the business based on actual actions. The Party also considers that the obligation to provide services should be lifted. Since it is to be assumed that the Government appoints a competent board, the board should be given the confidence that they can use their best judgement without any interest decision being presented to the Minister of Finance. I therefore refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote. I just want to conclude by saying that with the decisions taken tonight, the law is being modernised. But there are several things left, according to the opinion of the Progress Party, before we have a system of a completely independent central bank, which would once again be the basis for getting even more transparency around the decisions taken by the Governing Council of the Bank of Norway. Several of these conditions we've addressed in the past, and it's obvious that we're going to come back to this on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1248	The representative, Siv Jensen, has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1251	It's interesting to see that what's actually happening now was for a relatively short time back just the Progress Party in the Great Britain that thought was right, namely this gradual depoliticisation of the institutions we have, including the Bank of Norway, where the appointment of the board has been if not politically motivated, so at least politically in the sense that people with broad societal vision and broad societal competence have been appointed. What you're doing now is choosing to depolize this, saying that the Norwegian Bank's main board of directors is to be appointed by the King of the Council of States. So that means that the Council of States is given the primary responsibility to put together a government that obviously has qualities other than that of today. It is clear that the current regime can be well criticised for the decisions it is making, but it must at least be beyond doubt that this regime has been designated on the basis of broad societal competence and broad societal understanding. Although I am absolutely convinced that the Council of State in its first appointment will place great emphasis on breadth and that this will not be an expert board, it will inevitably appear more and more as an expert board, as it has done in many other countries, simply because here one wants to put the list much higher than what goes on in economic perception. But what has been the basis for interest rate decisions in the Bank of Norway is a combination of economic insight and general social cohesion. And this piece of discretion of many of the appointed representatives and advice we have, it's basically infinitely important to take care of. Our society is not to be guided by experts, because experts are also wrong, and it actually happens that common sense – folk-conscious, as it was in the old days – has something to do with it. Criticising the Bank of Norway is a good thing, not least the SV and the undersigned have done so in many ways. So it's not about what appointment procedure we have, but we've thought that Norway's Bank has made a mistake in its decisions. And that's the second part of this setting that I'm going to briefly comment on – what's going on about monetary policy and the mandate. Now it's been two years since this central bank board started to practice the new regulation, and you can see that it's been wrong a number of times. In particular, the interest rate adjustment in July last year was disastrous, it has cost Norway many jobs, unfortunately. Now you see that inflation has become 1.6 pst. and not 2.5 p.p., which was the goal. In times that have been difficult, this number should have been above 2.5 and not below. This means that we have lost many jobs; many Norwegian viable communities have lost industry that should have survived. This is very regrettable, and this is part of what one should criticize the Bank of Norway for, simply because decisions have been made here that have not been good for the country, and not good for the individual household. We have not found it appropriate in this setting to address the whole discussion on monetary policy, we have done so several times with the Minister of Finance. With regard to this change in the central bank law, we simply say that we have not agreed on what has been done, and that this currency regulation, which is supposed to govern the decisions of the Bank of Norway, contains four aspects which are specifically mentioned, where the Bank of Norway has chosen to focus only on one, namely, one-sided focus on inflation. This is going to be wrong, and we've seen in the last two years that the Bank of Norway has made a number of wrong decisions, which I pointed out. That means that what's been important, stable exchange rate, is not weighted. Production and employment are also explicitly mentioned in the mandate; it is not emphasised. This means that, in fact, in all four areas of the mandate, it has not been possible to achieve what was the aim of the Stortinge when the mandate was adopted. Let me also talk about a couple of other relationships. We are satisfied with greater transparency about the decisions of the Bank of Norway. We are satisfied and we believe it is right that when the Governing Council is now elected to depolitise, the Governor of the Central Bank must come to the Committee for the treatment of the credit notification. We also think it is right that this should be done independently of the budget, that it should be done in the context of a credit notification, and not in the context of an acute economic situation or a negotiating situation in the Storting, that this could be done on a more – to say – a principle and politically independent basis. Let me also link a comment to a little paragraph a little bit further in the back of the setting, and that relates to Tobin taxes, or currency taxes. There has been a discussion about whether to maintain a paragraph which, in a given situation, allows the introduction of this type of currency tax. We share the ministry's view, that this paragraph can be removed, but under the condition that one actually got a situation where it was possible to get a majority for such a tax, which SV believes is reasonable, that this – obviously – must be incorporated into a separate law and not allowed in an old sleeping paragraph, which could of course have been done. But it is clear that if such a situation should arise, it was because it was a broad political majority in Norway and in many other countries that thought it was right to introduce it, and thus allow it into its own law. We have not put forward our own proposals in the vote, but on many important points we are opposed. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1266	The case spokesperson has done well for this matter. I shall therefore limit myself to some comments relating to the point concerning the composition of the Governing Council of the Bank of Norway. The government party is part of a multi-stakeholder comment, among other things. name: ‘The majority will emphasise the importance of the broad background of the Governing Council and the breadth and breadth of economic thinking’. I would like to make it clear that when it comes to putting together a competent and sufficiently wide board of directors in the Bank of Norway, it is particularly important for the Christian People's Party to focus on three elements: educational background experience from work and business and insofar as the general life experience geographical background and affiliation Of course, the width of the main board composition does not mean that the goal is a main board that is in conflict with itself, rather the opposite direction. For precisely under different theoretical and professional backgrounds, with different experience from work, profession and life, and with different geographical affiliations, a competent, versatile, expansive and vital principal board of the Bank of Norway can be ensured. We have a long-term country, with wide variations in the conditions of busses, business and value creation. Therefore, what we can call geographical competence is also an essential element in ensuring the full and competent headship as possible. We are confident that with the changes Odelstinget has today been invited to adopt, we will also in future ensure that our national bank will have a central government that is capable of leading both healthy and good judgements in a water that is not always as simple and equally navigating.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1294	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1297	Today, the government appoints members of the Board of Governors of the Bank of Norway. It should also be in the future. The difference is that the party today makes proposals to the government before it does. So I heard that the representative Sørfonn put great emphasis on the geographical spread of the members to be appointed, and that, of course, I agree with that. But what is it in practice today that cannot take account of the concerns of the representative Sørfonn? I felt that the representative Sørfonn stressed what the Labour Party says, that this concern should be a commodity, and today's system works well. Does the Norwegian Bank’s main board not work well today after Sørfonn’s assessment, as he has to change the guidelines in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1304	Indeed, according to the representative’s opinion, Norway’s Bank currently has a very competent and well-functioning lead board. I don't see any reason to put question mark on it. However, when we go in order to re-establish learning practices, it is primarily because it is easier when there is one body to reassemble this, to look at the entire width to get as complete and wide a composite control as possible. Here it can be discussed in different directions. It has worked reasonably well, as far as I am aware, also with today's order. But today's system also allows you to get a skew composition that doesn't get the same width, because there are different political parties that have the starting point and come up with their recordings. With a reasonable and good use, which I am quite sure will happen with the change in the law, one has an even better chance of securing width and thus even better competence in new main board.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1313	It was the representative of Sørfonn's emphasis on the need for geographical dissemination that led me to take the floor. The Christian People's Party and the Advance Party are united in contributing to the creation of a majority in favour of changing the appointment practices. I have not registered that the government has in any way raised the issue related to the geographical spread of the matter. Nor have I seen that the term «geographical spread» has been part of the majority remarks where the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party stand together. Therefore, I would like to ask whether it is such that the Christian People's Party bases a different interpretation than the Progress Party has perceived that there is agreement. Because then it changes dramatically what we think would be a professionalisation of the Board of Governors of the Bank of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1319	No, I don't think there's any contradiction between what's in the plural comments and what I said here. The point of the plural comments is that one wants the Governing Council to reflect a broad background and social understanding and breadth in economic thinking. In my article I also tried to sum up the elements that we thought it would be natural to evaluate in such a context. The first is theoretical background, the second is practice, both from work and from work – I also said life or else – and the third is geographical affiliation. In my view, all of these elements together will contribute to a broad and societal understanding that can contribute to the creation of as good and strong a competence as possible in the national central bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1324	I think it can be understood in this way that the Christian People's Party is really not particularly excited about this conversion. They really think that the old system we've had – a politically appointed government, of course through the King of State Council, but appointed by the political parties – has been a well-functioning, good system. Then you have to find some kind of reason for the conversion, and then you choose – of all the possible variants of reasons – a geographical justification! This means that if there is a member, for example, this Governing Council should become more competent. north of Dovre and a westerner and a southerner and one from Hadeland – then you have as well as competence in the main board! I think this was a rather revealing comment from the representative Sørfonn, simply because of course there is not a single reasonable reason for this – there must of course be other reasons. And it clearly shows that the technical justification for this change that has been made is very weak. For the submitted proposal there is no technical justification for this depolitisation carried out here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1329	Of course, there is a chance to choose a line to try to roll over an entry from a co-representative, but I would recommend the representative, Djupedal, to listen to what is being said. When he tries to interpret it so that geographical affiliation was the only point, he must at best not have followed in the hour, because that's not what was said from this page. On the contrary, I tried to do something for why we put ourselves behind this. We're voting for what we're for, and against what we're against. We're behind this conversion. I tried to explain that this would allow the same body to assess all the main board members. Then I went on to talk about competence – getting it as wide as possible. One of the elements that I'm talking about, and I'm stuck on it, it's geographical, but it's not such that it has some special position in relation to other elements. It's a rough reinterpretation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1334	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1337	In connection with Document No: 8:4 for 2002-2003 the representatives Morten Lund, Odd Roger Enoksen and Marit Arnstad proposed to clarify the mandate of the Bank of Norway in monetary policy in order to balance the inflation target with the objective of a stable exchange rate and with regard to production and employment. Recent developments have shown, in the view of the Centre Party, that Norway’s Bank has not taken sufficient account of the business situation and that the level of interest rates has been maintained at an excessively high level for a long time. This has also meant that the crown price has been unnecessarily strengthened. This has been claimed by the Center Party for a long time. Based on news reports today, it is nice to note that the central bank manager has at last realised this. In recent times, Norway’s Bank has been given a freer position in relation to the former, and in particular a so-called independent position in relation to the Ministry of Finance. This is a trend in the Western world. The centre party supports to some extent such developments. At the same time, the Central Party sees the danger of such reforms implying a possible democratic deficit. For the Central Party, it is important that the degree of popular transparency and supervision does not disappear completely. A potential democratic deficit may be reduced in several ways, partly by the appointment of the Board of Directors to the Bank of Norway reflecting the political composition of the Stortinget. From the perspective of the Centre Party, the present system ensures a good composition in this way in relation to appointment. The centre lot considers that it is fully possible to maintain the current method of appointment while ensuring the reasons set out by the Government and will therefore oppose any change in the way of appointment. In addition, the Governing Council shall focus on the whole of the economy and ideally act as a corrigendum to the Governor. The Centre Party considers that ‘professional’ appointed members of the Governing Board will not necessarily be better qualified to hold such a role. Another element to which the Central Party will place emphasis is the need for the exercise of monetary policy to be as transparent as possible, the characteristics of main government negotiations and the public questioning of the Governor of the Central Bank of the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1354	This modernisation of central bank legislation is not an invitation to a debate on monetary policy and the exercise of monetary policy by the Bank of Norway. I would nevertheless like to say, for the sake of order, since it has been taken up by the chairman of the Financial Committee, that it is the Government's view that the mandate is not unclear and that the mandate has not led to, leads to or will lead to special interest supplements for Norway for this reason. That is a point of view I have not actually seen ever asserted in the public debate among the many competent people and others who believe anything about the exercise of monetary policy by Norway Bank and the Norwegian interest rate level. I am also not of the opinion that Storting's debates on monetary policy, as I have been on them, have been amputated. The majority has held several debates on this which have shown broad support for the regulation. Let me just briefly also go into the question of appointment. The change in the practice of appointing the Governing Council will, in the Government's view, improve the possibilities of ensuring the overall composition of the Governing Council. When individual parties in the Grand Duchy individually promote candidates to the Governing Council, this consideration may not be sufficiently taken into account. The majority of the Committee approves the appointment of a new Governing Council with effect from 1 January 2004. It will be neat to reappointment the entire Governing Council, after the transition to new practices. It does not preclude the re-nomination of sitting members. The appointment of all five ordinary members of the Governing Board from the beginning of the year shall be made in accordance with the Committee's assumption. Different appointment periods will be considered to ensure the continuity of the board by future appointments and to fill the rolling requirements of the law. The Committee has facilitated such an appointment by proposing to the King an access to provide transitional rules. I noted that there is also a request from a minority in the Committee that the Council of State should not appoint its own political representatives. I can say that I don't have any political representatives, nor any personal representatives, to appoint, so to me it's a completely foreign issue. With regard to emphasising the criteria to be used for appointment, the breadth of societal perception and competence is quite important. No representative has mentioned the requirement that is actually there, namely a minimum representation of each sex. That will of course still apply. I can confirm that coming from the Central Norwegian trade field, or Hadeland, as was said here, does not exclude anyone, much less if you come from Trondheim or from Ringsaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1367	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1370	After this debate, it is quite clear that the majority that the Minister of Finance has obtained to change the practice of appointing the Governor of the Bank of Norway appears, at best, to be what we might call a somewhat refined majority. Here, quite a number of things have been highlighted in the debate as to what is important to emphasise in this appointment. The Progress Party, which has provided a majority of the Government's proposals, has been very closely involved in the professionalisation of the board and has placed emphasis on professional competence as a central requirement, while I heard that a new concept, namely 'geographical competence', has been introduced in the debate through Mr Sørfonn's contributions. As far as I could register, this was mentioned no less than three times in that post, which led to that at least I noticed this new concept of «geographical competence». It might have been interesting to hear what competence the Minister of Finance would put first and foremost when he is now given the authority to appoint this board.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1375	Professional competence and broad societal understanding also include the elements that the representative Sørfonn had in his contribution – education and professional practice. The term «geographical competence» was probably not mentioned. I'm not sure if I know what it is. I know a lot of people who have moved a lot around the country, for example. officers' children, who in other words have insight from several parts of the country. I don't think that's what it was meant to be. But I don't see it any worse than that the current main board actually has a composition that makes not everyone come from Oslo, and I have a strong sense that that's what you're often aiming for. Of course, that's quite natural. There are competent people in all parts of the country and in many environments also outside Oslo and also outside the cities and agglomerations that have professional environments in the area – fortunately. So I don't see any problems in following the setting and the moments that have been introduced through the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1380	Let me first say that I agree with the Minister of Finance on two points. One is that coming from Trondheim and having stepped on their children's shoes there, doubtless is a quality. The second is that there is no interest supplement in the system we have today. As the chairman of the Financial Committee said, that is obviously wrong. I would like the Minister of Finance to clarify what is the reason here, because I am unable to see the good reason for this changed practice. This is called the modernisation of our law. Internationally, it is a trend to have more and more so-called experts involved in decision-making by the Governing Councils. In a way, it is necessary to depolitise many of the important decisions that are, in a deep sense, political decisions. It's just politics like economics: you can't look up in a book and find the fasit. This is a science that gives significant judgement. That's the way it should be, and that's the way it has to be. That means that when you focus on so-called expertise, you put one foot of this and not the other important foot that's called public consciousness. Let me then just confirm that you don't necessarily need financial expertise to be appointed to this main board.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1389	No, you don't have to, but it helps. If I'm going to say it this way, I think it's an absolute requirement for everyone who's supposed to have the kind of important job, that they have healthy sense – yes, in old days it was actually called good peasant wit. That's an expression I'd like to re-use. It is not limited to one profession, but it is probably about what the representative Djupedal also puts in having a sound judgement. That this means depoliticating the appointment, I actually don't agree. With my background as a public sentinel – such as amateur and educational in any case – I have learned that the term ‘depoliticise’ does not make what we are doing here; a decision made by a politician can hardly be characterised as a depoliticisation. It is not that having a broad social perspective excludes, for example: also to have political insight through practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1397	I would like to send a request before we end this debate. It's clear that we can cross this out about which people are qualified to sit on such a main board. That this is undoubtedly one of the most important positions appointed, most people agree without further delay. I also believe that this exchange of words has contributed to the expansion of this concept now, even though the text contains different concepts. The Governing Council is now to be appointed by the King of State Councils, i.e. through the Minister of Finance, and composed of people of different political positions, people of different social standings, not necessarily just economists, and people of different types of education, and emphasising the element of discretion – peasant knowledge, as the Minister of Finance said – is a sensible approach to this. It's with economy as with politics, as I said before, that there's no exact science, and that means you have to have someone to balance. It is clear that Norway’s Bank, as an institution, is a strong economic entity that will, of course, operate through its decisions, and then there must be a counterweight. The sound judgment must then be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1404	I have to sign out saying I'm going to take that call with me. But I want to say that economic science is not an exact science, it does not exclude actually having a certain importance for economic decisions. I see that there is no contradiction between appointing people who have professional competence and, at the same time, have broad social insight and can exercise sound judgment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1409	No more words have been asked for. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footing, see page 706]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1424	We should then be ready to go to voting. The President will draw attention to the fact that the Odelstinge at voting time is likely to exceed the regulatory time of the evening meeting, but assumes that no one has anything against us finishing today's map before we finish.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1476	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1486	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1551	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have warned that they are going against the whole paragraph, while the Workers' Party is going against the second paragraph, the second sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1573	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1586	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President has understood that the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1600	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1638	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1648	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1655	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Eirin Fallet, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 3, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals No. 4-7, from May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President first takes note of the proposals. One, two, three, four, six. Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to take measures to ensure that, in the event of a breach of life, a written contract or agreement is made whereby the child’s right to be heard and the interests and rights of the child are safeguarded.’ Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the provision of help and advice to parents and children who so wish in the event of a broken life. That offer should be free of charge and free of charge.’;» Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with a separate case of automatic shared care and responsibility in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child’. Proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to transform the county councils into special courts for child distribution matters.’ Proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and come back with proposals for amendments to the Children’s Act in such a way that parents who are married, cohabitants or parents who have not lived together are treated equally in child distribution cases.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1821	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The progress party has notified that they are going against the setting. It is therefore voted on first by the Socialist Left Party, then by the vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 31 final paragraph of Law No 8 April 1981; 7 if children and parents are to be replaced: As a general rule, the child is to be given information and to be able to express his or her opinion before a decision is taken on a matter which he or she may decide on, among other things, whether or not he or she is going to be with the parent. If the child is not heard, the reason shall be given in writing. There should be emphasis on what the child thinks, depending on how old and mature the child is. The child is entitled, but not obliged to say so.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e1944	For the second subparagraph, an aberrant proposal, No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 43, second paragraph, of Law No 8 April 1981. 7 on children and parents are deleted.’» The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e2253	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e2579	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e2589	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e2604	B and C will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e2611	During the debate May Hansen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, put forward a proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to amend the Law on Social Security in order to give self-employed persons the right to 100 pst. the coverage of maternity benefits.’;» This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e2700	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e2710	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e2717	During the debate, Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the proposal contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e3195	The Socialist Left Party has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e3565	There is a different proposal from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 19 June 1997 79 on securities trading is amended as follows:§ 9-7 sound recording, etc. shall be replaced by the following:In accordance with the detailed rules laid down by the Ministry, investment firms shall:1. make sound recordings of all orders and indications on an order basis. telephone for the purchase, sale or subscription of financial instruments.2. keep sound recordings and other types of records related to such orders and indications on order.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e3819	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e3829	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e3836	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Heidi Grande Røys on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, proposal No. 6, by Ranveig Frøiland on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 7, from Heidi Grande Røys on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Coastal Party The President first takes note of the proposals. One, three, four, five, seven. Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Coastal Party, reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to determine whether the person required to report on possible money laundering should be entitled to refuse to testify in any legal action. ‘... Proposal No. 3, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Coastal Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to make appropriate proposals on the possibility of sharing the profits of confiscated profits from criminal activities with other countries.’ Proposal No. 4, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Coastal Party, reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate measures that may motivate the police to give higher priority to money laundering than at present, where one of the solutions may be that the costs of legal prosecution of money laundering are compensated for in the amount withheld in relation to such cases and that the remainder may be covered by a central unit.’ Proposal No. 5, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Coastal Party, reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to make appropriate proposals on the obligation to register gambling.’ Proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party, reads: ‘The cancellation asks the Government to assess the possibility of introducing a maximum amount of allowed cash payment.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e3879	President! I ask for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e3886	Siv Jensen will get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e3889	When proposal No 2, where the Progress Party is a co-sponsor, the Progress Party sees no reason to re-examine the content associated with each and every point of the Committee's recommendation. We will therefore support the Committee's recommendation when it comes to proposal No. 2 is down.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e3896	The President will first vote on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘All references to the financing of terrorism and/or matters affected by Section 147(a) of the Criminal Code or Section 147(b) of the Government’s proposal for measures against the laundering of proceeds from criminal offences shall be deleted.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e4032	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 6 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the law on measures against money laundering of proceeds from criminal offences, etc. Section 4, second paragraph, point (b) 7 is replaced by the following:Laws and others who acquire or continue to provide independent legal assistance.§ 4 The new fourth paragraph is replaced by the following:The King may provide for exemptions from the reporting obligation for legal and natural persons covered by paragraph 2. 7.’» [[Whitewashing Act]] Alternatively, there will be a vote between the Committee's suspension and Paragraph 4, second paragraph, No. 7 and the whole of proposal No. 6, i.e. point (a) of the second subparagraph; 7 and a new fourth term. Then there will be a vote over the other paragraphs and numbers of the paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e4275	The President understands it so that the Progress Party will now vote in favour. The Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e4289	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e4299	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e4309	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e4317	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 2, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to bring an action for amendments to Section 2 of the Central Bank Act in order to abolish the obligation to provide services.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e4536	The Central Party has announced that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e4624	The President will vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The following provision is included in the Central Bank Act:The Ministry may decide that a levy shall be payable to the State when someone exchanges a foreign currency or when transfers are made in Norwegian kroner to or from a foreign bank account. The same applies to cash receipts and settlement transactions between Norway and the rest of the world. Such a charge shall be imposed only as part of an international agreement involving large, tone-producing countries.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e4718	The President has understood that the Socialist Left wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e4731	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Socialist Left Party has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e4743	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03-lower-2.ana.ud763e4754	There is no record.
