ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e82	The decision on case No. 1 which is dealt with here has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. As a result of this, the President will be informed by the representatives that the budget has already been drawn up. S. No 2 from the family, cultural and administrative committees not yet fully printed, but the letters are the same, so that it is possible to read the existing one.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e98	At the request of the family, culture and the Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate on the budgetary position be divided into two, so as to deal first with the framework area 3, the Ministry of Culture, and then with the framework areas 1 and 2. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the family, culture and the Administrative Committee, the President will propose that each of the debates be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Left and the Coast Party 5 minutes each. In addition, State Councils shall be given a speaking time of 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that, for both debates, there be a succession of up to three lines with replies by the main speakers for each group and five lines with replies by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes, in each of the debates. – This is deemed to be adopted. For practical reasons, in order to facilitate the preparation of voting arrangements, it would be beneficial for all the proposals relating to both debates to be included in the first debate. It should be okay. It's just saying what suggestions you're making.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e113	In Pröysen's story «Snekker Andersen and Julenisen» we hear how Andersen and the Santa Claus join us at Christmas Eve crossed some limits to give the kids a nice experience. That's how some of us experienced it when we made budgetary settlements with the Right Party and the Christian People's Party. We had to cross some boundaries. But the result was better than the government's original budget proposal. The Workers' Party would, however, bet more on culture than on what we had in the agreement. As cultural politicians, we must facilitate an all-round cultural life. We have to provide for amateurs and for professionals, and for culture to reach the whole country. Cultural policies are important for the quality of life and identity of individuals. The individual's peculiarity is shaped in our cultural environment and is important to the diversity of society. In many ways, I think we could save the health budget for a lot of dollars if we had a bigger cultural offer than today for most people. Locally, there are many examples of culture contributing positively and engaging many. The government has been concerned with health and physical activity, and here I will strike a blow for the dance. As Prøysens said: «And this lesson you shall see: D's filthing for him as a din; But stand still and feel, then it is a failure, then it shall come to pass!" In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, some 230 million are invested. kr more for cultural purposes than in the government budget. This includes a We wanted to support the Free Fund scheme, which benefits voluntary teams and organisations. When the key to the tipping equipment was changed by Stortinget, this meant a sharp increase to the Freefonds scheme. But the government has not followed up this, and has instead cut into the ordinary appropriations. In addition, the Government has reduced the appropriations allocated to local and regional cultural buildings. In its alternative budget, the Workers' Party proposed to reverse these cuts. Following the initiative of the Workers' Party, Stortinget decided to establish a romance department at the Glomdal Museum. In the past, there have been serious injustices and abuses against this people, for which public Norway has apologized, but excuses are not enough. The Labour Party government proposed to set up a tattoo museum at the Glomdal Museum in Elverum as a small uprising in relation to all the injustice society has inflicted on the Romani people, or the travellers, as they are also called. The government proposed to postpone the construction until 2006. I am pleased that, in the agreement on the state budget, we were prevented from postponing, so that construction could start in 2004. The Labour Party will underline the positive importance that the cultural school bag will have for children and young people. The cultural school system allows all schoolchildren to get professional artistic and cultural impressions. It is important to stress that the appropriations allocated to the cultural school system should be added to, and not substitute for, other appropriations in the field of art and culture. I guess we've all enjoyed the success of the Norwegian film in the last few years. This has provided a good basis for further efforts in this area. The working party therefore proposed an increased investment of 25 million for film purposes. for increased production support, regional film funds, cinematographers and new festival support scheme. The Workers' Party will stress the importance of having good support arrangements for the free performing arts area, and we therefore advocated increased support for the free performing arts scheme of 5 million. kr. At the same time, we are committed to supporting different areas in the theatre sector, in particular where there is a focus on children and young people. We also go in to support regional and district operations with 1.25 million. kr. Through the agreement, we managed to secure money for the district operations. Measures that maintain and increase literacy are also important. Let's go, for example. in order to establish a purchasing system for the prosecuting of adults. As far as media policy is concerned, we are concerned that the increased postage costs of newspapers may weaken diversity. In the case of the Workers' Party, it is important to strengthen Norwegian television and radio public broadcasters by emphasising their width and quality. The working party wishes to introduce a general NRK broadcasting poster, not for detailed control of the NRK, but to ensure that the NRK’s general broadcasting mission is performed. We believe that the NRK must be given predictable framework conditions so that the NRK can carry out the tasks and efforts that they are actually required to do. The working party therefore proposed to adjust the price of the NRK licence and got a pass on it. Before I forget, I would like to address the Labour Party's proposals and the proposals to which the Workers' Party is advocating. So I'm going to pay tribute to our partners, even though I was a little skeptical, because this has gone better than I feared. Culture, as many have said, is unfortunately an area for which it is difficult to get through in a budget debate, because there are so many other important purposes as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e151	The representative Eirin Fallet has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e156	The representative for the Fall was involved in the aid schemes in the media area. For example: the support schemes for the newspapers do not the representative see the Fallet and the Workers' Party that there may also be problems with this, in relation to distortions of competition and other media? We see, for example: locals around the country are getting a good portion of money to go on, while local radio and local TV are coming in a different row — i.e. they are not supported. I think that's a problem for the new media that's growing up, and I'm asking if the Workers' Party doesn't see that the press support as such can be a brake on media development.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e163	It's not easy to be small. But it's often you can be happy when you're little. Many of these small localities actually have a good offer for the local population, the neighbourhood and the districts. They do not have the benefit of large newspapers, with advertising revenue. Therefore, it is clear that for these newspapers it can often be a commodity or not whether they should continue to exist. When it comes to local radio support, we want to discuss it with the Right. We hope that the Right can participate in a debate on this so that we can have a diversity. That is what the Labour Party's media policy is. We're going to have an offer for everyone across the country, and it's going to be varied and good.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e170	We just heard that the Labour Party prizes the government parties. That is well understood, at least by the Progress Party, when they have managed to introduce a further increase in additional taxes. Now I want to talk about NRK. It is not new that the Labour Party wants to impose additional taxes on people in Norway. Thanks to the budgetary agreement with the government parties, they are now able to introduce an increase in the NRK licence. How will the Workers' Party explain to the minimum pensioners that this is necessary, when they have to cut out dinner one day a week in order to pay their NRK license?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e177	The Workers' Party shall explain the quality of the pensioners. We're going to tell the pensioners that they get a good offer, a varied offer, and it's going to be an offer for the whole country and for everyone. I actually think the pensioners understand that. I actually believe that pensioners are not as concerned with tax credits as the Advance Party is. There are many of the pensioners who don't get tax relief, because they're the minimum pensioners. I think they're happy to pay their license when they can experience Gold Rekka on Friday, and when they can experience the Progress Party in debates at the NRK. It's a good offer, with good quality, from the NRK.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e182	The President agrees that there is a lot of entertainment also in debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e185	It was nice to hear that the representative fell the rusty government parties for good cooperation. So we're not as impossible as it sometimes sounds like. What's important is that we always talk the truth and we give the right information. I would like to draw attention to a quote from the Newspaper this week, where not the representative Eirin Fallet, but the faction leader Trond Giske is saying about film policy: ‘After 20 Norwegian films have arrived in the last two years, the number will be halved to next year because the funds will be cut.’ What's cut in film policy? It's completely unknown to me. On the contrary, it's an increase. At these times when allegations of misleading information from state councils have also been made in other contexts, I would like to ask whether this is not to the greatest extent to give misleading information and information to the opinion. I think that is quite serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e199	This rose is not of a lasting nature, I'm just warning about it. So to Ola T. Loan's enquiry. Now our fractional leader, Trond Giske, is very talkative, so he could have responded to it himself, but I'm going to answer from the fact that it's a reality that the government has cut the Film Fund three times – and it's been in cooperation with the Advance Party. When the ticket payment becomes so large, the production aid will be reduced. We have to do something about this, and it invites the Workers' Party to join us in going through it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e207	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e210	In line with the 2004 agreement on the State Budget in the Financial Committee, the Framework for Culture is also adopted on the basis of an agreement between the Labour Party and the Government Parties. There have been constructive negotiations that show that, after all, there is quite a consensus on important aspects of cultural policy. The Chairman of the Committee, Sonja Sjøli, will say more about this in his main post, which will come later, in the debate on the budgets of the Ministry of Labour and Administration and the Ministry of Children and Family. For the cultural budget, the comparison consists of a re-priority of 8 million. kr. This has allowed for increased appropriations for a number of good measures. One of these, for which we from the Right are particularly pleased, is that we have secured further operations for BEK, the Bergen Center for Electronic Art, through an allocation of half a million kroner. BEK is part of the production network for electronic art, where businesses in Oslo and Trondheim are also involved. The activities are about how electronically based expressions can be used in artistic contexts. So it directly intervenes in the whole exciting and important field of the development of tomorrow's expressions, expressions we're going to live with through the computer screens, mobile phones or other communication tools that we may not yet know. Typical for this activity is that it is network-based, it is linked to an unusually wide range of activities, from business to research, education and cultural institutions, and it is genre-wide, from imagery to music, film and other media. Electronic art is a field that is in its infancy beginning. The importance of this field for the development of the communication society makes it a very important area in the future. The field raises new and important cultural policy issues that we will return to in the context of the Communication on Culture. Another of tomorrow's media is games. It is therefore not to be stuck under the chair that it hurt a Right-Heart that we had to cut the price-earning effort the Minister of Culture had put up in this area. When we can live with the cut that was made, it's because we're still left with a significant increase for 2004, compared to what we've had for the current year. This year's cut must not be seen as a signal that games are not an important bet in the future. Electronic games are a natural part of many – perhaps especially young – people's media everyday lives. The fact that we should also have environments that develop such games in Norway is of course just as obvious as wanting producers in other genres. Games are a good channel for the preservation and development of languages and cultural anchoring elsewhere. Thus, with relatively modest changes, the cultural budget of the year is largely adopted. This means that the main lines of Norwegian cultural policy are continued. All chapters are adjusted by more than price increases, and the budget is a fine basis for further growth in Culture-Norway. The ABM field – the archive, library and museum field – also receives good results this year with a view to following up the major reforms under way in this area. It is very positive to see that many museums are now being consolidated into larger units, and that professional environments are largely ending up in the reform. This provides the best conditions for harvesting in the form of strengthened professional environments and better use of resources. The Culture Communication has, by its thoroughness and expressed ambitions to provide cultural life with increased resources, created great expectations in many environments. Among other things, as a hindrance, parts of the opposition have claimed that the budget of the year does not live up to the ambitions of the Culture Communication. I hope, of course, that in the years to come we will measure our cultural policy against the ambitions of the Storting's handling of the cultural message, but I think it's a little early to demand that the execution should begin before the Storing has said its own. I don't think the Stortinget would have particularly appreciated if the Minister of Culture had taken the treatment in advance, and changed the course by his own pipe. In addition, the Ministry gives some clear signals in the field of cultural communication. An example of this is the investment in the field of art with a hedge of Momentum in Moss and the strengthening of the Office for Contemporary Art Norway, OCA. OCA is well integrated into the perspectives of the Culture Communication on interaction of Norwegian cultural life with the rest of the world. The Office for Contemporary Art shall be a bridge builder between Norwegian and foreign artists. Through a wide-ranging initiative with workshops, international studio programmes, travel and transport support schemes, Norwegian participation in international exhibitions, visitation programmes, etc. OCA is just an example of a more offensive policy in relation to international exchanges. The adjustment that the budget provides here is therefore very fragile. Another recurring theme is how we relate to the meeting between culture and industry. At a time when cultural-based economic development is one of the most rapidly growing industries, cultural policy instruments are being tested. In these days, for example, Professor Egil Bakke has raised critical questions about several of the instruments we have today, such as the press support and the book business agreement. The most important thing about Bakke's play may not be the conclusions he draws, but the questions asked. The exchange and the cathedral must also meet the policy in the respective areas. Enterprise policy must be based on cultural policy objectives and cultural policy instruments must operate within the framework of the market. Like me, for example. were involved in the change of line with the Workers' Party, the use of culturally motivated grants in industrial relations, such as the relationship between local radio and local, becomes a problem in relation to distortions of competition. In our assessment of how we best use public funds, we need to constantly see how the market for our own machinery actually meets our needs. This requires clear cultural policy objectives and an understanding of the functioning of the market. The film is an area that throughout its history has been such a meeting between the stock exchange and the cathedral. Film is a big business when it succeeds. National home film production is an important cultural policy objective in most countries, including ours, and the film is therefore strongly subsidized in most places. At the same time, few industries are as international, trend-setting and market-dependent as the film. The closure of Norsk Film AS represented an important innovation in Norwegian film policy, where the instruments were concentrated on subsidies for individual production provided by Norwegian Film Fund. In the wake of this, it is important that we contribute to creating good framework conditions for Norwegian film producers. Here, it is important to address challenges both in the light of the fact that Norway is a small country with small production environments and in the light of the strong international competition with regard to the framework conditions related to films. Another important prerequisite is that we also have to have a functioning market for deliveries to film production. This part of Norsk Film was continued at the closure in a separate AS under the name Norsk Filmstudio AS. This company has continued its activities at the film park in Jar, and is thus a pure infrastructure company providing services for film production. After the steps taken in the closure of Norwegian Film, it is neither logical nor right that the state should operate this business. A continued state ownership of Norsk Filmstudio, such as SV wants to work against its purpose if you want to develop Norwegian film production. Competitive distortion and adaptability are key words here. The government's plans for sale are therefore a proper grip, which we are pleased that we are now receiving support from the Workers' Party to implement. However, when transferring from state ownership to private operation, it is important that it is not added to a purely slaughtering valid where the studio capacity disappears after a short period of time. In addition, it is necessary to seek to provide some important functions, such as the post-work department, where the microsecino is a necessary part. Thus, the government should contribute to a smooth transition through the sale of the shares in the Norwegian film studio, where necessary refurbishing prices to meet the overall need to complete the transition within the film area. Today, the budget for culture is a good one. In examining this budget, the Committee itself, and in the light of the consultations, has, in many respects, highlighted issues of a more general nature. The time to address key cultural policy issues is therefore more than ripe, and there is therefore reason to address the cultural message so that its results can be included in the budgets of recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e256	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e259	I'm glad that the representative Thommes spent so much of his post on film. We have experienced a fantastic development in Norwegian film production, and we are now probably at a level where Norwegian films take almost a quarter of the audience in the cinemas this year. The cultural message to which it was referred has no clear ambitions in the film field. What the Workers' Party believes should be ambition, is to reach the Danish level, 20 films per year and a quarter of the market. There was a discussion in the previous line exchange about some cuts that were doubted. I can read from the setting last year, where the members of the Committee from the Christian People's Party, among others, and the Right says that "there was a cut of five million. SEK of Norwegian film fund». Furthermore, they refer to the budget agreement and that it is cut by 5 million. kr in the agreement with the Progress Party of the Culture Committee. On top of that, there was a cut of 5 million. kr in revised spring before. My question is: Isn't it also right to ensure that Norwegian films get the means of production and the framework conditions to achieve the ambition to match Denmark at the film bet?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e270	It's true, as the representative Giske points out, that Norwegian film has had an amazing year, and we're just seeing Norwegian film is about to swing up to what I think is a general perception of what should be the level of ambition in the industry, namely 20 films per year. Now it is that Rome was not built in a day, and this building must primarily grow out of the industry itself. There I think the industry has done a great job in the year that has passed. Of course, we are prepared to have the best possible film policy. It's not just about drawing up appropriations for the Film Fund, although we're also involved in thinking about a high level of film support. It is also about other framework conditions. It's about how we can use tax incentives in relation to film funding, it's about the tax regimes, and it's also about the possibilities of channelling private funds into this area, of which we want more.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e277	We heard the representative Thommes talk about the ambitions in the communication on culture and the ambitions in the budget. Whether there are ambitions in any of the parts can certainly be discussed, and we probably won't agree on that. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the Culture Communication broadly supports the existing one, and the same applies to the budget. Another thing that's very interesting, and that the representative Thommess was in, is this with culture and nutrition. Can the representative answer why they have not gone into our remark on culture and nutrition, when he now from the pulpit talks so much about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e284	As for the level of ambition of the state budget or the level of ambition in the cultural message, I have to say that I think we should have ours on the dry. I believe that the ambitions are great both places, and I hope that we will get into a good discussion with the Advancement Party, not least in relation to the issues we are going to have in connection with the Culture Communication. There are large and groundbreaking fields that we're going to tackle. When it comes to culture and nutrition, this is a field that we're concerned about. We are committed to facilitating that cultural activities are also seen in a commercial context, and we know that this is one of the strongest growing fields in the world economy. In the United Kingdom, nearly one million people are employed in this area. As for the content of the comment of the Progress Party, I would like to admit that I do not remember it. We've delivered a couple of hundred pages of notes, so I don't remember any of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e291	The right has previously been with and supported the ABM message. The Workers' Party, the Centerpartiet and SV have stated that the regional art museums, i.e. the so-called focal points institutions are important regional art and dissemination arenas, while noting that none of the institutions has so far received increased funding from the museum reform. Does Thommess agree that the regional art museums, such as Lillehammer Kunstmuseum, are important art and dissemination arenas, and do Right in that case believe that it is satisfactory that none of these have received increased funding from the museum reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e296	The museum reform is a very extensive work that may not primarily target the traditional art museums. First of all, I think the museum reform is important for the large and rather small homogeneous amount of museums we see in other areas, for example. the museums covering the memory area. There is a great job to be done here, and there are large additional appropriations in the two budgets that have come after the adoption of the museum reform. So this is an area where the government has really followed up. So it's true that the art museums, it's at Lillehammer or somewhere else, also have huge tasks, and it should be a task in the future to also look at the framework conditions for how they work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e303	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e306	Now many will probably wonder how the Progress Party can manage to make a ten-minute contribution on culture – this party that, in the opinion of opposition and media, only wants to cut the cultural budget. I would like to say to these: read our comments and our alternative budget again – read them again! I agree that if you read our notes superficially, it may quickly look as if we want to cut most of the budget lines. But as I said, that's not true. The progress party is not known to think traditionally, and we're not actually doing that within culture either. Many of the major changes in government have been driven by the Progress Party, and we hope that we can remain within the cultural sector, too, albeit in the short term. We have already succeeded in a few areas, for example. on the rental and lending of art and on increased funds to the culture of children and young people through the distribution of the key. Politics is, as you know, the art of the impossible, and the impossible takes a little longer. But we are patient, we can wait, and we succeed in the end, even in the cultural sector. But before I start with our excellent proposals, I can't afford to make a comment about the sailors. In all the three cities where the sailors have their permanent place of residence, the government parties have the rapporteur, in addition to being at least one of the locations as the head of the Friends' Association and the Foundation from one of the government parties. And then it should be known to the government parties that the sailors are very much loved by the inhabitants of the three different cities. Nevertheless, in cooperation with the Workers' Party, the government parties choose to reduce the exceptional grant for these shootings by 2.8 million. kr. Some money was needed in connection with the task of restoring these shots – even keeping them floating – has been pushed out into the blue, and you have left the sailboats to sail their own sea. This seems to me to be a very ugly part of the progress, especially because these are the three shots that testify to the presumptuous Norwegian time of magnitude at sea. By postponing the rehabilitation for three years, the result can actually be that we end up with just two sailors that stay floating and delight our descendants, and we can be proud of. So to the rest of the cultural budget. The party of progress is of the opinion that much can be changed by the existing state of public cultural administration, in particular and in the first place we are thinking about improving the efficiency of public administration in the sector. We are sure that a reduction in employees in the different units and departments of the department would not have affected the quality of cultural provision in Norway. In addition, the Progress Party wishes to wind up some of the different government pay schemes. So that would make it less manageable. Therefore, it may seem misleading when it says at the beginning of each chapter that the Progress Party wants to reduce this item. We're doing that, but there are thoughts that aren't always clear enough, but that the Minister of Labour and Administration has often talked about, namely, improving the efficiency of the public sector. We believe that, and we believe that the users of culture in Norway will in the long run serve that purpose. But then to our visions in the cultural sector. We have created a fund of, among others. the funds we have removed from the press support, a fund to contribute to and stimulate forward-looking and constructive cooperation between cultural and private businesses. Impulses to think creatively within this area we've got from different instances outside this house. Egil Bakke has recently, in an investigation by BI, explained some ideas about the cooperation between culture and business, exciting thinking, where both the intermediary and the experience are put in a market economy context. Even the newspaper in the chair says this is important and needs to be discussed. The Progress Party does not want to believe what is good or bad culture. We want to let people decide for themselves. Because that's exactly what it's all about -- what's good art for someone, it's not for others at all. But in order to get business involved in the dissemination through different projects, we want to create a fund, which in turn generates money outside the public domain. This could contribute to new venues for the dissemination of culture. Because self-value exists in interactions between people, we believe that the arena on which culture exists is important. A cultural arena is the space that unites people and conveys the experience. Only by expanding the arena can more people take part in both the creative and the exciting part of the art. An example of this is the newly launched project in Bergen in the film sector called Fuzz. In this context, it has been possible to reconcile the public and private sectors to create a fund that provides long-term returns and contributes to increased investment in filmmaking in the West, which is also enriching the country as a whole. In the long term, then, Public Private Cooperation can be profitable for both the municipality, the county and the private investors, i.e. a project in line with our intentions in our proposed fund. Such recordings have come not only to increase the cultural experience but also to give some challenges to business. Such recordings can actually contribute to useful and good business stimulation and launch innovation and innovation processes. The party believes that the business community and the cultural sector have a lot to learn from each other – the business community in terms of good ideas for design, ethics and value perception, the cultural life in terms of marketing, profitability and demand. I don't think the challenge is to make business understand the benefits and not the pleasure of culture, but to get rid of some of the prejudices of the mighty culture elite in Oslo. But we're not giving in to that. In our alternative budget, we have created a fund for voluntary and participating cultural activities. It's because we think it's not necessarily professional culture for small target groups that gives a rich cultural life. The Advance Party wants a rich flora of culture, and that it will reach more and give more to its inhabitants. Culture should be both involved, committed and met as much as possible. We believe that the voluntary and participating cultural activities in sum give the most joy and experience for both spectators and performers. In order to ensure a stable level of support for such activities, the Progress Party considers that a fund should be set up. The Fund’s return shall be allocated to project support among organisations engaged in voluntary and participating cultural activities. Of course, these projects should focus primarily on children, young people and families. So finally, a comment on one of the conciliation points between the government parties and the Workers' Party, namely the increase in the NRK licence. I guess it's no secret that the Progress Party is against such an increase, an extra tax for everyone. But it becomes particularly unreasonable for all those who don't get NRK2. I wonder in how many other contexts a consumer has to pay for a product he does not get. I think the Consumer Ombudsman would have been on the plate right away to stop it, or the ‘TV 2 would have helped you’ or ‘the Consumer Inspectors’ would have been on the door. But this does not apply when there is a state-owned company that demands the money. In addition, both the fee you are charged for late payment and the order you will receive if you fail to pay, not in accordance with a good debt collection policy. I should have liked to have talked more and more about all the good proposals that the Progress Party actually has in its alternative to the budget. I would like briefly to mention Dissimilis, Harmony in Bergen, BEK and others, but we will come back to them in connection with the cultural message that we are going to deal with in the spring, and with more and more profound thoughts in relation to cultural life in Norway, from the point of view of the Progress Party. I would like to take up with this the proposals made by the Committee on Budgets in the vote, but we are drawing up proposal No. 30 under field 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e335	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e340	It sounds to the Progress Party as if the Workers' Party has opted for an increase in the licence to the NRK. I owe it to make the Storting aware that this is a price adjustment, and it has actually taken the Storting every year. The government did not make a price-adjusted proposal in its budget this time. We have corrected that in Stortinget in cooperation with the government parties. But this means short and well two Watch and Listen this year. It's a 15-minute blimmer, the NRK has a 24-hour clock. Then people have to choose for themselves. I understand that one place the Advance Party must take in money to cover the tax they want to give. But then I'd like to ask, why exactly from the cultural budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e347	We have an alternative budget where we actually cut a lot. That's absolutely correct. But we do not forget the good ends. And there are, among other things: funds, various fund reserves, where we prioritise culture for everyone. We believe that part of the expenditure contained in the proposed cultural budget can be saved by general improving the efficiency of the public sector. In the first row, this applies to the administration, and I've also underlined that in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e352	The representative Woldseth mentioned among good measures harmony in Bergen. I think that was a little bit surprising, because the harmonies in Bergen, which the Progress Party will give 5 million dollars. kr extra, in fact belongs to the group of institutions from which the Progress Party completely cuts. On the chapter under which Harmony lies, cap. 323 over 70, there's two institutions. It's the Oslo Philharmonic, and it's the Harmony. In principle, the Advance Party will cut 7 million. kr in this area. So they're going to add up to $5 million. to Harmonia. Then my children's lesson would tell me that it means a cut of $12 million. kr for Oslo Philharmonic Orchestra. That means twenty jobs. The administration of the Philharmonic is known for being very modest and tight, with only 18 positions. That means that the Philharmonic will be razed as a national orchestra. We no longer want a fully staffed symphony orchestra in Norway, and one of Europe's six and seven best institutions will be destroyed. I would like a comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e359	That's what the representative Thommes needs. Harmonia and Oslo-Filharmonie both have national status. Harmonics have significantly lower transfers from the country than Oslo has, and they need additional employees. In addition, the Culture Communication states that the focus should be on harmony. There's nothing to bet on Oslo. In addition to that, they've got a new conductor, which means they're in a really great transition. This requires money. And in order to achieve equal treatment between the two national institutions, we have chosen to strengthen harmony.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e366	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e369	For SV, which aims to work for a more fair and solidarity society, a society rich in cohesion and good experiences for all, cultural policy is important both as an instrument and as an objective in itself. Our budget is a budget for cultural growth. Therefore, a good framework must be created both for the further development of artistic traditions and for innovative, non-traditional cultural activities. This year as before, we want to prioritise more money for culture than the other parties. We ended up this year with a supplement of 413 million. kr in addition to the agreement entered into by the Government and the Workers' Party. But our ambitions extend further. Our first goal is 1 pst. by the State budget. For this year's budget, it would amount to over $1 billion in addition to our primary budget. I already seem to hear comments about lack of realism, monopoly money, harpy money, air money and banishment. I tolerate such comments well. Such an increase means that we want to use about 5 pst for cultural purposes. of what this government gives in annual tax relief, or for that reason 5 pst. of what the same government has used this year in addition to the so-called rule of action. In this sense, we see that the money exists, but that there are other things than cultural purposes that are prioritised by this government. My first comments on this year’s budget were that it was not so bad as fear. I still mean that. Essentially, what has been done is to adjust the last year's budget. I think that's okay enough, even though for a year with the presentation of a new cultural message we probably expected a real boost in some fields. But it's the government's own choice. Then the debate on the long-term objectives and major lines will wait for us to deal with the cultural message. We're gonna be in on that. What about the agreement between the Government and the Workers' Party? We should have expected at least that the increase was significantly greater than in the previous round, when the cabal was placed with the Advance Party. But no, a supplement of less than a quarter of what the Progress Party managed to get on culture, they got to, as far as I can see at least. And what's the supplement used for? Have they given priority to posts they write about warmly in their comments? Have they put in place any of the things that the majority have previously prioritised when changing the key? No, it's been an endless series of so-called Christmas cards, I guess I'd rather say a Christmas calendar, with a price from NOK 100,000 and up. It's many good purposes, preserved, and we'll support most of them, but the priorities go into shelter and torment and are hardly an expression of an overall priority, and bear in my opinion more the mark of the fact that the pot is divided between home and special interests. In the first instance, it was also proposed to reduce the allocation to the Audio and Video Fund. Thanks to something that from the outside looked like a fever rescue one Monday morning, this was avoided. But it must be allowed to ask questions to the cultural politicians who supported this proposal. The agreement and priorities are not a lot of money and a lot to raise, but it could, for example, be. have been used for sorely needed production materials for dancers, with the result that we got more dance art out to the audience and more dancers in work. There could still be enough money left to realize a national scene for jazz, where the plans are ready for start-up on Blue and Smuget. The talents and successes are in line. In this field, we're really being noticed internationally. What are we waiting for? And see if there should still be no means left to promote multicultural cultural expressions and opportunities to integrate minority participation into cultural life! Examples of this are Nordic Black Theatre, You Big World!, Horizon and Interaction. This is something the Government and the Labour Party have chosen not to prioritise. We have made such a priority in our alternative budget within the framework. What about the priorities of the SV primary budget? 413 healthy cultural millions can help create an incredible amount. In this context, it is impossible to frame all the good measures, and we must therefore encourage people to read our alternative budget. So what do we want to give priority to? It's e.g. Sami cultural purposes, Ája Sami Centres, Language Centres, Library Centres, Environmental and Cultural Centres, Riddu Riddu Festival, etc. Here the preprocessors are finished, and we're waiting to get started. Here we grant more money, but we believe that the Sameting should be able to control these funds. What about strengthening local and regional cultural buildings? As far as I can see, there's still 45 million missing. kr on this item according to what the majority of the majority in Stortinget has asked for. Fortunately, then, a majority of the committee has asked for a new national cultural boat to be explored. We think that's great. We've also spent $1 million on our budget. I think it's nice that a majority now asks for it to come. Then we have the ABM sector, that is. archives, libraries and museums. These are important pillars of cultural policy both locally, regionally and nationally. Therefore, it is important that the ABM message is followed up financially as well. What about the public libraries? In SV we share the concerns expressed by some Norwegian authors in the Evening Post last Monday. There they say: ‘A library cannot be measured in money or profits. But we can measure the library on reading skills, on local well-being, on cultural understanding and on knowledge. In terms of saving, politicians are often horrified by culture."Others: "It is our duty as authors to say that the library closures we are now witnessing are not just a policy without vision, but a dangerous cultural short-circuit. Culture must exist where the population lives if we are to survive as a cultural and linguistic nation.’ These are the views we share in SV fully. People's libraries are the only non-commercial physical cultural arena and cultural meeting place in all the municipalities of the country. We are constantly reading about branches of libraries that are being closed on grounds of lack of money. In my own hometown, Drammen, we have managed to lay down two branches that cover each of their own city with 20,000 people. Large loans and large visits mean nothing in this context. Once again, we are talking about a more liberal framework for municipalities. But in SV we believe that this is not enough, and want to put aside further appropriations for development above the state budget. I am aware that these are posts which are communicated via the municipal and county budget, but we believe that this is not enough. SV also wants to strengthen purchasing systems for literature and is on the lines of a comprehensive book industry and Norwegian Cultural Council, which want to develop existing schemes and implement a selective purchasing system for essayism and sacprose. What about the music field? We want to strengthen the festivals. We want to strengthen the purchasing system. We are pleased with the strength that has come this year, with 3 million. kr to. We think it should add up to a sum of 15 million. I'm going to have $12 million. kr more to get closer to what the book industry is doing. We also want to strengthen the tour support. In SV, we have prioritised certain areas within rock and pop and kept ourselves to a clear line. We have helped to clarify that the development of local organiserships must be one of the music policy objectives. We have backed up the increase in festivals, and we have contributed to the future evaluation of festivals according to several objective criteria. In addition, we have proposed funds for organiser development. So far we're alone on this. SV would like to signal with this that an effective local cultural life is important, that folk music forms have their very central place, and that the public must contribute in these areas in line with the needs of the singers. Then to the movies. The Norwegian film area has been developing rapidly in the last year, with new, exciting film productions created by young, forward-looking talents, record interest in Norwegian films and increasing Norwegian film premieres. At all, Norwegian film is a success for the time being, and we experience this at a time when the film has become our prime cultural expression. It is essential to keep the pressure up, keep the main structure constant and facilitate increased bets. It was therefore worrying to read the lack of understanding of the context and the whole of the government presented in its motion for a resolution on film policy in the state budget. The chapter begins with the wordings that I agree with: ‘In 2004, the main structure of film policy will be continued. The main objective is to ensure a good and diverse Norwegian audiovisual offer.’» But later in the same chapter, it is proposed to sell the state's shares in the Norwegian film studio. It goes without saying that by selling the infrastructure company Norsk Filmstudio, one will not continue the main structure of film policy. Norwegian film studio is the main infrastructure in the Norwegian film area. The studio has 100 pst. market share in Norwegian studio and costume films. A sale is likely to lead to closure, and the hundreds of millions that have ceased could never be created again or come under state control to secure a film studio in Norway. Thus, one of the main pillars of the Norwegian film infrastructure is insecure. This time there will be little time to get into the NRK, and to get into the newspapers. We will come back to that debate later. I am promoting with this the proposals SV have made alone and together with others under the frameworks 1, 2 and 3, with the exception of the proposals No. 38 and 40.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e426	The representative Magnar Lund Bergo has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e431	I am equally surprised every year when we work with the budget, about how much money SV has to deal with. This year they actually have 413 million. kr more than what appeared in the agreement. We would probably also have had that if we thought it was justifiable, among other things. reducing the defence budget by SEK 4.4 billion in one year. It would be fun to hear how SV would prioritise, especially in the context of the cultural budget, if they too had to deal with a responsible policy and a responsible framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e436	I hope that occasion isn't far away. It's up to Torny Pedersen and people like me to make sure it happens in a couple of years. The Labour Party's people said, it was Eirin Faldet, that in this year's budget, the Labour Party had its primary budget in excess of 200 million. kr more. We have 400 million. kr, and then we are twice as irresponsible as the Workers' Party. If we meet somewhere in the middle, that means about. 300 million. kr. We will live with that as an increase in the cultural budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e443	In the context of this year's budget, SV proposes that Norsk Filmstudio be converted into a state-owned foundation. My question to the representative Lund Bergo is: What in the world is the problem that clean infrastructure supplies, i.e. studios, costumes, props and technical equipment, are provided by private individuals? Is it not important that we have a private sector in this area? And doesn't SV see that if we have a state-subsidized supplier, which, based on both direct and indirect subsidies, can keep private actors out of it? This has already been a problem with Norsk Filmstudio. There has been a theme for the Competition Authority, and several of the private actors believe to have been kept out of the market and slopped out of the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e449	We're not proposing a foundation. We're actually proposing a state-owned full-time AS. And there's two different things. Thommessen also said in his main post that the film industry had large state subsidies, or support schemes, across Europe. We have also had that in Norway, and it has been a success. I think that will also be necessary in the future. I have nothing against Norwegian private interests taking over the facilities in the Film Park. What we are afraid of is that there are not so strong environments in Norway. And we'll see it as very unfortunate if that offer is dropped, and the services we now get from the Film Park are bought in Denmark or Sweden. In today's situation, we don't see any other option than a full-time state AS as the likely solution to this. The other thing that might have to be is that the government has made sure to increase the pot by erasing the debt that lies there, so that it is more tempting for others to take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e458	Since I was given the opportunity to take a line on SV, I want to use the opportunity to follow up what the representative Torny Pedersen raised, the relationship between the alternative cultural budget of the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party. Now I've looked at the numbers a little bit, and it divides 300 million. kr between the Working Party and SV. You can almost get envious when you see how much money SV has for culture. I wish we had. But it is also a well-known case that SV has taken the aim of becoming a more responsible party, and perhaps even go into government with the Workers' Party. Then I want to challenge the representative Lund Bergo not only to say that you will come down in the middle, but to say what cultural policy priorities SV will do, because today everything is given priority. It's impossible to see any line in SV's policy, at least I haven't made it. So I want to challenge Lund Bergo on just this, if he can reason a little bit for us on how he will prioritise when he comes into government cooperation with the Workers' Party and is going to start cutting off the cultural budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e463	Last year Lånk was ashamed that he did not have as much money as SV. This year he is obviously not so ashamed anymore. What priorities we are doing is in the budget. There we use every penny, and I am reasonably sure that Loans would also be involved in spending the money in the same way. I fully agree with the criticism of the recent debate on cultural policy – what are the priorities of cultural policy? And I would like to take criticism also on SV's behalf because we might not be creative enough to make lines or show conflicts. But we see in Norwegian cultural policy trends that projects are going to pay off more. We see that there's a pressure to sell municipal cinemas etc. We see things need to be privatized. It's a line we're opposed to, and we're therefore going to use more public money to keep these common goods straight. The libraries I have mentioned as one area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e470	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e473	Of the many departmental budgets the Stortinget deals with these days, the cultural budget is one of the best that has come out. In other words, we can congratulate the Minister of Culture as a budget winner in 2004. Then they ask if Culture-Norway will feel especially comforted by it. The person who has some knowledge of the situation, that is, it's rather doubtful. Because we know that the opportunities to bet on culture are great across the country, and there are far more needs than those that are being met. That is why we should have doubled the cultural budget, really. If there's something we've learned about politics in this cutting field between the stock exchange and the cathedral, it's that if the stock exchange doesn't need the cathedral, at least the cathedral needs the stock exchange. In other words, the person who believed that art and culture are only about some spiritual values that bubble up by themselves, without having any material budget crutches to lean on, is wrong. It's not like that, and it's hardly ever been like that. It is often claimed that even small allocations of the cultural budget create major ring-effects outside. That's often, but not always. For culture costs. Quality costs. Professionalism costs. Being a cultural nation costs, everyone knows, also a finance minister. But we have to afford to be. And we have that in Norway. Last week, a research report was published which highlighted the critical nature of public support for cultural life, and the conclusion was, according to the Evening Post on 5 December, that large parts of Norwegian cultural life can survive without public support. It's an old statement that someone's trying to prove. I'm not going to attack the scientist here, because the claim can also be heard at regular intervals in the political environment, and the claim is too tough for half a hundred open hearings on the cultural budget to be able to kill it. One of the claims was that state aid to newspapers and books has failed. To take the first: the purchase process for fictional literature. It cannot be denied that it has been very important, yes, I would say crucial for the emergence of a whole brigade of skilled writers in Norway in recent years. We know what it was like before the arrangement came in its time. It is therefore very positive that the Government will strengthen the purchasing systems, not build them up. The purchasing system for phonograms was also strengthened by 3 million. kr in this budget. That's very good. So to the support of the papers. Nor can anyone deny that the press support has contributed to the fact that in small Norway we have a large flora of different newspapers, from the small localities, the nationally distributed opinion papers and no. The 2 newspapers, in addition to the major regional and national newspapers. The Norwegian people have been described as the world's most newsreading people. We believe this has great value, not least for our democracy. That is why we are pleased that there has been a willingness to maintain production aid in the budget at the same level in recent years. It should also be on in the future. Newspaper Norway will face major additional challenges in terms of increased postage expenditure in the coming period. The production aid will not extend to compensate for these port increases. Therefore, it is important that public authorities contribute to finding solutions to this, so that we can prevent many from being destroyed. The public support comprises several media. Not least, film support is important, as many people here today have pointed out. In next year's budget it has continued with a slight increase. As is known, in recent years Norway has seen a significant increase in the production of high-quality films, which have attracted many to cinemas. This has led to a debate on the so-called ticket payment to producers afterwards. It is understandable that the question is raised when it is perceived that the success films, because of the ticket support, are leaving farms with funds that would preferably be retained for new productions. Nevertheless, I would warn against any changes in this distribution that will help to weaken the incentives of the scheme in the context of the notified review of the aid scheme. Predictability is also an important keyword in this context. It is essential that up-to-date companies and actors are available who are willing to invest their own funds in films. Without these, the scheme stops. The broadcasting licence has also been the subject of the autumn. It is very important and unmistakable as a media policy instrument. With revenue in the order of well over DKK 3 billion, it's almost at the level of the annual cultural budget. Thanks to this, we in Norway can stick with one of Europe's most robust, advertising-free public broadcasting companies. If you don't see it, you must be completely exposed to – let's say – antennas. With regard to the issue of a charging increase, we in the government parties gradually found that it would be right to make an adjustment again this year, as was the case in the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the government parties. Not least in view of the development of the digital ground network, which will provide a major economic boost also for the NRC, it is important to provide the institution with the best possible platform. However, there is no denying that work on the 2004 cultural budget has to some extent been influenced by a waiting and seeing attitude. This budgetary process was not, as it were, a complete place for discussion of major and important structural issues, since the new cultural message is now to be launched. It is where the major lines of future cultural policy are to be drawn and the basis for the cultural effort over the next decade is laid. But when that is said, I would say that this budget is nevertheless very important in view of the follow-up, not least in relation to the last major cultural initiatives in Norway. This applies to the first marking of the millennium, and the anniversary of independence is a new highlight, while it will culminate in 2005. Secondly, the construction of the opera house, which goes according to plan, is a huge lift for the nation. And then, thirdly, the ABM reform. It is also in good proportion, although we are somewhat behind the timetable for government appropriations. But it is no worse than that, with a few efforts in the coming years, we will have come a long way. Taking the cultural school bag, which is essentially a project that will lie outside this budget, and which we have recently dealt with in the Storting, these areas, as I have mentioned, constitute a significant cultural promise for the country in the period after the turn of the century. So a few more words about the opera bet. There is no doubt that the process of building opera houses has contributed greatly to increasing interest in this art form elsewhere in the country. The fact that eleven active opera environments are now located outside the capital is evidence of this. So far, all these environments are eaten with crumbs from the state's pocket. The size has said that it will come more. A national plan for the production of opera and ballet has been established. This must be followed up, while the Norwegian Opera needs a steady increase in the operating grant over the years towards the move into a new house. Remember, it is expected that you can expect a double in the influx to the new opera house in relation to today. Larger houses, more scenes, etc. also requires increased staffing and more resources. At the same time, we experience great impatience in the country. It is on this basis that we must see the closest symbolic redistribution made in the budget agreement this time, by cutting a smaller amount in the allocation to the Norwegian Opera and dividing it into five small opera companies outside the capital. We know that this was very well received. Then I said that the ABM reform was in good hands. This reform is evidence that the Stortinget can contribute to structural change and innovation also in Culture-Norway. A great deal has been done in a short time since the ABM message was dealt with, primarily with the establishment of ABM development, which has in fact resulted in a kind of merger between institutions that were previously under different departments, while the planned consolidation process in the museum area has already started well. It is important that the professional coordinating body as the development of ABM is also given in the future the tools and space they need to continue the process in a good way. Although a lot has happened, it is still a long way to go until the ABM vision is realized. It concerns the revitalisation of museums, the strengthening of libraries such as knowledge and information magnets in the local communities, and not least a continuing time-consuming archive landscape covering both the State Archives, the municipal archives and not least the private part of the archive area, which cannot wait much longer until they also need attention. The whole archive area continues to face major challenges of digitisation. All of this I've mentioned is kind of the basis for the ABM vision of one electronic door into our entire national memory to be realized. But there's still a lot left before we're there. In my article I have chosen to focus on some major areas. I could have said a lot about all the valuable things that happen in small and large forums in cultural life. It could also have been in place and affected the priority problem in Norwegian cultural life, I don't least think about the relationship between the institutional culture and the culture that unfolds outside the big institutions. It'll wait for the message. This and much more will be the subject of debate when that time comes. Finally, I would just like to say that the Christian People's Party is pleased that we have come to terms with the budget agreement. We also thank, and would like to commend our partner, the Workers' Party, for tiring negotiations. Although we could not knock more than approx. Eight million. kr that we could be spreading across the country for good purposes – this sum is almost a microscopic part of the cultural budget – so we still think these means are important, and that it turns out that they might mean the little extra for a lot of people out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e511	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e514	We now go into the third year with the Christian People's Party at the rudder of cultural policy. Of course, it's very nice with a few million to buy the Norwegian phonograms and other small and large bets, but the reality is that we can't see anything in the cultural field yet after these three years. It is in the areas that Stortinget has assigned to bet missions, the opera bet and the ABM message that there will be additions. And then there's one big thing, and that's the change in the key that will bring the cultural field close to $1.2 billion. But there's the reality that the Christian People's Party fought with beaks and claws to try to prevent that change in the key, and they have also, after the money had started flowing, cut close to 100 million. kr in the same areas of the ordinary budgets, contrary to the Storting's assumption. My question is: is Loan happy that he was defeated in the matter of the key, and will he ensure that the ordinary budgets are maintained for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e521	Now it's not true, as the representative Giske says, that it hasn't been a lift. I tried to say something about it in my post. There has been a promise that is kind of a result of decisions in this house in several areas, and I pointed out four important ones. I can't spend time repeating it, but it's quite clear that there have been significant investments in areas like ABM, and it's going to be more on the opera and in these other fields that I also mentioned, and that's what we're going to follow up. With regard to this key and that we should then have fought with beaks and scratches against this – the matter was that many of us thought that we had to do something about this. The state council had announced a review of the Lottery Act and would look at this issue in this context. But it's known in this room that the opposition is always more busy than the government, we have a lot of evidence of that. Here, then, the Government was deprived of an initiative that was very important in the light of this idea. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e528	No, the representative won't answer that, because it's now out!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e531	I would like to draw attention to the item entitled ‘Additions to various publications’, such as: contains grants to Samora, Blick and some Christian newspapers. In this area, the appropriations have been decided by different political configurations. In the budget agreement last year, the Government parties signed that this item was to be distributed on the basis of objective and clear criteria. This is an agreement that the Christian People's Party and the Right have chosen to ignore. What does this say about Christian People's Party as a partner? Earlier today, there was an exchange of lines between the representative Lånke and Eirin Fallet, where the representative Lånke focused on this with honesty. I wonder what such breach of agreement says about the honesty of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e540	First, a correction. I did not focus on honesty in the line of the Eirin Fall, but on truth. There might be things that aren't that far apart, but that's not the same thing. The fact that there was an agreement to introduce objective criteria or at least a new regime in relation to this item is correct, and that was actually the Ministry's command in advance. I know the department has worked on this question. It happens – and you know the representative Knudsen very well – that things can take time and be more complicated than you thought at first. I guess – and that may have been said between the lines – that you have encountered problems here that you need more time to evaluate. But it is clear that there will be a new arrangement for this. So far it is also suggested in the proposition, and we are addressing this. It's not about going away from an agreement – we haven't broken an agreement – but we're asking for understanding that we need more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e548	The museum reform is an important part of the so-called ABM message. In this context, the size was decided on a five-year escalation plan, which is worth 40 million. kr in increase each year. The first year was the increase of 40 million. kr, in the current year it is 37 million. kr, and next year the Minister of Culture of the Christian People's Party proposes an increase of 21 million. kr. There is a concern expressed by museum teams that this will mean that the reform will now be slowed down. Is Ola T. Borrowing satisfactory that the Government does not have the power to follow the escalation plan as foreseen? How does Ola T. Lånk believe that the escalation plan in the ABM message – for which he was the case rapporteur – should be followed up financially?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e555	There's an important question the representative Lund Bergo is traveling here. First in general for the follow-up of goals in this house: we have many different experiences with that. There are plans and objectives in different sectors that have gone down the drain without having been followed up at all. I think we can prove that. In this area, at least this has not happened. It's been very well, I think. We've managed to get about halfway in the few years we've had to meet this goal. I have good faith – as I also said in my post – that we will have a few more efforts in the years to come, and we will be there. It's about $200 million. kr above the level that was in – I am not sure – 2001. We're about halfway in the period. If that’s not satisfactory – and you can hardly say that, because there are so many challenges in this area – I think we’ll be together to achieve this goal. We have also tried to put annotations in the settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e564	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e567	Culture is glue and motor in society. There is a very opaque concept of the value and possibilities of an active and targeted cultural policy. Art and culture are primarily an objective of their own, but in addition they allow for the development of other activities related to cultural activities. The Central Party wishes to provide culture with such a good framework that it will be the model of competition between municipalities and regions in terms of industrial development and tourism. Voluntary organisations have an important function by producing experiences and social activities across social divides and thus contribute to the creation of important common arenas. The centre party is concerned about what happens when it concerns the rights of Freefonds. When Stortinget changed the distribution key for the excess from Norsk Typing, it was a clear statement from the majority that it was not to be done at the expense of existing budget lines. The three umbrella organisations that manage the Freefonds claim that a disk distribution has been created in which they want it to be cleaned up. In the setting of Framework Area 2 there are several figures for the Ministry to consider adding the Freefonds funds to one department, the Ministry of Culture. I hope that the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Children and Family will conclude that this is right. As I hope that it is the Minister of Culture who will be responsible for this, I will encourage the Council of State to go through the distribution in cooperation with the organisations. We have a rich flora of festivals all around the country. Small and large communities engage both children and adults and contribute to community and activity, which in itself has great self-esteem. I'm glad that there was an increase in festival support in the budget from the department. The aim of the centre party is to support music festivals in the long term. The central party is pleased that the budgetary agreement between the Government Party and the Labour Party increased support for a number of actions. I will briefly mention BEK, Pröysen-huset, Grenland Fritheater, Tromsø Symphony Orchestra, Rogaland Theatre, Agder Theatre and Akershus Theatre. That some of the district operas have also received a small increase is good – and in line with our efforts in this area. It is also gratifying that all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, are behind the comment on district operations, which concludes that there is a need for increased resources both for the individual institutions of the network and for joint actions. District operations are often established where there is a low level of structural competence, which naturally leads to higher travel and subsistence costs than in places where the density of competence is greater. For the Central Party, it has been important to focus on the new Norway's position in the budget. The submitted cultural message advocates a systematic effort on neo-Norwegian font culture. It's very positive, and the Center Party will give commendation to the Council of State for being genuinely occupied by the new Norwegian. Our proposal for a new post – Vinjefondet – is intended as an action to strengthen journalism and dissemination in new Norse. Although there are not many for this, I hope that the Council of State will take this into account in the further work, to the best of its nostrils! Several entries have been added by the centre as a contribution to strengthening the position of the newnorse. We have also focused on several measures to promote Sami culture. Our goal is that the Sami population should receive at least one all-day newspaper, and we would have liked the Eastern Sami Museum in Neiden to be completed before the national 100th anniversary in 2005. To the Southern Sami Museum and the cultural centre Saemien Sitje in Snåsa, we have proposed 5 million. kr. I am pleased to note that the NRK has launched test broadcasts with direct programme subtitles. Some 600 000 in the Norwegian population are reduced in quality of life, since they are excluded from participation in much of the social debate that goes through the ether media. During the budget procedure last year, a group committee was behind a comment as a brittle texting. I have noticed that the Minister of Culture in the journal ‘Din Hørsel’ of 7 October 2003 claims that technology development is a national responsibility, but leaves the job to the NRK. So a little bit about the Norwegian cultural boat. I have to admit, in the light of what the Committee said last year, that I was very disappointed when the corksman presented the budget or the cultural announcement about the Culture boat. I had at least expected that in the cultural message there would be a signal about how the Council of State assessed this project. A multiple is behind the setting that the department should systray to set up a working group to settle the question. It's an interesting and important project, which I look forward to coming up. So to the proposals: I take this up proposal No. 41, and then I ask the President to notice that proposal No. 7 not being performed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e590	The representative, Eli Sollied Överaas, has addressed the proposal to which she referred, and the President has noted that proposal No. 7 is not promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e593	After the government's budget proposal was presented, the cultural budget was declared in the press as one of the budget winners. That's left very happy. Our society is a thriving cultural community. Culture is fundamental for individuals and for society, and must be stronger in a life where materialism and commerce receive more than enough of the attention. In the autumn, the government has also presented a cultural message, which is offensive and positive, which is a good starting point for a broad and good debate on cultural policy over the years to come. In addition, we have had a debate on the cultural school bag – an important heart issue for the Left. Then we've got a debate about a lack of commitment and pressure on this sector. The representative Giske in the media has called for greater interest in cultural policy, especially in the media. It's a wish that the Left joins. The debate must be not only a money debate on who grants how much, but also a more fundamental debate on overall cultural policy priorities. On the other hand, today's debate may indicate that the situation is not so bad. The government of Stoltenberg delivered a good cultural budget before they left in 2001. The co-operation administration continued to do so, and has subsequently stepped up its efforts further. So it's very positive to say, both about what's going on in Culture-Norway, and about the political commitment to culture. There are no major political disagreements, with the exception of the Progress Party, which unfortunately still stand for a policy which would upset important parts of Culture-Norway and on which they are fortunately left alone. The party's warning of equalisation and a state-run and funded cultural policy is not an entirely uninteresting issue, but the impact of the party's policy is a strong weakening of the cultural offer, of culture as a force in society and of people's freedom of choice. The many relatively small changes made in budgetary negotiations in this area show that there is a fundamental consensus in this area and on the importance of the many small budget lines and measures. In culture, it's important that many flowers bloom, and it doesn't always take that much money to make it happen. The left is pleased with increased bets on the free field and increased support for voluntary organisations, including through increased tax exemptions. Since we're not in the committee, I'm not going to go into details. I just want to say that the Cultural Party Left is very pleased with the budgetary unity in this area, and believes that the budget that we are adopting today will provide a good basis for all those who want to work on cultural policy in the future. So two things in the end: I very much agree with the representative Lånk's comments on the opera. Last week, the stage section of the new art college in Oslo was opened. It's a fantastic house where you've connected opera, theater and ballet in the same house. I think that should be construction step one in the opera. It's an important connection between the three stage arts, and it's an important bet on the three stage arts. It is also very important that we who were at the opening, observed that there is a lot of new happening in the opera sector – a lot of exciting and very much modern expression of the art form, which I think a new opera building must have. There can not only be entries of old pieces. Then to a heart thing. There are several who have mentioned library closures, which are a major problem for Culture-Norway. I think Culture-Norway needs a library engine to be able to make an exciting development on the library side. That engine shall not be so far from here – just down the street. I have a strong wish that the Municipality of Oslo and the State quickly agree, so that you can start to build that engine. Because if we are to avoid the closure of the small libraries, there must be exciting innovation, testing and new ways of working in the library sector. First of all, we can make a real library engine, and it stays on the western runway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e624	In five minutes it is only possible to enter some parts of the setting. But since the Coastal Party is only represented in one committee, I allow myself to ask for the Government's overall policy across the board. The right seems quite proud when they say they change Norway. The question is whether Norway wants to see changes that create more insecurity and fear of the future in the population. The Coastal Party shares the Workers' Party's concern about the rapid and unenforced suspension of efficiency that the Government is running through, and undermines employee rights established as our welfare society has evolved. Public servants in schools, care and health care are a resource and need to be treated as a resource, not as a problem. When teachers, health and care professionals are dismissed because of poor finances in the municipalities, the government's previously stated objective of using wages as a tool for recruiting these services is poor. When older workers...
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e633	I'm sorry, Steinar Bastesen, but in the President's view, this article is home in the next debate, which is about things other than culture. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e636	I thought we were dealing with these matters together.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e641	No, we don't, so the representative will be asked for the floor in a later debate. Then I give the word to Trond Giske!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e647	It is possible that the representative Bastesen has heard that there is a lot of unculture in the Department of Administration, and that that is why he felt that this belonged together. But that will come about in a later debate. In the vote on the budget, a majority, in part also a unanimous committee, writes that it is necessary to look at the framework conditions for Norwegian film policy. We know that with the success of Norwegian film, the ticket support scheme will now lead to substantial increases in payments, and this will go beyond production support for new films. In fact, the level we are at now, with 20 films a year, could be reduced to 12-13 films because the ticket support takes so much of the money. It was a correct conversion that the state council Ellen Horn carried out, and today's success is proof of it. Nevertheless, we now see that the system has some weak sides that we have to correct. The working party had primarily wanted the ticket support scheme to be an estimate, so that the variations we have in good and bad film years do not directly affect production support. It is almost meaningless that when very many people go to watch Norwegian films, there will be no money left to make Norwegian films for. If no one goes to watch Norwegian movies, there'll be a lot of money to make Norwegian movies for. It's a system that has a clear weakness. In any case, we will continue to work to increase production support, and improve the framework conditions for Norwegian film, so that we can stay at the level we are currently at. There has been a long talk about what would come first, the money or the talents. Now we know that the talents are there, and the environments are ready to produce movies. Then it was just to be missing that we didn't make it right. A particular problem pointed out by the majority of the Committee is the problems of the film industry with VAT. In the absence of VAT for cinemas, while the DVD and video have VAT, producers are deducted from some of their VAT expenditure and from a large bureaucracy. In addition, cinemas are not deducted from their VAT expenditure. For this reason, a majority say that time has come, and that it is necessary to assess a low rate of VAT also for cinema, as is the case for the NRC, so as to avoid these problems. And the majority proposes that by 1 March the Government should present to the Stortinget its own case assessing the economic framework conditions for Norwegian film policy. I see it almost as an additional message to the Culture Communication, which goes through these framework conditions in particular, and I also assume that that majority points to VAT, also dealt with in such a case. This with Norwegian film studio is a separate question. A majority also say that before the department sells the Film Studio, you have to go through the possibilities for further operation and come back to Stortinget with an assessment of how a sale can be made, so that the Film Studio can be further driven. It's also very important. And just to add – in relation to the debate we had earlier here today: the government parties – not the minister of culture, but the government parties, and then the Christian People's Party in the Stortinget – have cut five million dollars in film in the last year. kr i revised, then 5 mill. kr in the financial position, then SEK 7 million. SEK in the Culture Committee, i.e. SEK 17 million. kr. And with my experience of negotiating with the government parties about the cultural budget, I don't think a single penny has moved there without talking to the Minister of Culture. It was such that it was a little difficult to put a dot when we were sitting and negotiating, but it was not called up to the department. So that responsibility I don't think the Minister of Culture can dissociate. In the case of NRK, the Stortinget has now provided a necessary licence increase. The NRK is perhaps the world's public broadcaster who does the best, which keeps its broad position, while at the same time betting on narrow programs. But with the economic organization it also follows obligations. We still have discussions here in the house about the role of the NRK. We want from the Labour Party to bring this together in one place, it will give a much clearer relationship to both the General Assembly and the NRK if the Stortinget regularly discussed a public broadcaster instead of making small and large comments and decisions that lead the NRK in different budgetary settings, in the media and in various other contexts. We now ask the Council of State to come up with a separate case concerning the NRK's obligations as a public broadcaster before she, as a general meeting, creates new statutes for the NRK. So finally, we in the Culture Committee move, as Ola T. Lånke said, only 8 million. kr. We had a knockoff of $8 million. I do not know who was beaten, but at least we moved 8 million. kr on the cultural budget. That's a very small sum. It shows that this is an area where little money can do big things, and I hope it can lead us to give the cultural field a boost, and that we're also a little careful about what happens often, and that we've managed to avoid this time; cutting off the anonymous funds, where there are very many applicants and very little money. That's often the balancing item. On the contrary, these funds should have been strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e668	Initially, I would like to thank the Committee for its positive and constructive cooperation on the cultural budget. It has been a demanding process, but we got well into port. I would also like to thank the representative for his good words in connection with the conciliation. It is reassuring and pleasant to hear that the representative's scepticism is now gone. This year, the Minister for Culture is presenting a sound budget, which takes full account of the wide range of cultural aspects. And the cultural budget is big and complex, with which many people have been involved. I do not have the opportunity to go into all the areas, but the representative Thommess has been in his main post in a number of important areas. However, there are some areas that I am particularly pleased to have been followed up. First of all, it's amazing, I think we've now had the kick-off for Dansen's House in Oslo. This is a very long-term project, which has gone a thorny way through several alternatives. The Norwegian dance community deserves this to be started now, and a temporary location in the Norwegian Theatre seems to be a good temporary solution. Now that this is going to work, we expect a continuation at a level that can meet the expectations of the dance community for the house. The dance is emerging, as someone was here at the outset, and everything speaks for the Dansens Hus to be a strong contribution to triggering many of the great forces that lie latent in the dance environment. The cultural budget also provides for a strengthening of the Norwegian phonogram purchasing system of 3 million. kr. This is a matter set out in the Sem Declaration, which has thus been the priority of the government parties. Communication of Norwegian music has gradually become a major challenge. The distribution to music stores does not meet the need in any way, and although we now have improved accessibility through purchasing systems, it is clear that we are still facing unresolved challenges. Perhaps FONO's online distribution - Fonofile - can show you a way further. I also want to say a little bit about cultural life in Akershus. The cultural institutions in Akershus have been in a backyard in relation to Oslo for many years and have almost been overlooked. That is why I am very pleased that through our budget agreement with the Workers' Party, Akershus Theatre, which is a project and a tour theatre, has received additional funding. Akershus Theatre is based on the idea of a theatre offer that is rooted in local identity and activity. Children and young people are a priority target group both through the cultural school system and at performances at local cultural arenas and cultural houses across 22 municipalities in Akershus. Additional DKK 400000 in grants will help to increase and further develop the activity, and this also means a great deal to the development of Akershus Theatre as a tour theatre. Finally, I would like to stress that everyone must be given the opportunity to experience art and participate in cultural activities. It is important to strengthen national art and cultural institutions, while at the same time ensuring good opportunities for cultural self-activity and cultural dissemination throughout the country. In particular, a stronger focus on the arts and culture of public spaces, schools and workplaces is important. It is essential that the interest and commitment to art and culture are stimulated locally and growing from below. Finally, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the Government is following up the decision on opera in Bjørvika, that the construction work is well under way, and that they are on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e687	We need more than material good to be good as human beings. Transactions such as ‘quality of life’ include not only the material but also social and spiritual aspects. Cultural policy is particularly concerned with areas that touch people like spirit beings. To develop identity and integrity, the individual must experience closeness to his own life and his own history. Culture gives us a value anchor that creates security and identity. Cultural expansion also counteracts the fear of the future and creates security in association with others. The budget proposal from the Ministry of Culture and the Church for 2004 is the first to be submitted after the presentation of the cultural message. The message documents major budgetary challenges in the cultural field in the years to come, partly as a result of messages and propositions already handled by the Stortinget, such as the ABM message and the opera propositions, and partly to develop the various art areas, as outlined in the new cultural message. The cultural message, its setting and the debate in the Spring Summit will provide important guidance for the cultural policy priorities that come. Some are impatient and would like to see most in place in the 2004 budget, but of course this would not have been realistic even if the message had all been finalized in Stortinget. However, I am pleased, despite the budgetary framework for 2004, that it has been possible to make a budget proposal with clear traces of both the cultural message and previous messages. The museum reform will take a step further in 2004 with added support for a dozen consolidated museum changes and with a collection of budgeting of institutional contributions to the national museum network. The construction of a National Museum of Art will take important steps in 2004 with the current draft budget. The leadership at the museum has started well with the demanding task of reconstructing four formerly stand-alone measures into a new and powerful institution with a high professional range. Both in terms of organisation and physical framework conditions, a shift will have to take place. The last one will take time, but step-by-step this will be in line with the plans outlined. I am also pleased that the 2004 budget contains a good real boost for the State Archives. Many errors may occur if this profession is not able to keep electronic records properly. The 2004 budget proposal may require a language and literature profile. National library will get a big realv. This is absolutely necessary both to facilitate the installation and use of collections in the restored Solli building in Oslo from the summer of 2005 and to strengthen the base and depot functions of the Rana department. The recommended increase in the support of the Norwegian Society will strengthen and ensure the provision of literature in nine Norse. The work of preparing the marking of Henrik Ibsen's memory in 2006 will be stepped up in the coming years, with more than a double contribution to the National Committee on Ibsensting. The transformation of the Norwegian Language Council into a more out-of-date Norwegian Language Competence Body will continue. Setting up a consulting service for language usage in public services is an important piece in this transformation. I have noticed that the committee wants a low rate of VAT for cinema. VAT rates on cinemas are closely linked to the question of VAT rates for the whole of culture. Therefore, a broader assessment of VAT for the whole cultural field can be natural. A majority of the Committee asks the Government to submit a separate case on the economic environment for Norwegian films by 1 March 2004. Let me make it clear here that I've already planned to carry out an evaluation of the shooting arrangements in the film field. This work is planned for the autumn of 2004, but will be completed in 2005. One may, of course, start before, but it will not be possible to perform a defensive debriefing of this field in less than two months. It will not be possible to consult the film industry, which is absolutely necessary in such a case. If I were to take responsibility for carrying out such extensive work in two months, the result would have been urgent work that no one would have done, especially not the film industry. Therefore, I cannot defend my proposals in this matter if this is to be done within the time-frame on which the Committee is based. Last, but not least, I would like to stress that the professional art and the professionally anchored cultural effort must be promoted as a value in themselves. In the metamorphosis of ‘proper value’ lies an awareness of culture’s fundamental value in our lives. No one can live on bread and water alone. We are the spirit being, and we need a rich cultural life to be good as human beings.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e719	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e722	New statutes for the NRK are now being worked on. In fact, from the political leadership of the Ministry of Culture, it has been stated that the Storting should not interfere in this. Now a unanimous committee says that a case should be submitted to the Stortinget. The working party believes that it is appropriate now to bring together the leadership of the Stortingen for NRK in a general broadcasting poster, instead of making many small and large comments and decisions in different documents. Does the Council of State agree with this, and how quickly can the Council of State promote this for the Storting? The Committee has said that a case needs to be submitted to the Stortinget on a new framework for the NRK’s public broadcasting mission. Before the final statutes are adopted, they shall be adopted by the general meeting and shall be submitted to the Grand Duchy. How fast can this come?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e731	I have agreed on what Stortinget is behind, with regard to proposals that this matter should be returned to Stortinget. The representative of the Fall said that the political leadership had said that the Storting should not interfere with this. It's a language usage that we don't use. What we have said clearly about this is that the General Assembly has its responsibility and the Storting has its own. At a time when we discussed formulations, it seemed that the Storting should interfere with what was the responsibility of the General Assembly. The Storting doesn't have anything to do with it that way. It's important when we've organized the NRK as we've done, that we follow that practice with regard to how the statutes should be taken. But when there is a more general debate, which the Committee has asked for in its comments, I come back to the Storting when this is the case. Unfortunately, I cannot say today when I can get it done, but I am working on it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e740	We are very proud of our innovation in the cultural sector in the Progress Party, including this fund to develop cooperation projects between industry and culture. I assume that the Council of State has read the position of the Committee and there will have seen the proposal of the Progress Party promote a fund for developing cooperation projects between industry and culture. Can the Council of State consider taking a closer look at this proposal and be willing to discuss such innovation in the cultural sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e749	I am very pleased that both this Committee and the Business Committee have drawn up and discussed this with a cooperation between business and cultural life. That's good. Very often there is a thought that only we get some funds, it will solve the entire economic situation of the various efforts. I shall promise the representative to look at the proposal. I can't say today that I want to support it. But investing in different funds is not an economic solution that will make it easier for our budgets. However, when one is required to withdraw returns from the Fund, it must be entered in the normal budgets. This is not a hokus bag. But this focus on cooperation between business and cultural life seems exciting to me, and I'm glad of it. I am absolutely sure that we can work on this in cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e758	While we enjoy daily the vitality and success of Norwegian film, we see the clouds in the background. There has been a topic in the debate before today, and I do not want to let it go completely yet. It goes against the government to sell its shares in Norwegian Filmstudio. The tragic thing in this context is that the Workers' Party is setting up as a guarantor that this is actually happening. The environment itself says that a very likely sale will lead to closure. There are hundreds of millions invested in Jar, and the environment will be difficult to rebuild. Nothing would please me more than that these clouds do not let go of what they hide. What kind of security does the Council of State have for the film studio at Jar to live on? Does the Council of State believe that in Norway, unlike in other countries with much more annual film productions, there are environments that can take over the operation of Norsk Filmstudio? Do the state councils have a plan B?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e767	The idea and desire from the department's side is that when we sell these axes, we sell them to owner interests that want to drive the Film Studio on. The problem with the Filmstudio is that when it comes to some of the services you offer, it's fully booked with agreements and by people who want to use them, but when it comes to other services they offer, there's quite a lot of free capacity a year. They cannot use the full capacity of the entire movie studio. So they're running underfoot. Then we have an EEA and EU legislation that means that we can't just go in and give Filmstudio State aid, because it doesn't open up EU legislation. One of the problems is that when the film studio was organized as it was in its time, too little capital was put at the bottom. So now you have a problem with a debt that has to be paid. Then I think the best thing for the film industry is that we sell our axes and try to make sure that there's someone who wants to run it as a movie studio, who's going to buy it. At least that will be the starting point for the ministry and for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e780	The three umbrella organisations that run the Freefonds have committed themselves very strongly to bringing them into one department, so that it does not become like today, that it is both the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Culture to manage the funds. They claim it's very heavy. They're using resources and time. They also claim that there have been different situations when it comes to the internal distribution between these three organisations. The three are all agreed on that. My questions to the Council of State are: does the Council of State see that the Free Fund funds go over one department? Will the Council of State take the initiative to review and, where appropriate, consider correcting this misalignment, in consultation with the umbrella organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e787	Yes, I see the clear advantages that Freefonds will be in one department. We work in the government with different problem settings in relation to Freefonds, where one of the thoughts we have is that we should transfer everything to one department, and then possibly to the Ministry of Culture and the Church. But we're not even in the goal yet, so we're not done with the job. When it's about the bias distribution, I'll look at her. This is often the case when a resource is to be distributed. A biased advantage does not exist, but everyone feels that they are getting less than the average. This is because it is impracticable. But I can look at the distribution in relation to whether things have happened in recent years that make some people feel lost. If it can be fixed in the short term, I can't say. In any case, it must be taken over time, in relation to a distribution that these three organizations themselves think is more reasonable than the distribution that is today. I'll look at it, without being able to give a clear answer to what's most likely.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e794	As far as I understand, the main reason why the Film Studio should be sold is that there was not enough capital. But if it's something we have enough of here in the country, it's actually investment capital. So if that's the problem, I'm sure it's possible to place a very small part of the oil fund in the Filmstudio. It also does not affect the budgetary balance, so that it could even have a chance of going through the Financial Committee. I am asking the Council of State to note what the majority of people say, namely that one should come back to Stortinget with a clarification as to whether the Filmstudio can be operated on, before such sales are carried out. So I think it's quite remarkable that a government council is standing here on the pulpit and says she's not going to comply with a Roman number decision, which will be passed here later today. The majority say that the Council of State has to come back with a separate case on the framework conditions for Norwegian film policy before 1 March 2004. The reason is that we want to have it in connection with the cultural message and work on it, and then it has to come before 1 March. It would have been an advantage if it had been properly clarified in the cultural message, but when it is not done, it has to be done before 1 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e803	When it comes to the state support of the film park, I've responded to it in the previous line exchange. We have an EU legislation that means that we cannot bring additional state aid to the company, as the company really wants. When it comes to the fact that the Council of State does not intend to implement a Roman number decision, I have to say that I am very surprised that the majority can support such a Roman number decision without asking the ministry if it is possible to implement it. This was entered without the ministry being consulted. As a former State Council, the representative should have known that when a message is to be sent to the Stortinget, it should first be heard. If I could have a message ready in Stortinget until 1 March, the message should have been sent on the phone now. We have not done this process. For me, it is important to make the Storting aware – it has nothing to do with evil will – that it is completely impracticable to come up with a big message or an additional message as soon as possible, if we are to have proper processes with the film environment, with listening rounds, etc. That's why I encourage the Storting to give me some more time. Then I'll sue you.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e810	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e813	Some cultural policy measures are more important than others. The Committee has worked on the cultural school bag during the harvest. The cultural school bag shall include, inter alia: be financed by tipping agents. The change in the key has been adopted by the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, which say that the profits from Norsk Tipping are to be shared equally between sport and cultural purposes. This has given Culture-Norway a tremendous boost. The cultural school bag shall help all primary school students to gain access to, familiarize themselves with and have a positive relationship with art and cultural experiences of all kinds. On a proposal from the Workers' Party, the key to the cultural school bag has changed in relation to St.meld. No 38 for 2002-2003 as regards local projects and as regards key development actions. In 2003, $180 million. kr of the ticking funds go to the school bag. So the central part is going to get $36 million. kr, which amounts to 20 pst., while the local joint receives 144 million. kr for distribution, which is 80 pst. This should go unabated to the municipalities where the kids are. The Labour Party is very pleased that the government parties also found this proposal correct and voted against the proposal in the communication from their own government. Typing agents are also useful in other areas. I'm thinking about Freefonds. Local activity is important and it is essential that teams and organisations have good framework conditions. The assumption of the decision was that the ordinary appropriations for the State budget should be maintained. The government again disregards the decision to raise funds and proposes cuts in the budget of the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Culture. This is in addition to the cut in the budget for the current year. This means that the total bet is less than it should have been. In the alternative budget of the Workers' Party, we therefore proposed to reverse the cuts in the Freefonds. Also in the case of local cultural buildings, the Government does the same. Another theme that is rarely discussed in the United Kingdom, but which is widely discussed throughout the country, is sports policy. In Sports Norway, a lot of volunteer work is done. In particular, this work is important in order to promote the health competence of children and young people. It is also important to show the link between latitude and voluntary work. Through the conversion of the key, sport receives a significant increase in fixed assets and project resources. This is very positive. The carport should also come in here. It is important that motorsports are carried out in controlled forms, and then we need suitable tracks and facilities. Finally, I would like to mention some individual matters that are important to me. One is Tromsø symphony orchestra. By means of the budget agreement, they are now hopefully assured that the orchestra can replace the three part-musicians who leave the orchestra. The working party had 1.3 million. kr in their alternative budget, but they are now getting NOK 700000 through the budgetary agreement. The second case concerns own TV broadcasts in Northern Ireland, which still lacks full broadcasting surfaces. Once again, the majority of Stortinget says that the broadcasting surfaces should be the same in all the television regions. This case dates back to 1996, and when has the Council of State planned to clean it up? Finally, I would like to address the problems that many newspapers face in connection with the disputed postage increase that comes into force from 1 January 2004. The Working Party is concerned that media policy should ensure diversity and freedom of expression, and is afraid that additional expenditure in the form of postage increases will deplete Avis-Norway. For example: Helgeland Arbeiderblad, with a circulation of about 10 %. 10,000 copies and six publications per month. week, will have an additional cost of approximately NOK 687 000. Unfortunately, the vast majority of newspapers have been awarded the Posten services, especially in the districts, and the Workers' Party believes that the Minister of Culture must contribute to measures to ensure these newspapers continue to operate. I take it as a matter of course that the Council of State has had enough time – after the Post Office decision of 1 January 2004 – to find ways to solve the extra costs that the newspapers bear, as the Post states that they have no cultural responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e834	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e837	We are now through our third budgetary process in this committee. There were two speakers here instead: How will SV give priority to the future? How will SV give priority if we get into government and position? What we have actually experienced these three years is three budgetary agreements with the Government, where, in conciliation, small sums of money are clearly addressed to each representative's home country. There are considerable differences in the geographical distributions of the state in the cultural budget, and SV believes that the coincidences are to some extent in this committee as in many other committees in the Grand Duchy. In our committee we have a responsibility for the benefit of the whole country. We are therefore promoting a proposal today which is very sad that the Committee does not support. Then we might have had a more holistic cultural policy, and maybe we would have had a complete discussion to see how this country works culturally. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to take a closer look at the geographical distribution of cultural resources in relation to population figures and to come back with proposals for measures to balance the differences between counties.’ SV does not mean that we should set up large institutions, but that when we think about new ones, we should look at the distribution of the population. There are several counties coming out badly. We in SV have asked the Investigation Section to do such a study, and it shows that there are considerable differences. Both representatives of the SV in the committee come from counties who get very little cultural resources. Eastfold County is one of them. There are two measures that are quite new in Norway. It is the Momentum contemporary art festival that I am delighted that the Council of State and the Department have now put into the cultural budget. Then it is Animated Days in Fredrikstad, which is a film festival – also an important contribution to Culture-Norway. There are many who have stood here today and greeted them at home, and I would like to say at least that I am pleased that Eastfold, who is receiving so little cultural resources, has a creativity that has now put Norway on the agenda culturally, also internationally. Then I hope we get a majority for our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e855	It was nice to hear earlier in the debate today that both the representative Torny Pedersen and the representative Eirin Fallet of the Workers' Party boasted of the results of the proposal that Per Sandberg and I promoted when it came to re-allocation of the funds. There is something that can lead to a boost for both sport and culture in Norway. But that's not what I was going to use most of my post for. I would like to return to my reply earlier today with the representative Lånke. There has been support for the various publications of the post for many years. In this we find magazines like Samora, Clear Speech, Blick and the Christian newspapers Magazine, Norway IDAG and the Victory of the Cross. The latter was new to the budget last year. Before this item, there have been historically no clear criteria for the distribution of the aid. It has been highly discretionary, depending on changing political constellations. The Party wishes to base objective criteria for this award, criteria which, in a simple and measurable way with which it is difficult to manipulate, will ensure that clear guidelines are provided. Among other things, you can use the storage and publishing frequency. It is with great disappointment and frustration that the Progress Party notes that the Right and Christian People's Party has ignored the written agreement we had on this under the budget last year. It makes it difficult for us to have faith in these parties as future partners. This is not the way Mr Lånke said that the department has asked for more time. It has been said in the budget proposal that it is difficult to develop such criteria and that there are negative consequences associated with them. It's on page 130 in the setting. So you've been dedicating this project and not asking for more time. We therefore believe that this leads to that we need to ask some questions, among other things. by Christian People's Party priorities. We cannot understand why the Christian People's Party will give priority, for example. The homo leaves Blink over the Christian newspapers. As far as film policy is concerned, we are very pleased that the representative Giske and the Labour Party have joined our proposal to clarify the economic framework conditions for film policy. We find it alarming that the Council of State from this pulpit says that it does not intend to follow up. We assume that a clear decision from the Storting will be followed up in such a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e866	I would like to begin by thanking the Committee for the commitment it has shown to Grenland Fritheater, and for the 300000 kroner that the Government Party and the Labour Party have been able to negotiate in the budgetary agreement. However, it must be noted that the Workers' Party's alternative budget would have given 500000 DKK more to Grenland Fritheater. The role of this theatre for our area must not be underestimated. The theatre has created jobs and optimism in an industrial society with very large conversions in recent years. The theatre has our driving force in Porsgrund International Theatre Festival, which is scheduled to celebrate its 10th anniversary in 2004 if it is economic life prepared for the theatre in the future. This, of course, depends on the fate of the theatre in the budgetary processes. It has existed for more than 25 years and has been a powerful stimulus to amateur life and other cultural activities in the border region. We have received a signal that the theatre is deleted from the Cultural Council's list of rights to free groups. If that's true, I think the future of the theatre is at stake. The theatre has been struggling with scarce resources for many years and spent a lot of time getting money for operation. There is no concealment that both the government and the ministry have created expectations of a more secure funding, thus ensuring the future of the theatre. If this theater disappears, it will be a huge loss for the entire Norwegian cultural life. In the end: I also find reason to be satisfied with and happy with the promise that the Bok- och blueshuset project in Notodden has received. Both the Committee and the Council of State shall be commended for a positive attitude. The project is well on track, and everyone working on this project is looking forward to this project becoming a reality from 2007, as set out in the long-term programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e875	I would like to say that it was very good that the NRK license was adjusted. It would have been alarming if that didn't happen. I would like to remind you of the challenges faced by the NRK when it comes to digitising the archive material. So a little bit back to the subtitles of direct programs. We know that it is a challenge both economically and in technology development. The journal ‘Your Hearing’ of 7 October this year claimed that cooperation between the TV channels and IBM is halted for economic reasons. I'm almost going to say, "Dear Council of State, I will as intimately as I can, ask you to follow this case closely and, if necessary, take the initiative of a meeting with the NRK, so that the process of technology development comes in the right direction. It is my honourable claim that this is a national responsibility that Stortinget, not the NRK, should bear the costs. Both the Bjørnson Festival and the Molde International Jazz Festival, as a result of the budgetary agreement between the Government Party and the Labour Party, have been given increased privileges. This supports the Center Party. I am also happy to record the clear signals that the Minister of Culture according to the media in More and Romesdal have come with when it comes to the jazz festival in Molde. According to Romsdal's Budstikke of 26 November this year, the Council of State promises that next year's jazz festival in Molde will be the turn of a proper economic lift from the state. There has been a very positive reception, and I expect this to be followed up in next year's budget. I can promise the Council of State that we will follow closely. Finally, I would like to mention the Festival games in Elverum and the Förde International Music Festival, which specialises in current candidates for the status of node institutions. This will come back to us during the process of the cultural message, but the Central Party will already signal that both of these two music festivals are continuing to change their status. In the end, like the previous speaker, I want to express concern when it concerns the drop in the newspaper in connection with the alerting postage. In the spontaneous Question Time earlier this year, the Council of State has stated that this has a cultural policy significance, and my challenge to the Council of State is how will it solve this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e891	The Workers' Party believes that culture is important. We believe that too little money can be achieved in the cultural field. I want to highlight a small matter in this budget, but which is nevertheless very important, and will mean too many, both children, young people and adults. It's the Norwegian Blue Sea ensemble in Halden. The Labour Party proposed to allocate 1 million in its budget. kr to the Corps. We didn't get through to that. Many probably remember the "beat" of the Divisional Music in Halden. The divisional music in Halden and Kristiansand was proposed when the Stortinget dealt with the reorganisation of the defence not long ago. But in the eleventh hour, Stortinget took the matter into consideration. Many thought that just putting a line across the whole divisional music in Halden and in Kristiansand was a poor and little forward-looking solution, and a waste of the competence and environment that existed in these corps. On a proposal from the Workers' Party, a majority in Stortinget went in to allow the Corps to live on, but in a split layer between the municipality and the county council and the state. The result we are seeing today. This has been very successful. State, municipality and county joined with funds, although both Halden municipality and Østfold county municipality did not have much to take off. But here it was will. Still something remains locally, but it will come into place. The musicians have taken on new tasks with great enthusiasm. Children and young people in schools around the county and music clubs have now received a boost. People are being drawn. There are concerts with a high musical level. It's fun to see how these musicians can inspire. That is why it is good that the Workers' Party, together with the government parties, was able to find 300,000 kroner in the budget for next year – not a lot of money, but a strong signal that the Storting will contribute. It is also a signal that this year's allocation is a first step on the road towards the state being involved and taking its part in this fissure layer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e906	As a former member of the Culture Committee, I have followed much of the debate today. I think the debates are a little daunting, but it may be because there is a wide-ranging deal in the Storting, so that one does not get any particular temperature up in such debates. So the reason I took the floor. There are some wonderful, good comments on page 107 in the settings that relate to rock city, and in this regard I just want to read a few quotes from a newspaper in Nord-Trøndelag on August 18th this year: «Now it really rocks for the museum centusia stones in Namsos. Nestled manager Hill-Marta Solberg in the Workers' Party promises full support for the plans of the Rock Museum.» And then it says in the text: ‘Hill-Marta Solberg had filled the guitar offering with political explosives when she spent the weekend visiting the first candidate collection to the Nord-Trøndelag Arbeiderparti. Because it is rarely cost that such a central politician promises support in a localisation struggle before a pre-project is in place.’ Furthermore, Hill-Marta Solberg says: «I and the rest of the central management in Ap, are naturally aware of the proud tradition Namsos has within the coat. The city has fostered quantities of quality artists, and has meant a lot to Norwegian popular music. Namsos is the most natural place to place a national rock muesum.’ Therefore, it is with a little wonder that I register that the Workers' Party does not have a single word in the settings of a rock museum. There are two parties that stand out honestly and honestly with their opinions. It's on the one hand the Advance Party, which sticks to what we've said in previous processes regarding rock city, and then it's on the other side SV. Although SV might want to have a longer process in their own party, it also shines through in their remarks that this should be added to central strokes, i.e. to Oslo. What's a little timely to remind you about the Workers' Party here is that they went out vigorously in the election campaign, and in the last period they were together with the Advance Party in the thinking around rock city. Even though they did not go directly in for Namsos at the time, they had at least one mention of the matter. I am now recording that the Labour Party is totally absent from that debate. What it's about, I don't dare to go in. But at least I hope that the Workers' Party will also deal with what the Vice-Chair of the Party has promised its leaders in the Nord-Trøndelag, and that the Workers' Party will come back more strongly when it comes to dealing with the cultural message. There is also one reason why Woldseth has drawn the proposal for rockcity in Namsos, in the hope that the Workers' Party will eventually fall into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e928	First, I want to draw attention to something that we perceive must be an incurrency. This is a proposal contained in the notes on page 126, which has been included as a framework independent proposal III on page 162. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have not intended to vote in favour of this, and believe that they should never have been involved in it, but that it might possibly be another party, such as. The Socialist Left Party, which should have been involved. But I can't answer that either. It could say whether it's a majority or not. Now I have had a conference with the Minister of Culture, which says she agrees that what is in this proposal will be done. Then I suggest that those who want to put it forward turn it into a transmission proposal, so that it goes to the Government that way. Then I have a comment on the debate. I think it has largely been done neatly today after a familiar pattern, perhaps with a few small exceptions. At the bottom of the setting, there's a budgetary settlement, which makes you a little bit tied up, and it might not be the big waves of numbers and moves, etc. So maybe you're trying to find other openings. I think it's a little unfortunate that there has been a dispute about presenting a case on the framework conditions for films. There might be a lot to say about that. There may be points of view that go a little in the same direction as the proposers, but it is a pity to use such a debate to create a conflict and to build waves around the time when this is to be done. You might get big headlines with that, but the purpose must be politics, and then I think it would be very unfortunate if you were to insist that this be done before 1 March. Then we get a bad job. This is an important question that we need to spend time on in Stortinget, not least in the government in advance, so that we can get the best possible result for film development in Norway. Finally, to the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen, who again had a visit to this budgetary agreement we had with the Progress Party last year. Our perception of that budgetary settlement is not exactly what Knudsen is trying to make. Now it would lead too far to go into the details of this. Maybe we can do that in the chamber. But we don't see it as a breach. There was a fight after the inception of this, and I remember it. The thing is, we want there to be a diversity there, we didn't want to reduce for any of those in that post. But I want to remind the representative Knudsen that those who have received the Christian newspapers into this post, it is the Christian People's Party, and not with the Advance Party, but with the Workers' Party in two conciliations. And who increased this year? It was the Christian People's Party to two of them, and it was not with the Advancement Party, but with the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e937	The cultural policy of the Workers' Party is based on the idea that everyone should have a cultural offer wherever they live. Therefore, it is so important that there is room for small and large museums and music festivals in all singers. Hedmark is a great cultural group, and the Workers' Party had in its alternative budget an increase to local action in Hedmark. Unfortunately, there was no room for e.g. The Elverum party games. It's sad, because the Festival Games in Elverum have evolved over the past 30 years as it has existed, to become a party game for the interior of Eastland. The festival games in Elverum are alone to offer classical music of high international standards, where the Youth Symphonists play an important key role. I think that the party games in Elverum have to be a hub institution, but we have to get back to this in the context of the cultural message. The Committee has visited the Aubergrust Centre, and it is located in Alvdal. It was a great enthusiasm for what we heard and saw there. I see Kjell Aukrust as a national artist, and I believe that the state should go in and make sure that Aukrust's authorship benefits the whole country. His imaginative world is needed in everyday life. Not least we could need to get to know the life of Alvdal here in the Stortinget, and see that there lives a Solan Gundersen and a Ludvig in some and each of us. That's why it was sad that we didn't get a majority for a budget increase, as the Labour Party suggested. Norway's great writer and barber, Alf Prøysen, has got his own house, Prøysenhuset in Ringsaker, Hedmark. Now these days old and young Prøysen's "Julekveldvise" sing. Yes, it sings almost more than ‘Joy Christmas’, but it doesn’t scare me. The phrase is written in such a way that everyone understands and feels that what he writes concerns them. I would therefore like to thank you for the space for 400,000 kroner for the Prøysenhuset next year. But Prøysen's life works need to be passed on to new generations, and therefore more money is needed to develop the Prøysen House into a national knowledge company and an experience centre. Now, when we sing at Christmas that "savoury was a must-have" or when we're out at Christmas night looking for the star "over the roof where a Earthmother-Matja lives", we should think about the commitment we have to the cultural heritage of Prøysen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e952	I almost said, "It's going to sing the one that can." It's worse for us to be surprised when we sing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e955	First, I only have a brief comment on Per Sandberg's posts. The Workers' Party wholeheartedly supports a rock museum in Namsos. What has been discussed is if a national rock archive is to be established, where it is to be located and how it is to be organised. There are several stakeholders inside, and what we say in our remarks is that Trondheim, which is one of them, and Namsos should coordinate their initiatives. Then I believe that the chance of it going to end up in that region is considerably strengthened. This is a budget debate that comes just before we're going to have a big cultural message and have a debate around it. That's why there's a lot of people who choose to leave the big questions about cultural policy on that occasion. There will be big and important things we're going to discuss there. We're going to discuss the distribution of power within the field of culture. Are we going to channel the funds through the institutions or the free groups? Should they have fixed appropriations, or should there be project support? To be given a fixed place in the state budget, or to be granted through different funds. To that it's already going to be saying that even though the committee now only moves 8 million. kr, and in the case of small amounts, they contain important political signals. With regard to the objectives of increased support from the Storting, I would like to stress in particular that the Committee does not consider that, for example: The Culture Council may cut correspondingly in its appropriations. We have meant this as a strengthening of the respective fields. It is an important signal that the Council of Culture should notice. So a few words about the Film Studio. In its submission, the Council of State said that there was a problem with competition rules, and therefore no increased State aid could be granted. Now, there are a lot of other countries that have similar infrastructures for film, where it obviously does not seem equivalent to distorting competition. When the Council of State comes back with a matter of how further operations can be ensured, we are fully open from the Workers' Party to go in and see if there can be an entire state infrastructure. And, as I said, it's not money for investment purposes we're missing here in the country. Nor can it be distorting to do so. In the case of an extra film case, we have set the deadline for 1 March. We have also said clearly in the setting what we want a review of. We want a review of production support, so that we invite private individuals to invest in films as much as possible. We want a review of the ticket support system. We support today's ticket support scheme, but we are asking for a look at return arrangements from the great successes, and we are asking for a review of the tax and VAT regime. We are not asking for a full report on film policy. But we're asking for a review of these areas, and I think there should also be material related to the process of the cultural message that can be used for this, and it should be fully possible to get it in place by 1 March. If not, it can go beyond other things we have to deal with here in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e966	Localization debates are a separate discipline on Stortinget, and I'm going to admit that we're not letting them into the party I'm from either. Today, Per Sandberg says that rock city must be in Namsos. Namsos is an excellent place that can house a lot of things, but I'm not sure it's exactly these activities that should lie there, at least not a national facility. It was also presented as if this were something that you in Namsos should have invented yourself. Of course it isn't. These are ideas that have been put into practice both in Denmark and Sweden, and there are many environments and many places, both towns and cities, in Norway, which would like to have these activities. Then we can't mix the cards. What are we talking about? There's already ongoing investigations into an archive, a rock archive. I have said that the archive should be coordinated with the show archive and the jazz archive, because this is important source material, and it should be in the same place. I think Solli place is a completely right place to have such a type of archive. There will be quite a lot of surplus material in such an archive that can go to a rock museum, and a rock museum can accommodate much more. I think the idea of a rock museum is good, and it should preferably be placed in an environment that has room for – you might say – having a museum and having educational institutions and other activities, such as clubs and stuff. That means there must be a place that has traditions within this genre. Here there should be environments that work and have a width, and there should be clubs, festivals and the type of activities nearby. What we're saying is that there should be no snitching in the queue. What we're asking for is for the Department to take up the matter and make an investigation in such a way that the environments in question, the places in question, and not least that the environments themselves, the environments that make up this field, are also involved in directing the direction and content of this activity. Here we can afford to take our time and not rush. I understand that many people want this. I'm not going to suggest the Dram.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e979	The president was just waiting for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e982	It seems that we have come to an end in this debate, and I would like to thank the Committee for a good and tidy debate without the great controversy. There have been many good words too, and it shows that there is a great deal of consensus on cultural policy. I guess it's just the progress part that's a little bit on the side line. The opposition wants more of everything, but it is such that the government parties have to keep a responsible budget, even if we too wish much more. The Culture Communication is now under consideration in the Committee, and I look forward to this discussion. I think that will give us an opportunity to get a thorough review of the entire cultural area, and that we can put some important leads forward. I am also pleased with the signals we have received from the Minister of Culture that there will be a greater commitment to culture in the future. To move in at $8 million. The budget for culture is a small sum in the total budget, and many react to the fact that we are moving on to such small sums in committee negotiations. But unlike several other budgets being dealt with here in the house, which contains millions and billions of dollars, actually means $200-300,000 or $1 million. kr enormously much for the local cultural life. It generates so much commitment and so much activity, and it is very important to create a diverse and living cultural life. In relation to May Hansen's contributions, I would like to say: for those who are particularly interested, I would actually like to draw attention to the SV's alternative budget over the last three years. There's a lot of special stuff there. In particular, I think you should keep an eye on Eastfold/Moss – Fredrikstad in particular – and Buskerud. There are many solid Christmas cards there, but unlike SV, we have been able to get through in other parties to bet on a number of important areas. So it doesn't have an SV. And what May Hansen himself did in the end was just sending a Christmas card to Fredrikstad. I should like to sign that, but you might want to be a little bit careful with criticism from others. I think everyone needs – we have been chosen from a place – to make the areas and cultural activities that take place in our own area visible, too, when we fight for funds in relation to the big bets in the big cities. Once again, I would like to thank the Committee for a good debate and, as I said, I look forward to a further debate on culture for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e997	I would also like to say that there has been a clean and thorough debate. I must admit that when I sit and listen to all the good suggestions for additions, I will say yes to all the additions, but I cannot say yes to all the cuts that need to be put in place! That's the dilemma and a little bit of the difference between being in position and being in opposition. I have a challenge, and it applies to what seems to be a plural decision in relation to the time when a case is to be submitted to the Stortinget. Just practical I can't get it done. There is no evil will on my part, and no resistance to doing the job. But I encourage those parties that haven't let go of it at the time, to evaluate this when the decision is to be taken. I don't have a chance to carry out such a review and have a case filed on 1 March 2004. And if a person wants to have a good dialogue on film policy, I'm asking that those who haven't let it go are going to be successful by that date, considering this relative to the vote that's going to take place later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1006	Trond Giske has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1010	I could not record that the Minister of Culture said anything about what Ola T. Lånk announced that she was going to say, namely that she was going to follow up the case about the Film Studio. If the Minister of Culture is concerned about what's going on in the pulpit, she might get the chance from the president to say that, that she should come back with a question about how the Film Studio can be continued before she possibly sells it. In that case, I am prepared to redraft the proposal for a transmission proposal. Then to the violent time pressure in the department. We are not asking for a full report on Norwegian film policy. We're actually very pleased with the big conversion that was made two years ago, and don't see the need for a big, new conversion now. There is something that needs to be adjusted and looked at. It is outlined in three points in the setting, and it is fully possible to review it until 1 March. In fact, we have a government that is able to turn State Consultant into a share company in 14 days – in Rome even – and then it would be possible to have a limited review of Norwegian film policy by 1 March next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1017	When it concerns Filmstudio, it is clear that I will follow up the comments in the setting. And that there's going to be a transmission proposal, it's okay for me. It was in my script that it was to be followed up, but I did not get so far that I could use that part of the script. – I have no problem with this. When it comes to the timing, I believe – without being untimely – that the ministry is actually the right authority to evaluate what is possible. There will be not enough work delivered on 1 March. I think I'm just saying it this way, and then maybe the multiples on the Storting will evaluate it. There's a matter for Stortinget, and if it's going to be a good thing, it has to come later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1024	To the representative Sjøli: It is clear that everyone here today has greeted home. It is done in all committees. That's what I said at Stortinget's pulpit. May Hansen did, too! What I'm saying is that we've actually made a proposal here today asking for an assessment and an overall review of how we use state resources, to get a discussion around it and get a complete thought forward. I think that is a rather constructive proposal, on which I had hoped the Committee could be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1029	Ola T. Lånke has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1032	Just a brief note to the representative Giske. I registered the last post to Trond Giske as a small retreat in relation to what he came up with earlier today on investigations into Norwegian film policy. Now he's talking about a limited investigation, because there's been an extensive one before. I think that's something quite different, and probably also much more affordable for the department. I want to remind you in the same sling that the department has very big challenges. This also applies to the Media Department. Now we're working on transitioning to the digital ground, and only that will require very large resources. I hope you understand that a department also needs time on important issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1039	No more have asked for the word to be used for area 3. Then we move on to the debate on Framework Area 1 Government and Framework Area 2 Family and consumer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1044	First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their constructive and good cooperation on the budget for Frameworks 1 and 2. However, I do not want to hide that there has been a demanding process that has challenged us all in many ways. But we finally got into the harbour, albeit a little overtime. The budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party of the Financial Committee ensures the main features of the Government's economic policy. The most important thing for the Right is that we implement the policies we stand for. That's why we work with those who make this possible. That's what we're working together on, which means something, not who we're working with. I would therefore like to pay tribute to the Workers' Party, which takes responsibility, and which supports a budget that will provide more jobs, which will continue and further develop the welfare and service provision of the population, and which will support the Government to continue the important work of modernising and streamlining the public sector. I am pleased with the outcome of the negotiations on the budget agreement for Framework Area 1. As I said at the outset, it has been a demanding process. It is no secret that it is the transformation of State Consultant into a full-time public limited liability company that has been at the heart of the dispute. In addition to our treatment of the transformation, as part of the budget proposal, the municipal committee has to deal with an odelstation proposal which is about giving the employees of Statskonsult AS the right of priority to state positions and the right to waiting pay. There has been undue unrest in the process and very unfortunate media talk, which is obvious as a burden for the State Consultant. Let me make it explicitly clear that I am at the sharpest distance from all the claims that the Council of State Norman should in any way have the ‘villedet Stortinget’, as the Labour Party writes in a comment in the vote. I respect political disagreement, but I am mildly very surprised at the language used by the Workers' Party. The representative Geske stated to the evening post on Wednesday 10 December that he understood that the statement that Norman had misled the Stortinget was ‘hacked before’ mistrust’. In my view, claiming that a government council is misleading the Storting without having any evidence of it, it is serious. What the Council of State has done is to guide the Greatness, not deceive. Then the Workers' Party was standing alone about this misleading remark in the setting. Neither the SV nor the Central Party were allowed to join this unworthy game, and that's good! The model for the transformation of the State Consultant proposed by the Cooperation Government, including the rights of employees, follows exactly the same model as other transformations previously proposed by the government of Brundtland, the government of Bondevik I, and last but not least by the government of Stoltenberg. I record that some of those who now stand out as Norman's most angry critics, even put in some of these governments. When they meet themselves at the door, it might have been an advantage if they had known each other. If the Workers' Party's claim that the Council of State would be correct, it would have to be used in this case for previous governments, among others. on the government of Stoltenberg. I would like to stress that the employees of the Statskonsult possess a very good and important competence that must be used in the public sector. This is precisely why it is so important to transform the business. If Statskonsult were to continue as a governing body, counties, municipalities and freed state bodies would be cut off from the possibility of using this competence. The right is in favour of transforming State Consultant into a limited liability company precisely because we believe it is important and right that the competence of the employees in the State Consultant should benefit the entire public sector. I'm surprised that there are parties in this room that disagree with it. The Council of State has clearly stated that the tasks of the State Consultant are to be continued in the new company and that the rights of the employees are to be respected through the maintenance of maintenance and prioritising of posts in the State. For those who choose to make a reservation, the Staff Act applies. The Workers' Party protests loudly for all the world, but they are involved in the process and transformation of State Consultant into a state limited liability company. That they're on the move, I'm satisfied with, but in the case of the protests, seen in the light of the fact that they actually ensure the majority for the transformation, they might well have subdued their criticism. The budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties in the Committee implies that there are no changes to the State budget other than those contained in the agreement in the position of the Financial Committee and, as I said, it includes the transformation of State Consultant into an AS. The Workers' Party thus ensures a majority of the Government's important work on the conversion and modernisation of the public sector. I am very pleased with that. Now it is important to focus on the possibilities of the new company. I want to take advantage of the opportunity to wish the board of directors and employees good luck with the transformation. I hope that the unnecessary unrest created in the media has not reduced the confidence of the authority of the State Consultant. We're a multiplicity committee, so I'm now going to the children's and family area. The current budget is the largest budget for children and young people. The budget is increasing by DKK 5.7 billion, and the main reason is the investment in kindergartens and the state acquisition of county child and family protection. The budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party implies that this effort is maintained. There are no changes in the budget of the Ministry of Children and Family. The government is following up the pediatric conciliation. The budget includes a target of 12,000 new kindergartens next year. We will therefore take an important step on the way to full child care coverage. The parental payment shall be reduced and the flexible maximum price shall be introduced from 1 May 2004. A unanimous committee asks the Ministry to come back with a case to the Stortinget on how to implement sibling moderation. The Ministry is now working on proposals for regulations that will be sent out at the hearing. Following the consultation round, the Ministry will present a case to the Stortinget with proposals for regulations as soon as possible and in good time before step 1 of the maximum price is implemented from 1 May 2004. I am very pleased that there is now a broad consensus on the objectives and the pace of implementation in relation to kindergarten policy. It will ensure peace around kindergarten and contribute to predictability and more and cheaper kindergartens. I have also registered that the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager is very pleased with the position of the committee. The same is true, I believe, of the Communes' Central Association. This is a reassuring starting point for the job to be done in both the public and private nursery sectors. For the Right, freedom of choice for families with children is important. That is precisely what we want to ensure through the development of more and cheaper kindergartens and continued cash support. For a long time, there has been a lot of unfortunate focus on child protection. New measures and reorganization of child protection from the New Year will not solve all the problems, but I believe that the new child protection system will have far more opportunities to help families in crisis. New measures and methods are about ringing the family and playing on the resources available to avoid crisis response and care-taking. The state acquisition of institutional child protection and family protection will provide equivalent and more competent child protection throughout the country. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the new director of the State Children's Protection and Family Protection, Ann-Marit Soubønes, on a demanding but challenging task. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Government has been able to implement its proposals in the family communication, and that the majority will now also be involved in strengthening important family policy measures in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1086	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1089	This is a comprehensive and broad subject. I would like to ask a question in an important area, which the representative Sjøli also raised, namely the question of child protection and care for children who have to leave their home, be placed in foster homes or in a child welfare institution, etc. We know that large scandals are now being rolled up from the past, in relation to how those children were followed up. We have to do everything we can to avoid anything like that happening again. Good supervision of these children is then essential. Now we see from the budget that the county budget was cut to a certain extent. It is the county that is responsible for the oversight of these institutions, and this may also weaken supervision. When we're going to find money on a budget, there's often a lot of tricks to do. This year, child welfare rounds to the nearest tens and gets money to balance the budget. We want to do the same with regard to the cash support, to spend money on child protection supervision. It would have provided seven dollars less in cash support, but a solid increase in child protection. Why couldn't the Right be involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1098	It is true, as the representative Giske says, that it is now important to have good child protection oversight – and there are several levels of supervision. These regional offices, which are to act as centres of excellence, are becoming very important. Municipalities shall be overseen and the county councillors shall be overseen. It is true that the statesmen have had to contribute a small cut in their appropriations, but we believe that the cut is no larger than that it is fully sound. When it turns out that the county officials themselves have reported that they have not received enough funds, I have to ask if there are many examples of businesses that believe that they themselves have received enough or too much money in the budget. The community has been given new tasks, while other tasks are transferred to others, which I was in charge of. It is very important now – in order for child protection to work better, and we are to avoid what we have experienced in child protection for many years – that supervision be strengthened, and that is done on several levels, as I was in the field of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1103	There can be no doubt that Norway is completely at the top of the world in terms of the number of employees in the public sector. When we see this in the context that it has been pointed out a number of times from the Right Party that in the future we have too few people to fill vacancies and have to have work immigration, I understand very little. If you, for example, had streamlined 10 pst. in public bureaucracy, this problem would have been solved, and we would have enough people. Instead, this government, in which the Right is in, actually goes the wrong way. The budgets for red tape are being increased, among others: in the Ministry of Labour and Administration, where there is an increase of more than 28 pst. to red tape this year, and at least 30 million. kr of this is about a real, concrete increase. My question is, is this good right-wing policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1111	If there is any government that has been criticised for wanting to modernise and streamline the public sector, it is this government. I thought that the Progress Party agreed with this modernisation and renewal of the public sector in order to create better services for the population, that it actually had the support of the Progress Party. That's why I'm a little surprised at the question. Both departments, central government and public agencies need to be streamlined, so that we get more money back, more for tax money. I thought I had the support of the Advance Party. Sometimes it sometimes takes some investment just to bring about such modernisation, which I was in for, and it is possible that this is what the representative Knudsen is looking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1121	This concerns the conversion of State Consultant from the administrative body to a limited liability company. It is difficult to see what arguments the Government has to convert State Consultant into a limited liability company. I want the representative, Sjöli, to say something about it. I would also like to point out that a number of factors, such as cost assessments in relation to employees' rights, business analyses, etc., are not sufficiently clear. The matter has also not been properly investigated, either in terms of the tasks or the labour law aspects. In budgetary terms, there are considerable uncertainties. Can the representative clarify any of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1128	There were many questions at once. It was actually a very small post, but I'll try to take some of it. I think I was quite clear in my post as to why it is important to convert State Consultant into a limited liability company. It was just to take advantage of all the professional skills that lie there. State consultants are, because there is an administrative body, cut off from taking on tasks from municipalities, counties and also from private individuals, but a change of approach could really help the public sector to benefit from that competence. With regard to the rights of employees, they are protected by the right to a waiting wage. This is right enough for another committee. They are given the right of first instance to hold posts in the State and the matters which are otherwise necessary are within the scope of the Civil Service Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1137	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1140	I think all the parties in this house are concerned that the money that we have at our disposal should be spent in the most effective way possible, and that the regulation of supervision in a society should be done in such a way that it creates the least possible bureaucracy and the best possible result. For this reason, the government of Stoltenberg initiated extensive modernisation work in the public sector and transformed very many sectors. Those transformations have had one main purpose, and it has been to make the services better. The goal has been to improve our quality and to give people better access from the public, while making the best possible use of the most important resource in any public service production, namely the employees, who are to perform the job properly. Now, in this house, we have discussed our own statement on the renewal and modernisation of the public sector – from word to action. There are now concrete measures we are discussing. There is nothing to hide from the fact that what has caused the most conflict in our committee in this fiscal year is the discussion of making State Consulting AS. On the part of the Labour Party, this was an important issue in the budgetary negotiations with the government parties in the Financial Committee. We wanted to go against the Statskonsult becoming AS. Unfortunately, we did not get along with that. I think that many, perhaps among the government parties, would have been happy if we had won forward. We would have gotten away with a lot of trouble, if it had been clarified already there. Now, State Consultant is to be converted into AS, and it is to be done from the New Year, as set out in the budget proposal. We don't think there are very good arguments to turn what is the modernizing unit of the state into a separate company. We think it's an advantage to have a State Consultant who has a different way of working, and who can present their results in a different way from what AS Consulting Companies do. There is no shortage of consulting companies in this country – we have more than enough of them, and they actually have too little job as it is, unless we start our own state. We need a government unit that can do a real job of looking at where we can modernise, how we can modernise, and then spread those results to the maximum possible – not an AS that's going to think: where can we find customers, what can they pay, and how can we get others to pay for exactly the same thing we've got someone else to pay for before? That's what a cost-effective AS has to think. We don't want the modernisation unit of the state to think that way. We also believe that the case was too poorly investigated, and in particular that concerned the issues of employee rights. Now the Municipal Committee has its own case on this matter in connection with the legislative proposal, but there is no doubt that what we have received from the Council of State is the very opposite of what he said in the hearing held by the Municipal Committee on 8 December. But after the Council of State got flat and provided the correct information, we do not see any reason to follow that case further. At least the rights of employees are now guaranteed. But this is important, because if the Storting had accepted the premises in the bill and the budget, then there would have been the fascination with what had been the employees' rights, and then the Storting had signed on to it. And the Minister of Labour and Administration could in his discussion with the employees say that the Storting has accepted these premises. Thanks to the vigilance of Stortinget, this was prevented, and the rights of employees were respected. If we had been misled by the Council of State, the opposite would have happened, then we would have actually deprived the employees of important rights. This committee also deals with the area of children and families. Fortunately, there is a broad consensus here. We reached a settlement in the spring when it came to the kindergarten bet, about which the whole Stortinget ended up. This does not mean that there is not much disagreement about other aspects of child and family policy. We have e.g. in our alternative budget, used the cash support for other purposes. We believe it does not correspond to the purpose of the government parties when it was launched. It has not resulted in a significant increase in the time that young children’s parents spend with their children. It has been shown that there are completely different responses the child family needs to get a better daily life. In the newspapers, the Christian People's Party regularly launches a desire to extend maternity leave, and especially for fathers – that is what this representative will fully support. However, it should soon be translated into a concrete proposal so that the Stortinget can actually adopt it and it can become a reality. Playbacks in the media thus help the young children’s parents little. We have discussed child protection and supervision in the past. I ask the Council of State to keep an alert eye on child protection supervision – and in particular on the consequences of the cuts in county offices for this – and possibly come back to the Storting with follow-up. I address the proposals of the Workers' Party alone, and those of which they are associated with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1157	The representative Trond Giske has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1162	The Workers' Party has supported several transformations of State administrative bodies into limited liability companies. When the government of Stoltenberg transformed BaneTele into a limited liability company, it was important for the Government to provide BaneTele framework conditions that were ‘more in line with private competitive operators in the telecommunications market’. They therefore proposed to transform into their own limited liability company exactly the same way as State Consultant is now transformed into AS, and exactly as Harlem Brundtland's government transformed Televerket into AS. I have a question for the representative Giske: BaneTele employees had to sign with the government Harlem Brundtland and Stoltenberg that they did not have waiting pay rights if they exercised the reservation right. With regard to discrimination, which is now under consideration, why did employees have greater security in the transformation of BaneTele than they do at State Consulting, which is organised in the same way?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1169	It is true that the Workers' Party has also participated on several occasions in transforming the organisation of state activities into a more appropriate form. Now, in this case, we believe that the very transformation actually leads to a less appropriate organisation of the state's modernization unit, but now let it go. Here's the question of employees' rights. The essential question is whether the employees are offered ‘other appropriate services’. In his letter to the Workers' Party's fraction, on 28 November, the Council of State wrote that the right to a waiting wage will be lost, 'because he has rejected the offer of ‘other appropriate work’. At the hearing on 8 December, the Council of State says that he does not want to comment on such an assessment, for that assessment is the Aetate to do. So he says the exact opposite of the categorical conclusion he has in the letter, and it also says it in the proposition. What's the difference between this and BaneTele? Yes, in the State Consultant, we are alerting a large number of crews. Perhaps up to half of the employees have to stop. Then the question of having received ‘other decent work’ is very relevant, because there are very many who will perceive a future dismissal that is not ‘other decent work’.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1178	During the budgetary procedure in Stortinget this year, we have seen a number of cases in which the Labour Party speaks against a case, but votes in favour. We have registered in this case in the case of State Consultant, that the Workers' Party is very negative in the rhetoric, one is negative in the form of the comment, one is strongly critical in the form of the inserts. I'm just wondering if we can get a clear yes or no in this context. Is it the case that the Labour Party is going to vote in favour of the proposal or against the proposal? According to what I understand, it is such that you intend to vote in favour of the proposal, and then you might have to be a little less obsessive and a little less offensive in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1183	It is very clear from the wording that the question of turning Statskonsult into an AS is to consider a so-called framework-dependent proposal, i.e. that it is adopted in the same club sequencing as the other budget to which the Workers' Party is obliged to give its subsidiary consent under the budget agreement. There is no doubt that there is great disappointment in us that we did not win in the budget negotiations at that very point. Now, when we are evaluating this budget debate together, and certainly in months to come, I think that the Labour Party will probably not, to the degrees that the Progress Party has clear, end up with an outsizing of the budget that you yourself have voted for, immediately after the budget has been adopted. But there are clear points where we actually disagree deeply and feel that we have lost important battles. That might be in any budgetary agreement, and we can see that with our eyes open. But I think that in the art of running from a budget that you have voted in favour of, we still have much to learn from the Progress Party!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1191	Child insurance is the main and largest transfer scheme for families with children. It is a safe source of income for low-income families. In the budget agreement with the Right and Christian People's Party, the Labour Party has reduced child welfare by 27 million. kr more than that resulting from the Government's proposal. This hits them with the lowest income. How can the Workers' Party defend their inclusion of this proposal in this budget agreement? And how can the Workers' Party defend that they will vote subsidiaryly to convert State Consultant into an AS, when there is no coverage for employees' rights in this budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1196	It'll always be like this when you make a deal, that there are things that you're very happy to have, for example. the extensive investment in the municipal sector that we made in the conciliation, the extensive investment in the hospital sector that we have been given, the extensive investment in transport that we have been given. Some of the small measures we have taken in the field of culture are also important to us in the Workers' Party. Then there are certain things for which we are not so happy. That we didn't get into the Statskonsult case, I think maybe at the top of that list. Now I am convinced that if there had been a settlement between the government parties and the Progress Party, there would have been no less AS of State Consultant. Then it might have been that one had been pushed further, that is to say, to what the Progress Party primarily wants, a privatized State Consultant AS. There would have been no better solution. On the contrary, we have obtained a clear understanding of the rights of employees through the Storting case, so that we know that even if you choose to stay in the state, you have a right to a different position and to be able to assess the expected salary. In the case that the child's back is rounded to the nearest dime, i.e. maybe four to five cents per. month in reduced child welfare, I think most can take the ‘heavy’ promise it will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1205	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1208	First a few words about area 2, the Ministry of Children and Family. We should not forget that we have two framework areas for treatment now. I guess we should also focus a little on box 2. It concerns the government appropriations for equal opportunities and for the organisations of the gays. The Progress Party believes that it is wrong to adopt selective measures for healthy and ready-to-work adult people only on the basis of gender or sexual orientation. We believe that women and men, whether heterophilic or homosexual, know their own needs and rights, and that they themselves can take care of them in relation to any discrimination that may take place. We are therefore proposing strong cuts in these areas. In fact, we seem to make special measures is to devalue the individual in relation to its sex or sexual orientation. With regard to the other points of view of the Advance Party in the framework area 2, the representative Woldseth will elaborate them in his statement. In the following, I will focus on Framework Area 1. It is perhaps in this area the Progress Party is most disappointed by the sitting government in general and the Right in particular. We have not concealed that we have had great expectations for the Ministry of Labour and Administration in connection with Norman's taking over the management of the department. For us, there has been an endless series of disappointments: no reductions in public bureaucracy, no efficiency, no rationalisation, a move message that was both expensive and poor, revelations of lack of respect for the legislation and meters of restaurant bills – and finally a relatively clumsy handling of the State Consultant case. If we compare with other countries, it is beyond doubt that Norway has a growth in the public sector that is completely out of control. Both in Sweden and Denmark, this development has been stagnated, without these countries being accused of ravaging their welfare systems. In Norway, however, the arrow points only one way, and it is upward. So even with today's budget, there are increases in bureaucracy. There is a alarming need for concrete projects to improve efficiency and launch competition in Norway, but little is happening, and the small one is able to do away with. Otherwise, there's something you should think about a little bit, that if we had a government that had taken some real hold on this area and shown the way, we might not have had such a big crisis in Kommune-Norway, and there might have been savings that would have led the local economy to live with. First of all, the Progress Party has a budget proposal within the AAD that cuts and considerably streamlines. However, we have to bear in mind that the Cooperative Government seems to be impotent in this area. We have on this basis, and on the basis of the fact that the Government has now entered into very close cooperation with the Workers' Party, decided that we would be careful with the figures presented in the financial position regarding the AAD. Therefore, we do not promote a separate option within framework area 1, only some individual proposals to put a finger on some specific issues. One of these issues is the need for more offensive measures on the ICT side of administration, including: in the case of electronic signatures. With this, I would like to address the proposals of the Advance Party within the framework areas 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1225	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1230	I guess the Progress Party, after all, is a little bit concerned with equality between women and men. But what they're not concerned about, at least, is that the public is going to spend money on equality. They cut into all budget lines that have to do with equality, and they go out of all comments that deal with equality. We know that without an active gender equality policy it will take over 100 years before we reach the targets. I wonder what procedure the Progress Party will use to achieve its objectives. Maybe they don't have a goal, and do they therefore think that equality comes of itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1235	This is a well-known Workers' Party review theme. In fact, equality, for example, is about women in leadership. If you go back to the 1980s, maybe it was 20-30 pst. of those who went to college and took management training, who were women. Per. Today it is over 50 pst. So if we give this ten years, for example, it's going to be ten years. the problem in relation to women in senior management positions resolves itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1240	Since the representative Knudsen did not go deeper into the area of children and families, I find it tempting to ask him a question about it. In their alternative budget, the Progress Party writes that they believe it is ‘unbelievablely naive’ to use funds for the life courses that the Government has received in the treatment of the family communication and that we see in the beginning of this budget. Would the representative Knudsen repeat from Stortinget's pulpit that it is incredibly naive to believe that it is possible to try to prevent a break in life so that children can not experience a breakdown in their family?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1247	As far as I remember, the representative Rafiq was not present when we dealt with the family message, but I can confirm that I said from the pulpit that I thought it was naive – yes. The representative may be able to obtain a copy of that debate. What might be tempting is to justify it a little bit more. I think that if you're really going to do something about the life problems people have, you're going to have to bring in more than a short one-day course in the middle of the mammoth, where you have a lot of other things to think about than just going on the course, to say it like that. So I think the government's proposal for a one-day course is too slippery. It simply won't bring anything with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1252	Now I want to say something about breast-feeding, but I'm not going to do it. I could say a lot about it. [[Laughter]] But now there are some claims made by the Progress Party on gender equality policy. These statements have been made several times by Knudsen. Now I want him to elaborate on what he means by them. One claim is that they think it is regrettable that today's equality policy seems to be based on having a fight between two poles. Is it possible for the Progress Party to elaborate on what they are actually building on? The second claim is that gender equality is superfluous all the time when the starting point is that women and men are equal, and that the rest depends on competence, not gender. The Progress Party believes that women have less competence than men, although they now often have higher education than men, and that is why they are excluded from the boardroom, for example.?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1261	When we talk about poles, of course, we're talking about putting women and men artificially up against each other, which is what you do, among other things. through a quota policy. We in the Progress Party believe that women are at least as intelligent as men, and we believe that they can get into executive positions, into executive positions in companies, and that it is the right form of equality, that is, to treat people the same way. It's a little bit in the word equality, treating people alike will be the right way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1269	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1272	The Socialist Left Party is committed to maintaining a strong and vital public sector that ensures access to welfare services according to needs, irrespective of economic or social resources. The government’s modernisation society emphasises greater efficiency, and the instruments are the outsourcing and privatisation of core tasks. The OECD has carried out a study on the experience of public service outsourcing and outsourcing. Most of the countries surveyed by the OECD have gained the same negative experience. The launch and release of competition have proved to be bureaucratic, inefficient and undemocratic. The control of welfare services by politicians is weakened. The same is true of people's trust in services, administration and the political system. The OECD conclusion is clear. None of the countries analysed put more emphasis on the release and outsourcing of competition to renew the welfare state. The privatisation instruments of the government are immature and inefficient. We're reducing the cap. 1500 with 55 million. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Modernisation work related to the Ministry of Labour and Administration is largely anchored in cooperation with employees. I would like to refer to the State Council Victor Norman's statement on 24 January 2002, from words to actions, which I have done many times. He says in his statement that modernisation in the public sector is impossible if not those who work there are involved in the process. A key prerequisite for a better public sector is therefore a human resources policy that is motivating. He also says that total cost accounts should be made in case of major conversions of services. Total cost calculations will make the effect visible and make decision-makers aware. Governments are not doing this in their conversion and efficiency work, and I have little faith that he will succeed. Bad municipal economy over several years has led to reduced operation and continuous conversion in several municipalities. An employer policy must be pursued in the public sector where equal pay, working time, career opportunities and skills development are key elements. Part-time jobs that do not confer social security rights must be abolished. Projects such as the 6-hour trial, the conversion of the temporary budget into permanent posts and increased basic staff must be started. SV is set to 100 million. to it in its budget. The Socialist Left Party will vote against converting State Consultant into a limited liability company. The State should have its own professional body for efficiency, organisation, management, IT, etc. It is not the responsibility of the State to operate a consultancy firm to compete in the market. It is important to maintain State Consultant as a tool for implementation with a critical and independent role. The Council of State has acted critically in this matter by giving various and misleading answers as regards the rights of employees to choose the country as their employer and the right to a waiting wage. Turns have again gone too fast, and cost analyses are not sustainable. There is also no coverage for this transformation in the budget. As I said earlier today, it is incomprehensible that the Workers' Party provides subsidiary support for conversion to AS. We hope the Progress Party can support our proposal to postpone the conversion of State Consultant until we get a case on this to Stortinget. The people have reported that they do not have enough resources to carry out their supervisory tasks, but despite this, the budget is reduced by 3.6 pst. Resources shall also be allocated to the county offices in order to establish their own posts to ensure the Government's commitment to conversion and efficiency in the municipalities. This proposal by the Government is badly linked to municipal freedom, and a clear political role is assigned here to the county. SV strengthens the county budget by 50 million. kr in its alternative budget. A society offering equal opportunities and rights to children and young people needs to be provided. Child poverty must be combated. It cannot be accepted that there are thousands of children in Norway, in the richest countries in the world, living under persistent poverty. The employment relationship and the return to work of parents/suppliers who have been excluded from the labour market will be the best way to reduce long-term poverty alongside cash transfers to families with children. Kindergarten is good for children. The maximum price and full child care coverage are a prerequisite for families with children to have a genuine choice of care options for the children. A good childcare facility helps to strengthen the children’s lifelong learning process. It was a happy day when the kindergarten agreement was a fact in the spring of 2003. The agreement has not been properly followed up in this draft budget, and there has again been considerable uncertainty in the municipalities. We now hope, when the Committee has unanimously clarified how this is to be done, that we can relax around the kindergartens and get the incentive, equal treatment of private and municipal kindergartens, sibling moderation and grants to children with special needs. Now we have to fold up our sleeves and build kindergartens. The cash support has shown that it does not work as intended. It has not increased freedom of choice, nor has it significantly increased the time that parents and children have together. SV will pursue a family policy that facilitates good care for children, while at the same time enabling parents to combine the role of parents and work through equal parenthood. SV shall remove the cash support from its budget from 1 January 2004. In our alternative budget, cash support funds are mainly used to strengthen the local economy, to help children and young people and to promote gender equality. In our budget within the framework, the funds are mainly used to reintroduce the baby supplement, to adjust the price of child benefit and to create a new item 60 under cap. 857 in response to children and young people in municipalities, a transfer to municipalities of over 1.3 billion kroner. Child social security is one of the most important cash transfers to families with children. In St.meld. No 6 for 2002–03; Action plan against poverty, the Government shows that child welfare is an important source of income for the low-income group. Adoption aid in Norway is lower than in the other Nordic countries. Therefore, in its alternative budget, SV raises the adoption aid to the basic amount of 1 G of the population’s rights. Child protection suffers from a lack of resources to help children and parents in a serious crisis. Child protection is now in a major transition phase when, from 1 January 2004, it is established as State Children’s Protection and Family Protection. The SV opposes the establishment of only five regions and considered that the region of the East should be located outside Oslo. We believe that the location in Oslo is not consistent with the government's policy of moving state jobs out of Oslo. This should be a matter of course in the case of new start-ups. Child protection needs to be strengthened both in terms of resources and in terms of staff. At the same time, we need an increased research effort to understand the background to serious behavioural problems. It is necessary to explore the measures we are taking in the field of child protection so that we can gain more knowledge of what measures are targeted and good enough. SV strengthens the 10-million child protection measures chapter. kr in its alternative budget, and children’s and young people’s actions receive a strengthening of 44,5 million. kr. The government does not follow up with money for action for children and young people. It is disappointing to see that the Government chooses to reduce the effects of the drugs, such as drugs. to Freefonds. The challenges facing children and young people are large and not offensive enough from the Government. SV increases the grant to Frifond by 22 million. kr. Problems with the financing of several crisis centres and incest centres in the country have long been reported, as well as with wear and tear with unsafe operating conditions, summer closures and closures. At the same time, there is an increase in the use of centres. The crisis and incest centres play an important role for violent and incestuous women and children. It is serious that we have not done anything about the funding mechanism for the crisis and incest centres in the 2004 budget. The 50 pst grant scheme. State operating grants are continued despite the long-term threat of closure of several crisis centres. The use of resources at crisis and incest centres is currently more a result of available resources than the real needs of users. This is not predictable for the operation of crisis and incest centres. We promote a proposal beyond Framework 1 and therefore vote against the Committee's position on Framework 1. We have our own proposal for Framework 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1316	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1319	I want to say from this pulpit that the Socialist Left Party and May Hansen in particular show genuine commitment when it comes to child protection and social care. I think the representative should be commended for that. But also in this field, the Socialist Left Party has more money for all good purposes all the time. It was a majority in favour of the state taking responsibility for child protection. The representative of May Hansen was very concerned with the geographical location. I'm asking her to take a round on it. In addition, I would like to ask the representative Hansen if she has coverage to claim that girl violence is increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1326	It is easy to use money for good purposes when you have removed the cash support. It's going to cost about $2.5 billion to spread over good measures. With regard to the location of the regional office in Oslo, I believe it is quite problematic when we see that Oslo is not to be organised like the rest of the country. I mean, Oslo has to go on like today. Oslo will continue as a municipality and county municipality, and then it will be quite difficult to understand why you place a regional office there. Victor Norman has moved out a lot of supervision. He says that more jobs should be moved out of Oslo. Then it's hard to understand that you're putting a regional office there. In the case of girl violence, there is a development that is quite serious. I've been talking to scientists just before we deal with this budget, and they're worried about the evolution we're now seeing. We see that from the Statistical Central Bureau, and we see that from various research reports. We have to do something about this. This needs to be researched more.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1335	When I hear the representative of May Hansen, it sounds like there's a museum manager talking: they're against modernisation, they're against efficiency, they're against competition, and they're against the tools that are needed to provide the population with more and better services and get more of the money we're actually responsible for managing. The government, through its proposal to convert State Consultant into a wholly owned limited liability company, has shown that it has faith in the competence of its employees. This belief in the competence of the State Consultant is shared by the right. The full public sector, including counties, municipalities and state-owned enterprises, should benefit from the expertise of the State Consultant. Why does SV believe that it is only the central government that is today to use the competence of the State Consultant, and why does the representative Hansen not believe in the competence of the State Consultant?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1342	SV is by no means opposed to public sector conversion. We want a vital public sector that provides good services to users. Initially in my post I said that Victor D. Norman had two good points in his presentation that I was very optimistic about the time he said that. He really says that you have to make a total bill to see that this pays off, and you also have to consider whether this provides good services. Of course, we believe that there is competence in the State Consultant. There is a very high level of competence, which, because they now have an independent role and are not bound up, can be used in the various departments and in the public sector around them. We believe that it is completely unnecessary in a market where there are enough consultants, and where it is difficult to get a job, that the state should run a consulting firm to operate in the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1351	I have to say that I find it interesting to hear that SV wants a vital public sector. Now we have looked at our framework areas, and we also see in other proposals how SV proposes a massive build-up of public institutions. That there's something particularly vital about it, it's very bad to see. Within framework 1, a number of cuts have been proposed to ensure that modernisation does not take place, and that may not be very strange. With SV's arrangements, where we would get a much larger public sector, we'll get a pretty big build-up of bureaucracy, of agencies to deal with more public employees, and more public institutions. It might have been interesting to hear what SV thinks the budget for Framework 3 would look like if SV's plans for the central government were to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1358	SV does not vote against modernisation of the public sector. We say that we do not trust the reorganisation strategy that is now in the Ministry of Labour and Administration. If you look at the draft budget for SV, you blow the frame by 42 million. kr. It is largely linked to the fact that the county council does not have the ability to carry out the supervision it is required to carry out under the law. We believe that it is very difficult to defend that we have child protection institutions around this country that are not supervised by the county council. After all, the county budget is reduced by 60 million. kr, when we know that public oversight is not exercised. As far as bureaucratic organisation is concerned, it is precisely the modernisation and efficiency the Council of State uses, which is bureaucratic. That's what the OECD's report says. I can also show that from my own municipality, which now runs 120 million. more expensive after privatisation and competitive outsourcing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1367	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1370	In the case of Framework 1, and in particular the matter that has been debated a lot, State Consultant, I will refer to my colleague from the Right, Sonja Sjølis, excellent posts. But I would also like to stress that the model of conversion of the State Consultant proposed by the Cooperation Government, including the rights of the employees, follows exactly the same model as for other transformations proposed by the former governments. Here I believe that tolerance from the left-hand side usually means that you have to be within the accepted group to be tolerated. But I wish that when it comes to being able to read the facts, we can be in all kinds of groups. I'm going to focus most on frame 2. The family is the child's starting point, and in our efforts to give our children the best possible start, the effort for the families is important. Investing in the growth of children is the most important thing we can do. For the Christian People's Party, the situation of families with a focus on children's situation has always been central. In the year that has passed, the Committee has examined several major communications which have just touched on the situation of children. Children and young people's growing-up conditions, child protection messages and family messages are all messages that will make us as a society better able to provide the support we need, but they also provide a basis to equip families and the community to provide their own. An increasing proportion of children and young people experience problems related to psychosocial issues, such as stress, anxiety and the like, which in turn can lead to some children developing behavioural problems. At the same time, we know that the family is essential for children's development and experience of belonging and security. In order to prevent problems among children and young people and to provide support to parents in the care and mission role, parental guidance is central. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government has clear goals and projects in place to strengthen parental guidance, focusing on developing positive family communication and interaction. The programme represents a voluntary offer to parents under the direction of, among others, health centres, family centres, kindergartens, schools and family protection. The parental guidance programme is the starting point for reaching all parents. Parents with a non-Western minority background are a group that has not previously had its own offer. Parental guidance allows minority parents to gain knowledge of relationships that are important to their ability to understand the cultural codes of Norwegian society, thus enabling them to understand and assess what conditions are important for them and the growth of their children in Norwegian society. Being a parent is a big and responsible task. The father’s role in growing up is important for children who grow up. Fortunately, the importance of father’s presence has become clearer. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that the papers be extended to all, but it is also important to extend the length of the paper. It also turns out that where my dad took out his perm, the chance of a breakup is reduced by 30 pst. It gives a safer frame around the growth of children. The Women's Violence Committee presented its position on 4 December. They should look at the situation of women and children exposed to violence in close relationships, how public authorities can improve the supply of victims of violence and how this type of violence can be prevented. The Committee has prepared an interim report on the crisis centres in connection with the conversion of the grant scheme. The selection will further assess the quality and content of crisis centres and the need to legislate. The committee's investigation, with its conclusions, is now complete. The report will be sent at wide consultation and will be followed up in the 2005 budget. The Christian People's Party believes that a scope study should be carried out to show Norwegian conditions. The figures from other countries are alarmingly high, and we are obliged to examine the extent of Norway. Crisis centres offer temporary residence to women and their children in a state of crisis due to violence. In addition, the centres provide advice and guidance and perform prevention and information work, also targeting the public utility. Since 1986, the number of residents in the crisis centres has been relatively stable and ranged between 2,200 and 2,900 women. The Christian People's Party believes it is very important that children in crisis centres get the help and support they need during and after their stay. We are therefore pleased that funds should be allocated to such work, and that concrete measures such as this can be sought. staff guidance, technical assistance for children, etc. Targeted cooperation between crisis centres, municipal auxiliaries and regional units in the field of family and child protection will be important in order to enhance the child-care skills of staff at crisis centres. Family protection is an important tool in dealing with families. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, family protection must become more visible to the population, and I am pleased that an information strategy for family protection is being implemented. These include: the need to raise public awareness that life problems are a common phenomenon, that they concern you and me, and that there are offers that can help in such situations. We in the Christian People's Party believe it is important that preventive work is given strong priority. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Storting in the setting of the family message, all except the Advance Party, joined the offer of a one-day life course for the first-born. Prevention of family work is aimed at helping families to live better together, preventing problems of interaction between parents and children and preventing family disintegration. This will have a positive impact on society in both human and economic terms. Therefore, the work of family protection in the field of lifelong learning and parental guidance is important. The law on equality was amended in 2002 and was adopted, among others. a reinforced equal pay determination by clarifying that the requirement of equal pay for work of equal value applies regardless of whether the work belongs to different subjects or belongs to different collective bargaining agreements. In addition, Odelstinget adopted the Act on the Representation of Women in Governments. There are constant changes and measures being taken, but today the gender equality barometer was presented, and it is frightening that we are standing still in many areas. Action on legislative work is important, but changes in attitudes and active measures are also important. The Christian People's Party will be a driving force for this. There were still a large number of communications to the child protection service in municipalities in 2002. A total of 25 600 new messages were received in 2002. This is about 9 pst. more than in 2001. It is important that we be able to provide early and appropriate assistance to vulnerable and disadvantaged children and young people and their families. Good quality of services and measures and high legal certainty at all stages of the treatment of child protection issues are a fundamental objective. This presupposes inter alia: a timely and adapted regulatory framework, new and up-to-date competence, flexible actions and good cooperation and exchange of information between service providers and involved establishments and the users of the Child Protection Service. Foster housing is the most important care measure in the field of child protection. According to half-yearly reports from the county officials, about 6,100 children and young people were placed in foster homes in 2002. Of these, about 1 400 children were placed as voluntary relief measures with the consent of their parents. The need for foster homes was mainly met, but it is difficult to recruit foster homes for young people because the youth group often has more complex problems. A nationwide recruitment campaign was therefore planned in 2002 in all counties for implementation in 2003. In order to improve the recruitment and training of foster parents, it is necessary to continue to focus on development work in county municipalities. I would like to underline the Committee's and the Government's objective that the supervision visits in foster homes must be carried out and that they must be of good quality. Necessary reporting will be undertaken to monitor closely developments in the foster home area. It appreciates the Christian People's Party. Many have probably realized that for the Christian People's Party, the cash support is a sacred cow, and it is. But we're concerned that the cow should feel the best possible. That is why we are pleased that the Department has signaled that it has commissioned NOVA to look at the consequences of the cash support, especially in relation to children's protection. The project includes a survey of the use of cash support and childcare among child-restraint children, the relationship between volunteering and coercion at kindergartens such as relief measures, the relationship between family economy and child-rescue measures and the consequences of the cash support in relation to the importance of kindergarten as the arena for the detection of care failure. The report will be available in February. The Christian People's Party is pleased that Storting's kindergarten policy is also being followed up, and that the Government has a high pressure to give parents more and cheaper places. We need that if we are to have an active and good family policy. For the Christian People's Party, flexible family policies are important, so families have choices that meet different needs. Here you must also be able to combine good values that are both in home-based care and in the pedagogical services of kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1415	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1418	The representative Eriksen also uses the example of BaneTele and other previous changes in the public sector as proof that the Council of State in this case is doing, and he writes that one will not be entitled to wait pay if one chooses to stay in the state, is done earlier and must be correct. Now the government itself has fixed it. Either that's what he said before, that's right, or what he's saying now, that's right. You have to choose whether it is the previous statements of the Council of State or the current statements of the Council of State that apply. Both cannot be correct at the same time. What is absolutely essential is what is on page 54 of the Council of State's own motion, on the need for manning out of the new State Consultant AS: ‘The need for staff may include about half of the number of employees.’ That means that if you join the new company, you might have 50 pst. the chance of leaving without work after a short period of time. It is a very timely question as to whether it can be considered as an offer for other appropriate work. We're approaching Christmas now. Some employees of the State Consultant will have to sit and discuss with their families during the Rome Jubilee if they want to join us over 50 pst. a chance of dismissal or of staying in the country. Is it Christian People’s Party’s view that this is a good family Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1430	First of all, it's in the note that the government parties have entered, clarified what is applicable. When it comes to the downkeep, I would like to refer to the setting, where it is, among other things. states that the parties to the government: ‘will stress the need to review any depopulation resulting from the transformation in such a way as to avoid imposing unnecessary burdens on individuals and families’. We've just taken into account that it's going to be difficult, but it's wrong to say that we're assuming downpours. What's right to say is that we take into account that there can be down crews. That's why we're adding, among other things. restructuring funds. State consultants are now given the opportunity to provide services to the entire public sector, not only central government, but also to the private sector. Statskonsult may therefore have more employees than they have today. I would also remind you that in connection with the transformation of State Consultant into an AS, exactly the same practice as other governments of different political colors have followed for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1447	We just heard that the Christian People's Party wants to expand the paper commission by six weeks, which is going to cost the state NOK 1.2 billion. Now we have introduced cash support. We have a broad deal about full kindergarten development, and we also have a deal about cheaper kindergartens. Do not Christian People's Party now think that the families of children have had enough, or do you want to further benefit from this group in Norwegian society?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1452	For the Christian People's Party, it's not skeptical to make arrangements for children and fathers to have more time together. There is a future commitment to growth for children who are very important. The importance of having a father at home has in many respects been important for the Progress Party, in terms of community rights and a number of things. So I think it's strange that you don't see that increasing the paper issue is also important in relation to children's growth. We're going to work on action in all areas. We're not going to see if this fits into what we've done in other areas if we think this is important. The paperwork is in itself important, and the Christian People's Party is going to have a strong commitment to this matter also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1457	The Women’s Violence Committee has made its recommendation regarding the crisis centres. The committee has recommended that the crisis centre offer be legislated in a separate crisis centre law. It is also necessary to require staff qualifications and the provision of assistance to children and young people in crisis centres needs to be developed. Crisis centres should be provided with a financial framework and training provision in accordance with extended requirements. Administrative responsibility for crisis centres is recommended to be transferred to the State Children's Protection and Family Protection. From the point of view of SV, the good recommendations that now come from the Women's Violence Committee are, in line with much of what we have meant all along. I now wonder how the Christian People's Party views these recommendations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1462	We have been waiting a long time for the submission of the Women's Violence Committee report. We have referred many times to the Women's Violence Selection in this room, and that their attitude should come. We think it's too early already after seven days, or maybe it's a little bit more, to conclude at all points. We think it's very interesting that we now have an overall review. There are a lot of elements in the Women's Violence Committee report that we're going to go very closely into. It shall also be sent to the hearing. We're going to come back to it and have a broad debate. But in the case of crisis centres, I can assure the representative that our Council of State, Laila Davøy, has a strong commitment to find a way to secure them and provide a stable offer. The role of crisis centres, underlines the Women's Violence Committee, is very important in relation to our efforts to take care of and provide help to women living under very difficult conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1469	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1472	This is a diverse policy area. Here you can switch between Child Protection, Crisis Centre and State Consultant. It may also be alarming that in the Chamber the Minister for Children and Family Affairs of the one side and the Council of State in charge of the Ministry of Labour and Administration of the other. So there's a demanding committee to sit in. I'll take for myself Framework Area 2. From the Center Party's side, we'll come back with posts when it applies to Framework Area 1. The nursery arrangement in ours was a demanding process, but the result I will characterize as one for young children's parents and their right to kindergarten at an affordable price. I would like to highlight the positiveness of the fact that there is a group of committees that are behind the budget setting and what is related to babysitting. Those who are in practice implementing the childcare arrangement, the municipalities and the private kindergartens largely end up talking about the financial framework in the proposal, but it has also been claimed that any unclear point or unintended effect will only occur after the reform has been implemented. I would therefore like to make it clear that the reform should be fully financed, which is also covered by a single committee. It is important that the Council of State follows these developments closely and returns to Stortinget with a case if it turns out that the financial resources are not present. It is also a challenge to achieve the objectives set by the Storting when it comes to the development of new places. I am pleased with the clarification the Council of State in the form of letters has given to the Storting when it relates to investment grants versus the VAT reform, and I think it is affordable for the Council of State to clarify a situation that could contribute to confusion and doubt about the economy when it comes to new kindergartens. Hardly any family policy reform has created as much debate as the introduction of cash support. That's probably where the biggest differences in Norwegian family policy go. The centre party acknowledges that we contributed to the cash support being introduced, but we do not want to continue and escalate today's model. All young children’s parents should have real freedom of choice with regard to how they want to organise their daily lives. We don't have such an option until the kindergarten reform is realized. Children’s and young children’s supplements have been an important tool in improving the economy of their young children’s parents. Studies have also shown that small children’s families were strengthened at the time of the introduction of the small children’s supplement. Unfortunately, it is now gone, which the Center Party voted against. Child welfare has continued for several years at the same rate, leading to a significant loss for the families of children. This is a social welfare scheme that is independent of parents' finances, and which we think should be priced in line with price developments elsewhere in society. One-time pay at birth and adoption is also not price adjusted. This applies to a group of women living at home who are under education or who do not have sufficient previous professional activity to satisfy the conditions for entitlement to ordinary birth money. There are not so many of these debts, and according to the opinion of the Centre Party, this item should automatically be price adjusted. The economic situation of crisis centres is serious, and there is a need to clarify a new funding model. The centre party still believes that there is a need for ear-marked appeals to crisis centers. As things stand today, municipalities are free if they want to allow money for this or not. Unfortunately, there are many municipalities that do not make contributions, which in turn leads to less benefit from the state. I urge the Council of State to give high priority to this work, so that the Storting can get this case to be dealt with as soon as possible. I assume that the Council of State has noticed the multiplicity setting when it applies to Freefonds, and that the funds should be collected in one department, namely the Ministry of Culture. This is in line with the wishes of the umbrella organisations. Collecting funds in one department will lead to a simplification for users, and I urge the Council of State, in consultation with the Minister of Culture, to take these signals seriously. The adoption support is a different area of the Center Party that wants to prioritise. I have noticed today that the Christian People's Party is going in to expand the paper commission. It seemed to me to be positive, but I react a little bit at the time, considering that we have just dealt with the family message, and that there is nothing about it in the budget position. When it comes to State Consultant, it has been a demanding task for the Committee. We're going to deal with three departments, and that we need clarification letters, has not made this work easier. So a explanation of vote: I asked that it be voted over V in Framework Area 1 before proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The centre party then votes against the frame area 1. We are voting against framework area 2, but for proposal No. 12 and I and II in the section. We are voting against framework area 3, but for proposal No. 38 and proposal No. 41 and I and II of the clause.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1500	I hope that I come at the right time this time. In my 5 minutes it is only possible to go into some parts of the setting, but since the Coastal Party is only represented in one committee, I allow myself to ask for the Government's comprehensive policy across the committees. The right seems quite proud when they say, we're changing Norway. The question is whether Norway wants changes that increasingly create insecurity and fear of the future in the population. The Coastal Party shares the Workers' Party's concern that the rapid and unaccompanied transformation and efficiency that the Government is running through undermines employee rights that have been established as our welfare society has evolved. Public servants in schools and care and healthcare are a resource and need to be treated as a resource, not as a problem. When teachers and health and care professionals are cancelled because of poor finances in the municipalities, the government's previously stated aim is to use wages as a means of recruiting these services. When older workers are pushed through the process of conversion, the aim is that more people should have a longer professional life. There are some older workers out there who want to work longer but are forced out of work. The ever lower retirement age in Norway is largely attributed to a lack of overall strength in the Government. The coastal area shares SV’s concern about the increasing burden on, in particular, care professionals, through increasingly stringent requirements for increased efficiency. A machine park can be made more efficient through technical improvements, but people cannot be equipped with several arms. The back cannot be replaced, and there is a limit to how fast the legs can jump. Driven against employees of health care institutions leads to shorter working lives for those who dare to enter these professions. It reduces the total labour force and increases the number of unemployed. The coastal party thinks this is a bad policy, from a holistic perspective. The Christian People's Party calls itself the family and care party. But care only seems to apply to families living according to the ideals of the Christian People's Party, and especially to small families with one child of cash support age, possibly one child in kindergarten and schoolchildren in a Christian private school — without the need for school leisure arrangements and with the leisure activities of the congregation. But Norway is a more diverse society than that. Alone, the caregivers have become increasingly difficult. There's an increasing number of poor children and parents here in the country. And I wonder what they feel when they are told over and over again through all media channels that we live in the richest country in the world. The government is proud that Norway is the country in the world that spends most of the taxpayers’ money on various more or less successful developing countries, such as the United Kingdom. youth policymakers are being sent out into the world to teach people living in extreme need, about democracy, or that a Norwegian company receives millions to produce water maps and water treatment facilities that are completely useless. How do our poor people applying to the Salvation Army to feed their children for Christmas, the government’s priorities in one of the richest countries in the world? The child's security is subject to 18 pst. in relation to price and cost growth over the last 10 years. The coastal party was in favour of the cash support, but not in order for it to be financed by reallocation of the funds transferred to the families of children. I am pleased that the Minister for Children and Family responded quickly to my question about a loan-funded gift party for Christmas, but it does not appear that she has fully realised that my question was more than just a question of the soundness of borrowing financing beyond the ability to pay. My concern is equally concerned about the signals sent out by the Minister of Finance: Buy expensive, great gifts. Make this Christmas an occasion when you can truly demonstrate with a good conscience how rich you are. Let the rich children come to school again over Christmas with gifts that cost more than a monthly budget for a poor family. What value signals does this give? In my childhood, demonstrating wealth was seen as a lack of education. It is those who can afford to say yes, who must have the moral responsibility to say no, if the hunt for status symbols is not to go beyond all boundaries, as we now see trends. How do children who are convicted of association with a parent who beats, drinks, is mentally unstable or has pedophile tendencies, Christian People’s Party’s care? Are they to be sacrificed for a longer period of family counseling and forced association until they break down and end up in the indecently long line of child psychiatric services? How do women and children living in violent conditions feel that crisis centres are shut down, while increased resources are to be set aside for a life course for couples who do not have problems? When the budget does not reach both – and, therefore, the Government prioritises those who do not need urgent help.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1527	In Prøysen’s rendering ‘Rome Christmas Dream’, one of the verses reads: ‘And if a met unr after the wall as laughed and said they would be with, then a hat saw a brother in the fifth grade as the red wall so they got to walk in peace.’ A fifth - grade brother is probably a lot of kids who should have had. The working party therefore wishes to maintain a strong focus on child protection and to ensure that these services have a high level of competence, quality and legal certainty. It is therefore important to provide proper help in time for children, young people and the surrounding family. I'm actually also concerned about all those who work with so heavy issues in the field of child protection. We are talking here about children who, in the worst case, are to be taken from their parents. The loyalty of children is well known from research and from practical life. We know that this is heavy, especially for the child and the parents, and often we see that the community also engages in these matters. But it is also a difficult decision to make for those who work in child protection. Therefore, their competence and experience are crucial when making such decisions. I am therefore concerned when I hear that newly educated young people are set to deal with such questions. The working party is concerned about the increasing number of child protection cases. We believe it is important that these matters be given priority, so that the children get the help and care they need. Control and supervision of child protection institutions and foster homes is also important. This is essential to ensure good growth conditions for the children involved. I believe that there should be demands on those working in such institutions, such as supervisors, support contacts or foster parents. I therefore ask the Council of State to consider introducing a system of certificates of good conduct for these. It is also important to stress that all foster homes should have their own supervisor. Both for children and for foster parents, this is an important scheme. Public follow-up is the key to ensuring that child protection is effective for the benefit of children. The working party has noticed that the county office has been cut off in its appropriations, despite the fact that the county officials have been assigned many tasks. The working party is particularly concerned that the supervision of child protection is not being properly supervised. Therefore, it is necessary to consider whether the tasks are proportionate to the inputs. We cannot see the children's situation isolated from the family's financial situation. Unemployment creates insecurity not only for the individual but also for the family. Uncertainty about the future is difficult to deal with too many. Many families have problems — problems that hit their children particularly hard. One often leads to the other. Bad economic conditions cause social problems, which in worst cases lead to increased family violence. The Committee on Women's Violence, which has just produced a public inquiry, says that it is important to make visible that children are also subjected to violence by men in close relationships. The committee stresses that it is unacceptable for children to grow up in a situation where they are exposed to this violence. Children need to be seen as independent subjects with their own needs and rights, and they need to get help quickly and in fact earlier than today. For the Workers' Party, it is important to ensure that the residual working capacity and life experience of the pensioners are maintained, and that it benefits the entire community. In particular, we see examples that older people can be good resource people in kindergartens. The working party does not want to change the contractual pension scheme now. For many who have been in the labour market for many years and feel tired, it has been good to know that there are schemes that allow you to retire earlier than at the age of 67. A contractual pension is such a scheme. I have registered that Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss has announced that the contractual pension scheme is in decline. I would warn against removing this scheme, for the sake of the many who, for health reasons, want to step down and end their working life with dignity. As a heathmark, I have experience with people who have often had hard work, such as forestry, and when they want to end their working life when they are 62 years old, they have to be allowed to do it. We also want pensioners to be able to engage in politics and social work without losing money on it. The government suggested in the budget that the employer’s contribution should be reduced accordingly in the contractual pension. This went against the Workers' Party, and in the budgetary agreement with the Government this was fortunately stopped.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1564	Let me first express satisfaction with the fact that the draft budget in the area for which I am responsible is essentially adopted by the Stortinget. I think it is very gratifying that budgetary cooperation with the Labour Party, which provides good results in general, also means that we have a budget in this area that is not only to live with, but is good for both the modernisation and conversion of the public sector in Norway and the provision of key functions. I particularly want to express satisfaction at the fact that it seems that most in the Committee feel that the scheme outlined to ensure the transfer of state supervision out of Oslo seems to be acceptable to the majority in the Grand Duchy, and that much of the concern expressed in a somewhat heated debate earlier this year does not seem to be confirmed in the budgetary position now. It has been claimed by the Progress Party – at the latest in the debate today – that we are not doing anything to reduce central bureaucracy. It was even claimed that our draft budget is up to 28 pst. increase in expenditure on own bureaucracy. This is wrong. Cape. 1500, the so-called own bureaucracy chapter, has to be corrected for two ratios to last year's budget if you're to get a proper picture of what's going on. One is that research funds that were previously on a separate budget chapter are chapters. 1575, transferred to cap. 1500. The other thing is, it's added 24 million. kr in contracts to State Consultant, which was previously part of the central allocation of State Consultant. If we correct for this, the budgetary agreement means a reduction in the operational expenditure of the Ministry of Labour and Administration of 40 million. kr, or 16 pst. from the balanced budget for this year to the budget for the following year. At the same time, net expenditure on central government services in the country is reduced by 60 million. kr in this draft budget. Overall, this means that what the representative Knudsen would well call expenditure on central bureaucracy – a term that I might not use – will be reduced by 100 million. kr only from this year's budget balance to the next year's budget. Then it is a little difficult to find cover for the representative Knudsen's claim that there are no reductions in public bureaucracy here. There has been an exhilarating debate in advance of the transformation of State Consultant. There should be respect for the need for a debate that puts the spotlight on all aspects of a case. The more important it is that, when the case is adopted, there is a general discussion of the outcome. I think it is gratifying to note that it is appropriate that the conversion of State Consultant is adopted with broad support, including support from the Workers' Party, even if one has indicated that one is against this. There's a lot of excitement about this. This means that when Statskonsult AS is going to operate as of 1 January, all the employees who are going to work there and who depend on Statskonsult AS to be a success, both in order to obtain good opportunities for development, in order to make use of their skills and in order to secure their jobs, will have a better starting point than if they are going into the job with a view of finding that there is a conflict on the part of Statskonsult AS at all should and will have a future. From the Government, we have a great deal of faith in the competence of the State Consultant. I note that the Workers' Party and SV have also expressed their faith in the employees of the State Consultant. It is important that we together give them support in the future because that faith is well-founded, and that through it they will have the opportunity to get many good contracts not only with the state centrally, but with state-run units and with municipalities and county municipalities. If possible, the faith expressed here in the Chamber must also be expressed to the individual employees of the State Consultant. And then we all have to try, I think, to convey that belief also in terms of the type: we think you deserve to seize the chance that you can get a job in Statskonsult AS.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1581	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1584	I fully agree that in order for the State Consultant to function as best as possible, it is important to keep as many of the competent employees as possible and the key personnel in the business. Now, I and the Workers' Party believe that the absolute easiest thing to do was to keep State Consultant as a governing body and not turn it into an AS. At that time, the whole issue that the Council of State is now facing had been solved. So I also want to add that this is also a question of information. It seems to the Council of State that it is sufficient for employees now to have 10 or 12 days of Christmas to decide whether to join a company where you might have up to 50 pst. chance of losing a job, or whether you're going to become a state employee and use that freedom of choice? Wouldn't it have been better to spend a little more time on this transition, so you could also build more trust between the councils and the employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1591	Now the employees have had plenty of time to get acquainted with the Government's proposal and thus have plenty of time to think about what you want. I would also like to clarify that the choice that employees will make now is not a choice between entering a company where it is up to 50 pst. chance of losing your job and staying on the street, or staying in a safe state position. One option is to enter an organisation where job opportunities depend on how good a job is done in relation to the market, and where, at the same time, waiting pay rights are guaranteed and preference in the state is guaranteed throughout the entire period that there may be uncertainty about the job. The second option is to make a reservation, get a right of priority to work in the state and have an unusually small chance, in our opinion, of getting a waiting wage. I think that choice should be simple. I hope that as much as possible will be included in Statskonsult AS, and our assessment is that you are much better assured if you do that than if you make a reservation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1596	Governments have tried several times to present the Government as a driver of modernisation and efficiency. The reality is that what you do is essentially job closure and relocation. I'm not going to start going into a number discussion and I'm going to put budget numbers in the head of the council, and then he's going to pay it back. Instead, what I want to focus on is a single area in which I am calling for initiative, and that is in terms of ICT policy for the public and private sectors. In our comments and proposals, we have pointed out that the country needs a national electronic signature and certificate infrastructure, a micro-payment system and a framework for electronic rights management. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of States support the initiative and proposals of the Progress Party in this area, and what will he do to ensure that these needs are addressed at national level?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1605	I can confirm that the Government has the same enthusiasm for the importance of ICT, including electronic signature, that the Advance Party has. We have therefore developed a strategy for ICT in general government, where good electronic signature solutions are one of the three areas of activity we have. But I want to say at the same time that you should be careful to think that simple centralized solutions are necessarily the way to go here. The experience I believe is from the point of view of efficiency in all areas is that the so-called simple key solutions rarely lead to the objective, while the solutions that systematically seek good local solutions and solutions that allow for good private/public sector adaptation are those that work best in practice. And that's the approach we've taken to the question of electronic signature.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1610	The OECD study shows that the Constitution of the Council of State for public sector conversion is bureaucratic and ineffective. I said it instead, and I say it again: I come from a municipality where this organization has been tried for eight years now. The result is a deficit of well over 100 million. kr. Why does the Council of State prescribe old and well-used medicine that is useless? That's the one question. The second question relates to the establishment in the counties of their own posts to ensure the Government's commitment to conversion and efficiency in the municipalities. This proposal is badly linked to municipal freedom, and it confers a clear political role on the county council. While imposing many more tasks on the county council, the budget here is reduced by 3.8 p.p., despite the fact that the county council is not doing its supervisory work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1617	Although, like most other public agencies, the county could probably use more money, it is our opinion that the county budget is sufficient to carry out the tasks of the county. No, we do not assign a political task to the county council, and there is no contradiction between the proposal that the county council should have an advisory and guidance function with the municipalities also in terms of modernisation, and that we have municipal autonomy in Norway. Having self - control is not the same as not being able to see and need good advice and guidance. So the question of the OECD. No, it is not true that the OECD has said that outsourcing and exemption only lead to red tape and inefficiency. But the OECD, like the Government of the Modernization Statement presented to the Stortinget last year, and referred to by May Hansen in the past, has a nuanced view of when competitive outsourcing and exemption can be useful. So it also has the government, and we're all on the OECD line on this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1624	The centre party disagrees that a State Consultant should be converted into an AS. But once this process is started, the Minister of Labour and Administration should be the one who knows more than anyone else the relevant legislation and is busy with tidy processes compared to those added. He would also be in a special class in relation to ensuring that 50+ employees are safe from work in a transition phase. The government has compared processes around Avinor, Most and Afi, among others. In all those cases, there was a longer time since decisions were taken in the Grand Duchy of Entrepreneurship – in the first two over a year, and in the last half a year. Does the Council of State really think that the raw run that has been set in motion here is an example of follow-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1631	It's not about anything rough. As I said earlier, employees have had plenty of time to get involved in our proposal. It is clear that it would have been a little easier for the employees if the Municipal Committee in Stortinget had not spent so long on getting the matter under way that it could not be dealt with in Stortinget at the date originally planned. But even with that delay, it is our clear assessment that the employees have had time to think through what you really want.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1637	It has not been so easy for employees to choose what to do when the rights of employees have not really been clarified before the Council of State was in consultation with the Municipal Committee on 8 December. The state councils make it like he's been saying the same thing all along. Then, I think, he has a different perception of the Norwegian language than what we have, because in a letter to our fraction on November 28th, the Council of State writes: «Worker» – i.e. non-participants – «will have a right of priority over another State position for one year, but not a right to a waiting wage, because he has rejected the offer of «other appropriate work».» This is a categorical statement that states that you do not have the right to a waiting wage. Then he writes in a letter to the municipal committee after the hearing: ‘I would like to clarify that it is Aetat, who, upon individual application by the individual, decides whether or not to allow him/her a waiting wage. It is therefore neither possible nor right for me to decide in advance on applications.» Then he writes that it may not be realistic that you can get a waiting wage, but he does not want to decide on applications. It's something quite different than the categorical sentence in the letter of 28 November. Similarly, with regard to the right of reservation, there are two different opinions. Finally, the committee leader said it was so important that it was only the Workers' Party that criticized it for being misleading. In the Municipal Committee, as I understand it, there is a majority who use the term ‘misleading’ about the Council of State’s information to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1656	We will probably have the opportunity to come back to this question in the discussion of the position of the municipal committee, which I have not seen, but as the representative Giske may know better than I do. But let me make it clear: I haven't misled the Stortinget. And if I should have done that, it's exactly the same deception as government councils from this government at other conversions, from the Stoltenberg government at the conversion of BaneTele, from the Bondevik I government at the conversion, among other things. by the Municipal Bank and by the Brundtland Governments. It has been quite common in these conversions to point out that those who make a reservation, as they are offered a different position in the new company, are not entitled to a waiting wage. However, it has been quite clear that this does not mean that individuals are deprived of the rights they have under the Civil Service Act, including for individual assessment when applying for Aetat. On the other hand, where we differ from previous treatment in this case, we do not require those who make a reservation to sign that they are not entitled to a waiting wage. It has been common, among other things. under the government of Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1663	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1666	Initially, I would like to say something about a life course. The party of progress is known to be negative to publicly paid life courses, because there are so many and good measures already available. But with all due respect, I cannot allow myself to reflect that after having heard the two previous speakers and read the newspapers in the last few days that perhaps those who are here in the house should enter into budgetary settlements with the government parties, be the first to try these life courses to at least communicate with each other elsewhere than in the public space. To say something in five minutes about the family budget is not an easy task. But I'm going to be brief about issues that are important to the Progress Party. Of course, I wish we had had greater influence on the budget, so that the matters that matter to us had more resources. But that is not the case when the government parties have now chosen to cooperate with the Labour Party on the 2004 budget. As far as our nuclear matters are concerned, we can see that we differ from the Committee's position at one point below the nursery chapter. We're proposing to increase the investment grant by 300 million. NOK to ensure that we can get 12,000 new babysitting places in 2004. Indeed, it is not certain that the projected figures for 2003 are correct. The reason for this is that the figures are based on assumptions from the different municipalities in the country. The population has reported figures showing that the number of applications — and the figures are real — is above 8 000. The remainder is forecast figures based on the plans of the municipalities and in relation to previous applications. This does not give us any new places, and we are actually in trouble for approx. 4000 places for the current year, which concerns the Progress Party. If we are to achieve full child-care coverage in 2005, we need to increase incentives for construction. Fortunately, the VAT compensation proposed at the outset has been altered in the course of the year by the Council of State, in order to provide for a transitional arrangement to give the developers greater predictability of their projects. It appreciates the Advance Party. But we're not sure if there's enough funding for this, and we therefore propose in our alternative a larger pot for investment grants than what has been proposed by the Government. With regard to the obligation of municipalities to treat children in a non-discriminatory manner, this is very important for the Progress Party. Not only does it apply to municipal equality, but of course it also applies to the state. The whole starting point for the Progress Party to be involved in last year's conciliation was precisely equal treatment. It is therefore good that we have been clarified in a committee comment, so that the municipalities do not now age against the private kindergartens because of poor finances. Through this comment, the Ministry has been given a clear mandate to ensure that municipalities treat public and private kindergartens in a non-discriminatory manner. Now we have heard from both the Christian People's Party, SV and the Workers' Party that the supervision of child protection institutions is worrying. We know through the Riksrevisions Document No. 3:10 on the follow-up and supervision of child protection that the statesmen do not do their job with supervision well enough. Despite this concern, no one supported the proposal of the Progress Party for free and independent child protection supervision. This is remarkable. I don't get all the words and actions to stick together. Another thing that concerns the Progress Party is the cost of the state acquisition of child protection. What was done when we decided to transfer responsibility to the state and complete the county tasks in the child protection sector, we fully agree. But there is something I do not understand, even after reading the matter again, where it was decided to set up 27 teams. It's okay that it's on the matter we dealt with this winter, that the department said they should come back in the regulation on how to organise the state child protection. But at least this was not the way the Progress Party had thought that the National Child Protection Service would work – 27 teams divided into different counties, which I assume will assist the municipalities in matters. It worries the Progress Party that this might be a disclaimer. Who is now responsible for the acquisitions and locations carried out in consultation with the professional teams? I'm asking because I don't know the answer. What worries me, too, is that the Council of States, when this has such structural and budgetary implications, has not taken any notice of sending us a briefing on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1694	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1697	On 11 June of this year, the government parties made a broad agreement with the Progress Party, SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre on the maximum price in kindergarten and increased public funding of kindergartens for the whole of this ageing period. In line with the agreement, the Government proposes to increase the budget for kindergartens by DKK 2.8 billion. in 2004 in relation to the 2003 budget. The broad consensus provided a good foundation for optimism and growth in the sector. We're already starting to see the results of this. I am very pleased with reports from the statesmen that indicate that the target number of new places to 12,000 children can be reached this year. I am therefore somewhat surprised that our conciliators express that they do not trust the Government to comply with what was agreed in the conciliation. In the work on parental and economically equivalent treatment regulations, the Government is following up the conciliation process, while ensuring the best solutions for users and owners. The parental payment policy will ensure that we get a maximum price of NOK 2 750. from 1 May 2004. It will also address the need for moderation arrangements for siblings and the need for low self-payment for families with low paying ability. The regulation on economically equivalent treatment follows both the kindergarten agreement and the Sem declaration that all kindergartens should be treated as equivalent to government grants. Both regulations will be sent to the hearing as soon as possible. A summary of the results of the hearing and the Government's proposals are sent to the Stortinget as its own case. At the same time, the government will brief the Storting on the device of the beauty pot. The Ministry is concerned that the criteria for the allocation of funds from the discretionary pool are made known to both municipalities and owners as early as possible. I am concerned that any deferral of information to municipalities and other builders could be a brake on the development and the goal of full needs coverage by 2005. Another area: Family violence is not a private matter. The Women's Violence Committee has recently given the NOU 2003:31, the Court of Justice of a non-violent life. The investigation makes some important premises for further work. In particular, the government is concerned with finding a good and appropriate management model and financing the crisis and incest centres. The various services need to be viewed in a context, including the crisis centres, the incest centres, Dixie and Alternatives to Violence. It is close to seeing the crisis response in the context of the new state regional level of child protection and family protection. Coordination of services will improve skills and professional development. At the beginning of the month, the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs held a meeting in which ATV and Centers for Crisis Psychology attended an exciting meeting. The Ministry of Children and Family Affairs called on these professional communities to cooperate on a project providing financial support for the further treatment of children at the ATV and Centers for Crisis Psychology. It is important that these experiences spread to the entire auxiliaries. The National Centre of Competence for Victims of Violence and Trauma will contribute to more holistic research and development of competences. A new action plan entitled ‘Vold in close relations’ will be presented in May 2004. This will focus in particular on strengthening prevention activities, including: through the establishment of a nationwide offer to victims of violence, measures specifically for children and the strengthening of the advisory function of migrant organisations. The year that is approaching the end has been very eventful for me. We have presented heavy issues in various areas: child protection, kindergartens and, above all, family policy. These are all areas of great importance for the Government, and where the course has been set in good cooperation with the Stortinget. It could therefore be tempting to say with Prøysen: ‘Now we see sleet and rest and breathe in a while’. However, as the 2004 budget and the position we are debating today clearly show, next year will be a year of implementation for important reforms and tasks awaiting joint action. Let me hope for all of us now that Christmas can give us a breath and thus a new energy for the next year!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1724	The President can support that. It's going to be line change. The time for tomorrow's meeting is soon to come. The President proposes that the meeting continue until the change of line is completed – and sees it as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1731	There were many pieces that fell into place in the June kindergarten agreement. Among other things, it was emphasised that it was important that sibling moderation be continued when the grant scheme for kindergartens is presented. It was absolutely necessary, so that with more children in kindergarten they could also benefit from reduced rates. Does the Council of State still believe that this is a responsibility for each municipality, as she wrote in a letter to the Committee? Or will she really take the conciliation seriously and come back to the Storting in good time before step 1 is introduced from May 1, 2004, with a separate case on how this will be implemented, as a joint committee has now asked?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1738	This is being followed up. As stated in the June kindergarten agreement, the Ministry shall establish a system of sibling moderation. We're going to do that. This is part of the hearing on parental pay, which is due from the Ministry in a short time. When this hearing is over, we will return to Stortinget, as the committee has unanimously requested in the vote. Today, all municipalities actually have sibling moderation schemes — good arrangements. Funds have also been put into the budget so that these arrangements can be continued. But we're coming back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1747	In connection with the treatment of Innst. O. No 26 for 2002–03 on the determination and modification of hazards, an overall committee said that the Government was encouraged to assess the impact of introducing an indexation or interest calculation on the sum repaid to the fathers who had been misjudged by danger. I have addressed this with the Council of State in the form of a written question and have been informed that something like this will be available in the spring of 2004. I think that is a very long procedure on a matter that must be relatively simple, I think. My question to the Council of State is, why does this take so long? Is this not a matter where you are either for or against, and then you put a position towards Stortinget or Odelstinget in such a context?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1754	I am firmly convinced of what I said earlier, that during the spring we will come back to Stortingen with this matter. What might seem very simple for the representative is perhaps a little more difficult when you're going to sit down and try to calculate these costs. It's actually a pretty extensive work, so we'll be back as soon as possible in the spring. I'll just have to hold on to it. Otherwise, I might say that in Sweden too, there is a great deal of interest in this amendment to the law that we have done in Norway. No later than today, I was interviewed by Swedish TV. It may be interesting for the Stortinget to hear that there are no countries in the Nordic countries other than Norway that have introduced this legislative change, and so far it seems to be going very well in terms of the figures we have per year. the date of issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1762	Although the representative Dagrun Eriksen reassured me very much and said that the Council of State would certainly care for the crisis centres – and I know that – I would like to ask what the Council of State thinks about the recommendations that have now come from the Women's Violence Committee, and how quickly we can get this in place. So one more question: the Committee has a unanimous comment, which says: ‘The Committee calls for the necessary action to be taken against children who commit violence and abuse against other children. There has been a development in which girls more than before engage in violence... Repetitive violence has become a new form of bullying, and it has great consequences for those who are subjected to this." There is little research on violence in Norway. We know very little, and this negative development where girls are more drivers is a new development. I wonder how the Council of State has intended to follow up this committee comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1774	I am pleased to say that we are going to follow up on the position of the Women's Violence Committee as quickly as possible, while also wanting, as the Women's Violence Committee has said, to see this in the context of the reform of child protection, especially in relation to the administrative reform, where we are going to set up five regional child protection offices. At all, we want to see all the measures related to violence in a much larger context than what we have done today, and see a number of instances together. The crisis centers are doing a formidable job. I would like to say that this week I have actually received two enquiries. It concerns Sogn and Fjordane counties, and it concerns Westfold, where among others. The Incest Centre in Vestfold is happy to report – and also from Sogn and Fjordane – that more municipalities are now providing more support for crisis centres than before. It's very happy. In the case of children who are perpetrators of violence and children who are victims of violence, this will be a priority area with children and violence, regardless of who is perpetrating violence against the children. We have already started work on it, but it will also be a priority in the new plan of violence coming to spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1781	Despite what the Council of State said about children in crisis centres in the two counties – which is, in isolation, very positive – I would like to stress how important it is that we get started and change the legislation. So a little bit about kindergartens: the council said we were going to achieve the goal we've seen, and it would be brilliant if we could get 12,000 new kindergartens and more. But what does the Council of State have in mind when she says with such certainty that this goal is to be achieved? That's one question. The second is, when it comes to such a major reform, we demand qualified personnel. Does the Council have any idea of the level of education and whether it will give us enough preschool teachers when this reform is a reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1790	The reason why I'm very optimistic about the target number of 12,000 kindergartens this year is that we have carried out the same survey every year at the harvest party through the county officials when they have obtained information from the municipalities and from the private kindergartens. These estimates, which we have received in previous years, have proved to be very accurate. That's the background. But of course none of us will know 100 pst. how many kindergartens there will be before the end of the year. But what's a very exciting move this year is that we get far more places for children under the age of three than what we've probably ever had before, and it's very happy. As far as personnel are concerned, we, together with the Ministry of Education and Research, have carried out a number of studies on this issue, and we can at least see that, in the long term, the training capacity is so large that we believe we should be able to meet this need.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1797	Let me first give the Council of State a tribute for the work of following up the nursery arrangement. It seems she has done a good job in the fight with the Ministry of Finance, and it seems that there is enough money. It is quite difficult to get an overview of all the elements in this calculation. And there's complicated calculations on the basis, and it's also going to go up for each and every nursery. It doesn't help that we have the macro numbers in order if a private nursery goes bankrupt or gets problems. Then someone will lose an offer, so I ask the Council of State to note the comments that exist, that if the assumptions do not hold, she must come back to the Stortinget with measures to ensure that the calculation goes up. Just a few words about this with sibling moderation. The council said she would of course make rules for it. In the proposition, it's the opposite. It says: «The government wants to give municipalities the freedom to design local solutions and therefore does not propose to lay down detailed rules on moderation schemes». I guess the Council of State is going to follow up on what we are now saying, namely, that we want national regulations for sibling moderation. It's important that everyone gets the benefit of a lower parental payment, and that there isn't going to be anyone who's going to experience that the moderation system is falling away, so that the win goes up in the spin.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1809	First of all, thank you for the good words. They are now warming around Christmastime, and it may not be so often the representative Giske cares about himself with praise to state councils. Thank you for that! The nursery arrangement is complicated, that's absolutely right. It's not easy to make all of these components work together, but we have to do that. Of course, the calculation has to go up. I've read the whole configuration of the committee, and I'm glad the support the committee also gives to all parts of the nursery arrangement. As far as sibling moderation is concerned, it is probably true that this government has a little more faith in the municipalities and the municipalities' freedom to find good solutions for its inhabitants than the opposition parties on the Stortinget might have. We're coming back, and we're suggesting different ways of doing this. But this is to be consulted, and I have great respect for the fact that the hearing bodies should also be able to see different options for organising the sibling-moderation arrangements. So we're coming back. I do not know what the representative Giske means by ‘national’ solutions, but I would like to make it clear that the word ‘national’ does not exist either in the kindergarten agreement or in the majority position that now exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11.ana.ud1939e1820	The cord shift is over. The time for tomorrow's meeting has come, and the meeting will be revisited at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
