ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e47	The representative of Afghan Rafiq, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e55	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e60	I'd like to suggest Øyvind Halleraker and Finn Martin Vallersnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e65	Øyvind Halleraker and Finn Martin Vallersnes are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Finn Martin Vallersnes and Øyvind Halleraker are considered unanimously elected presidents for the current week. The representative of Marit Arnstad will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e70	I would like to make a proposal for the introduction of recruitment quotas for young people in the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e75	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e89	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 10 minutes each and the Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Halleraker, on behalf of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e102	On behalf of the rapporteur, Siri Meling, I would like to thank the Committee for constructive cooperation, a work that has been positive and instructive in many ways. The Clean and Rich Sea Storing Communication, or the Marine Environment Communication, provides a review of the state of the environment in our seas and coastal areas and what challenges we face in the future. Keywords such as increased transport of dangerous goods along the coast, preparedness for accidents at sea, problems related to introduced species, ballast water hazards, contamination by sediments in our fjords and radioactive contamination by Sellafield are some of the many important elements to which this notification relates. We all know our dependence on the sea. Industries such as fisheries and aquaculture and petroleum activities are of great importance for both coastal value creation and employment. Around this, there is a large and diverse industrial activity. Among other things, in the last decades the petroleum industry has been the main carrier of the Norwegian economy. Norway has strong interests in managing marine areas and resources. Norway has jurisdiction and responsibility for a sea area six times greater than the land area. The basis for this message is the Government's vision of ensuring a clean and rich sea, so that future generations can also reap the wealth that the sea can provide. The overall objective is to provide the basis for a clean and rich sea, including: by establishing framework conditions for balancing industrial interests related to fisheries, aquaculture and petroleum activities in the context of sustainable development. The Marine Environment Communication has as its starting point that we need to base the whole of a management plan for the marine areas. Historically, the approach has been sectoral while the more comprehensive assessments have been lacking. The government proposes that the management should be ecosystem-based, and that is an administration based on the framework conditions that the ecosystem itself sets for the maintenance of the production and conservation of biodiversity. To achieve this objective, knowledge and tools for analysis and coordination are important. The same applies to coordination between different sectoral managers. It is natural here to refer to the big message of biodiversity that the Stortinge treated last year. The first part of this work will be a comprehensive management plan for the Barents Sea. With this message, the government has taken some challenges seriously. We know that the balance between different interests in the sea area can be problematic. An important balance goes between the petroleum and fisheries industries. The majority of the Committee endorses the approach that a co-existence model should be the starting point for these industries, i.e. that they should be able to operate side by side with their activities. Through our 30-year oil history in the North Sea, we have shown that this is possible. During the consultation process of this Communication, it was also found that the oil industry and the fishing industry are working together towards a document or a platform for good coexistence. The Government has taken the view that new permits for oil drilling from Lofoten and northwards should not be granted until the impact assessment of all-year petroleum activities for these sea areas has been completed. In recent years, we have experienced shipping accidents that have been a strong reminder of how vulnerable our coastal waters can be. The losses of «John R» in the north and «Green Ålesund» in the south are examples of this. Unfortunately, the ‘Prestige’ off the coast of Spain is also an example showing the seriousness of this type of accident. These are situation images that we do not want to experience along the coast of Norway. Shipwrecks reveal vulnerability. The government has met this challenge by, among others: to pool all responsibility for state preparedness for acute contamination in the Coastal Works. In the past, this was known to be shared between the Coastal Administration, the SFT and the Maritime Directorate. Another important measure is the Government's proposal to extend our territorial waters from 4 to 12 nautical miles, and this matter is being dealt with in the Stortinget. In recognition of both the dependence on and the vulnerability of our seas, it is positive that the Government's message is essentially behind a broad political majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e119	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e122	The issue of traffic monitoring is a matter of concern to many. Accidents such as «John R» and «Green Ålesund» showed us that there was a strong need to clear up responsibilities related to monitoring and preparedness, but also that preparedness was not good enough. During the post-John R accident, much has been done to clean up the responsibilities, but major changes have also occurred in the traffic image. In 2002, it went about the same. 200 oil transports along the Norwegian coast. There is therefore a need to step up efforts. One of the key instruments in this context is the establishment of a traffic centre in North Norway. This was also a theme when Stortinget dealt with the vulnerability message. It was examined by two major committees — the Justice Committee and the Defence Committee. The two committees unanimously agreed to set up a traffic centre in North Norway, and said that it would, for example: could be added to Vardø in connection with the coastal radio station there. The government shall return to this matter in the context of the revised national budget or the State budget. The Labour Party wants to await the Government's proposal for localization, but we still think it was strange that, among other things. government parties were unable to repeat the wording from the setting to the vulnerability message that Vardø was an alternative. We also believe that this has become a matter where there is so much uncertainty that there is a need for a quick decision. We therefore believe that this matter must be brought back into the revised national budget by the Government. My question to the representative Halleraker is: Why could the government not agree to repeat the same comments that were made in the Vulnerability Committee setting, pointing out that Vardø was one option for the location of the traffic monitoring centre?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e129	It is correct that the right was included in these comments in the vulnerability message settings. Then it would be quite fine what we think about it. I am pleased that the Labour Party agrees with us that we should await what the Government believes about this in the revised national budget. It is a very important establishment to take place, and it is important to assess all aspects of this establishment. For my part, Vardø can be a good alternative, but I think it's important to see all of this in a perspective where both economics, resources and existing infrastructure are involved, and of course what might be important in this particular case, namely the relationship with our neighbouring countries and perhaps especially with Russia. It is important that we have a monitoring and establish a good device that has mutual trust, including among our neighbours.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e136	I would like to start by thanking the spokesman for the matter – not the Halleraker representative – for a constructive and good cooperation and a constructive willingness to improve the environment in the context of the marine environmental communication. SV represents the superstructure of the marine environmental message, which requires one to have an ecosystem-based management and one to follow the precautionary principle. That's good. The Committee points out that there is an increased pressure on fish stocks and that there is a need to reduce fishing capacity. Some things do the government, but often get the impression that one, for example. in the case of the king crab, it is more busy to be resilient than to be resilient to the cod stock. My question to Halleraker is: what will he do to the problem raised by the Committee in terms of reducing fishing capacity? What do my Right there are important contributions? On comiteraise to Tromsø and North-West Russia we got a very good insight into some of the areas where Norway and Russia cooperate. A lot of this is positive, not least when it comes to the royal crab, but also when it comes to oil protection. There is, of course, much more that can be done, and there is a strong need to increase this cooperation in several areas, which the Committee also points to. SV has a proposal to ask the Government to create a Northern Region Centre, just to enable the necessary environmental monitoring as needed in the Northern Region. The government has not yet joined this idea. My challenge to Halleraker is: is this something you want to come back to?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e149	To take the last one first, I must say that I most share the comment of the representative of Langeland on what we experienced during our committee trip to North-West Russia. It was frightening states that we witnessed, and I also have to say that it put our own environmental challenges in perspective. So that we have to continue working with Russia, I think it is absolutely necessary if we are to succeed in reducing the risk of pollution that can also affect our own areas. A monitoring centre can be a positive idea, and I expect that these are issues that are being worked on in the government. As far as the royal crab is concerned, I would like to refer to the discussion that is taking place on this issue in the nutrition committee. For my part, I want to add that there are those who have pointed out that this is a resource, and I am, until the opposite is proven, set to listen to. There can be no problem if we have too much of a resource. We should be able to regulate the stock. But, as I said, I would like to refer to the discussion that is taking place in the Economic and Social Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e156	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e159	The sea is a huge resource for Norway. We have long traditions for fishing. Fisheries have been crucial for the settlement of the first humans into the Norwegian coastal areas. The fishing industry is still the backbone of the coastal community, and we have developed it further with farming and fishing. The sea has been a major transport route and has laid the basis for shipping and shipbuilding. The aim of the working party is to obtain more from road-to-sea freight because it is more environmentally friendly. At the same time, increased shipping also poses an environmental risk, which I will return to later in my post. The sea has also given us huge oil and gas resources, which have both contributed to income and jobs and have contributed to Norway's special position in the European economy as well. But while the sea has given us an enormous wealth, the man-made activities are also involved in putting pressure on it – perhaps not so much individually, but it is today a pressure on the sea and coastal areas that makes it necessary to have a holistic perspective. That's why I want to pay tribute to the Government for providing this message, and there's a broad majority in the UK that stands behind the overarching objective of a more comprehensive and coordinated management of the sea and coastal areas. There is also broad agreement on the objective of governance to be ecosystem-based and cross-sectoral. Two tools will be the main instruments: management plans for the large seas, initially the Barents Sea, and the follow-up to the new EU Water Framework Directive. This command allows you to associate the main concepts of this message with your current administration. In addition to that, there are three areas that I would like to say today in particular about: 1. the need for increased investment in marine research2. the need for strong coastal surveillance and preparedness3. the need for strong efforts to clean up contaminated sediments; To start with, ecosystem-based management needs to be knowledge-based. The Labour Party agrees with the Government that today we have enough knowledge to start work on the creation of management plans, but at the same time we will stress the need for increased investment in research, monitoring and monitoring of the marine environment. In the 1999 Research Communication, which was discussed by the Stortinget, marine research was identified as one of four national research fields. Despite this, marine research has not been given the necessary promise in the research appropriations. One exception was the government's draft budget for 2002, where the research effort was proposed to be increased by 60 pst. in one year. But unfortunately, much of the effort was removed by the Bondevik II government and the bulk of the population. It has been estimated that the value creation within the marine sector can increase from about 40 billion dollars to 240 billion dollars over the next 30 years. However, it is not a development that comes about by sea or through the development of the market alone. If we're going to achieve this goal, it requires a targeted public investment, among other things. through research. We therefore ask in this setting, together with the SV and the Central Party, that the Government in the State budget submit a comprehensive plan for the investment in marine research. We believe that the Government should provide a stepping-up plan for MAREANO, the Marine Land Database for Norwegian coastal and marine areas, and come back with an assessment of the so-called AMOEBE project. See if the government party does not support this in the settings, I still hope it can be followed up. It is necessary that we strengthen our knowledge of the marine resources. However, a project supported by the Government is the Barents Sea project on screen. The use of satellite images allows the observation of ship traffic, fishing boats and oil spills; the movement of the edge of the ice may be followed, if appropriate, by glaciers as a loosener; the observation of algal blooms, etc. Systematic use of satellite images can both give us useful day-to-day information and can provide valuable long time series of environmental knowledge. The main idea behind the Barents Sea on screen is to gather the information we can get from satellite images and the other knowledge we have about the Barents Sea and the coastal areas in one screenshot. In this way, we can get a web-based environmental information centre where all users from management, industry, operational services, the media and the public are given classified access to what should be the common knowledge of society. In Tromsø, there is a broad professional community at the Polar Institute, at the Polar Environment Centre, at the fisheries and marine research community and at the space research/satellite monitoring environment. Thus, the «Barent Sea on screen» is about both strengthening long-term environmental monitoring and being an important complement to coastal surveillance. So I'm going to go to the next area I'd like to say a little bit about: the need for increased efforts in terms of coastal surveillance and preparedness. Also here I am pleased that it has become a setting with a broad consensus. I am pleased that a unanimous committee sees the need to strengthen the towing boat capacity in North Norway, and asks the Government to come back with concrete measures already in the revised national budget. As I said, I am pleased that a unanimous committee is in favour of the systematic use of satellite images and is asking the Government to return to the Barents Sea on screen in the state budget. I am pleased that a unanimous committee asks the Government to carry out a review of the private and state response resources, including shipping resources, and that stakeholders are involved in this work. In addition to this, we repeat what was said in the context of the handling of the vulnerability message, that a crisis management command should be established on Retan and a traffic centre in North Norway. However, as far as the latter is concerned, I find it strange that the government parties and the SV cannot repeat the remark that Vardø is an alternative. It creates an uncertainty in Finnmark that we could have been ahead of us. Nevertheless, in total, these measures will provide a strong preparedness. But when that is said, it is a matter I would like to highlight in particular. There is a need for coordination and clear responsibilities in the event of an accident. When the committee was in Tromsø, we heard the rapporteur in Karlsøy, Hanny Ditlefsen, tell about his experiences with 'John R'. The clear conclusion reached after ‘John R’ is that there is a need for a strong clean-up of responsibilities. Fortunately, much has happened, the last through the collection in the Coastal Works. But there is still uncertainty along the coast as to who is responsible at all times in the event of an accident. As late as yesterday, I got e.g. copy of a letter to the Government by Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik of Troms County, highlighting just two aspects: first, the tug capacity, and second, the need for clear and unambiguous command structures. And as the letter says: «The command structures are now partly unclear and at least not unambiguous.» This is a message from Coast Norway that we must take seriously, and it is the Government that must ensure that there are clear responsibilities. It can do so in the proposition to establish the crisis management command on Retan, and it can do so in the case of the establishment of a traffic centre in North Norway. Therefore, the issue of the central traffic centre should also be clarified as quickly as possible, and the Labour Party believes, as said, that the Government should be able to present a proposal during the spring session. The last thing I want to mention in particular is the need to clean up contaminated sediments. Cleaning up contaminated sediments is clearing up past environmental sins. When environmental pollutants are spread from contaminated sediments to new areas, the Workers' Party considers this to be unacceptable pollution. We support the Government's strategy of implementing measures in areas where there is a high risk of the spread of pollutants, ensuring the development of multi-annual action plans, and increasing knowledge through, inter alia. pilot projects. But in one area, the government is unfortunately pretty wool, and it's about funding. This is a question that the message says needs to be examined in more detail. We believe that in the Workers' Party and SV is too defensive. We believe that there must be a phasing-out plan and have made a proposal that we hope the government party will vote for today. As I said, there is a lot of agreement in this matter. I hope that there can also be an agreement on a plan to clean up contaminated sediments. With that, I will deal with the proposal that the Workers' Party is included in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e225	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e229	SV has pointed out in the setting that from the Norwegian side it is appropriate to assess whether the northern regions need a dedicated environmental monitoring centre. Such a centre could contribute to increased Norwegian-Russian cooperation in the management of marine resources. The representative Halleraker replied instead that this was a positive idea that he expects it will be further worked on. It may be that SV's good ideas need time to sink in before they are accepted and followed. My question to the representative, Mr Konglevoll, is whether she agrees with the representative, Mr Halleraker, on this. Does she agree that this is a good idea and will the Workers' Party vote in favour of the SV's proposal? It is also positive that the Workers' Party and the SV in the setting agree on increased efforts to clean up PCB, and a desire to intensify efforts in the area of clean-up. Then I have to signal that SV expects the Workers' Party to follow this up when it comes to the use of money, when it comes to the budgets, when the priority is to be done, in relation to the amount of resources that you will spend in this clean-up. Can the Labour Party give a signal that one will also give priority to this in the next year's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e238	In the case of an environmental monitoring centre, I spoke quite a lot in my post about the “Barents Sea on screen”, which is a heart-child – I have to admit that. One of the main ideas of that project is to exploit a lot of the expertise and knowledge that we already have. And as I said in my post, there's a polar environment center that's accumulated a lot of expertise within existing agencies. The Coastal Plant is now also co-located. We believe that if the Government takes up the challenge that lies in the setting of a unanimous committee to establish the 'Barents Sea on screen', we can just get a boost in this environmental knowledge. Let me also add that, unfortunately, the Government has proposed several times to cut the allocation to the Polar Environment Centre in budgetary terms, and the Workers' Party has proposed to correct the cuts, so this is a matter of which we are concerned. As far as cleaning up contaminated sediments is concerned, we support, as I said, the main strategy of the Government in this work. But it is quite obvious that there is a need for increased appropriations in the years that come if you want to clean up. We hope and believe that the Government will also come back with increased proposals in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e247	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e250	Now that we have a debate on clean and rich seas, it is not likely that we have recently dealt with two major issues of conflict in this Chamber, namely the landfill of national salmon fjords and St.meld. No 38 for 2001-2002, on oil and gas activities. It certainly bears this debate out. Nevertheless, in the Advancement Party we find it a little sad to read a part of what is in the notes. I'll be allowed to quote something: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, further notes that a better method and knowledge should be developed in order to allow a thorough balance to be drawn between the different interests associated with the Barents Sea. Furthermore, this can best be achieved by basing the management plan on sectoral impact assessments in order to obtain the overall picture.’ Now it is the case that Norwegian petroleum activity has been taking place for 30 years, with a technology and an environmental standard that is completely at the top of the world. And just as far as the Barents Sea is concerned, there are 174 research and investigation reports. You've spent over half a billion dollars on this. However, the majority of population will have more research into this than was agreed upon during the treatment of St.meld. No 38 on oil and gas activities. That is what we in the Progress Party think is sad, and we do not think that is necessary. One theme that is important in this Communication is shipping, safety and coastal preparedness. We are positive for the expansion of territorial waters from 4 to 12 nautical miles. There is an opportunity to get the vessels further out along the coast and thus to have an increased preparedness and better time to intervene before a ship with problems ends up in the rocks. We think it is important that there is good cooperation between Norway and Russia — and there is probably also the opportunity to extend cooperation to make it even better. I also think there is every reason to commend the County of Finnmark, who has taken the initiative of an agreement with the tanker companies on the warning of oil transport from Russia along the Finnish coast. We think that is very positive. Furthermore, it will be important in the context of increased activity along the coast and in the context of snow-white development to strengthen existing oil protection equipment and to establish new oil protection pools where necessary. Equally important is that you have a good transport capability between these depots. That was the weakness of the John R accident, which was too poor for logistics, and it took too long for the necessary equipment to be in place. I am pleased that there has been more coordination and that more concerted action has been taken in this area through the Coastal Agency. We are also very pleased that there has been an agreement in Stortinget to strengthen the towing boat capacity. We've seen it as very important that you have enough power to assist ships that have problems, especially at these times when, on the part of Stortinget, you reduce defence and those who are in an early stage of intervention. The main measure to strengthen preparedness is the establishment of a traffic centre. It is important to avoid a new ‘John R’ accident. Unfortunately, the establishment of a traffic centre has now become a location debate, and there has also been a budget debate. We think that should have been completely unnecessary. We've gone in to add this traffic center to Retan. There's a lot of what you need to do to get this central in place. It is only necessary to have a border crossing between the Coast Guard and the Defence. And there you have the opportunity to get started quickly to get what's most important, that's a full surveillance. But it probably won't include the population, and I think that's pretty sad. Because when you have an accident with a vessel, it's about doing that the response time must be minimal from the time you discover the problem and until you can intervene – that you have a short room for action. Finally, I would like to include in the vote the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e274	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e279	The oil and energy committee had the pleasure of visiting North-West Russia during the examination of the notification. It was an experience that we should never forget. Andrevakta is one of the major facilities for the handling and storage of spent nuclear fuel from the northern fleet of the Russian Navy. In the air line, the plant is approximately 50 km from Norway. Different types of radioactive material equal to 5000 Hiroshima bombs are stored there. Norway has committed itself to cleaning up through a cooperation agreement. This area has been abandoned for a number of years, and it bears a clear mark on it. The governor of Murmansk is grateful for the help and says that without foreign aid it would take 100 years to clean up the nuclear stock. As far as environmental challenges are concerned, the Norwegian debates may be small in relation to the challenges we saw in Russia. Despite this, the Progress Party is not just part of a 19 million cut. kr, who came from the government, but they were in agreement to cut 30 million. extra in relation to the cooperation agreement with Russia. Does the representative of Korsberg think that it is sensible policy to cut these appropriations, or is it such that there is a celebration of the dangers that are most important to the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e288	I fully agree with the representative of Klungland that what we saw in Andreyevabukta and, to the extent, the comitology made a strong impression, and we are at least fully convinced that what is being done by the Norwegian side in terms of environmental protection policy is symbolism policy. I could have liked to send the Environment Minister on the journey we were – he didn't have to get back as quickly as we did, because I think it was a lot to get caught up in. What we also received information about when we were in Andreyevakta was that this was a Russian responsibility. There is also a limit on how much assistance is to be provided by the Norwegian side. It was also said that there was no desire for Norway to take over this project in a way, but that we should be involved as a contributor in respect of the fact that this is on the Russian side, and that is to the extent of a Russian problem. But I think it's important to be involved in that area in the future, and that's where you provide environmental protection, so that you really get something left for the funds you shoot in. If we have cut the budget in this area in cooperation with the Government on the budgetary agreement, at least there was no problem for the project in Russia and Andreyeva Bay. But we still want to be a driver for this project to go further in cooperation with Russia, where Russia has the primary responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e297	The President will hope that the appeal to the Minister for the Environment did not presuppose that he would manually clean up the nuclear waste. In that case, it would be difficult to meet in Stortinget at regular intervals. Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e302	I don't think I would advise the Minister for the Environment to move in some of the areas where one has this waste that is now being discussed. This is a very important message. Not least SV considered it important that a base or superstructure should be knowledge-based and an ecosystem-based management of marine resources. It's an important superstructure in which SV is combined. And then, like the challenges, can you follow up? So far, one set of examples is that one doesn't. We had this in the error message, where a weakened position of the government and weakened the position of what the Rieber-Mohn committee thought was a knowledge-based administration. One has it when it comes to the activity of the Barents Sea area, where one has now seen the Snow White expansion. Is this knowledge-based ecosystem based? Such questions should be addressed in the context of the continuation of policy work in the key marine environment area. One should also always think about – and I've found that I have to say more – that if one wants a more offensive marine environment policy, it's just to get to SV, then there's a lot of them. We are ready with a series of proposals that will give you a more offensive marine environment policy. Let me say a couple of positive things about the committee's number in its treatment. As I said, I was content with the case manager's work just to try to find solutions that improve the message. Among other things, this applies to satellite surveillance. In mid-March, one of them had taken satellite photographs of a boat that went along the Norwegian coast and dropped oil. But one couldn't rely on the knowledge that one had, and Norway didn't pay the services that allowed us to grab that boat and make sure that he was drawn for the environmental crime he was running with. SV wanted this to be cleaned up already in the revised budget, so there was money for it. However, a majority, including SV, finally entered in order to achieve this in the ordinary budget for 2004. But then SV also expects this to happen, so that we stay on the offensive in relation to taking environmental criminals. It is also good to see that there is a great deal of goodwill about increasing research efforts – not least in cooperation with Russia. But the problem becomes, as one was in the change of line: what happens when one is going to follow up this concretely in the budget? Is it so that an increased effort on research, or is it such that an actual compromise with a party that cuts in such research? There are questions you have to ask yourself based on the signals that a co-consultant committee is now giving. Then, of course, SV is pleased that part of the oil protection equipment is being taken by a co-consultant committee so that one should look at the tug capacity. With the ‘Prestige’ in memory and the disaster that one had there, if one sees such a disaster in the Barents Sea, one now has to get on the path of oil protection, and then this with tug capacity is one important moment in several. Several speakers have been on the committee tour in the Tromsø-Murmansk area, which is very interesting and very enlightening to us as committee members when it comes to what is actually going on and what one wants to do. Clearly, if one looks at research efforts on both sides of the border, i.e. in Norway and Russia, there is a significant need for synergies if one coordinates more closely and cooperates more. One doesn't cooperate, but one doesn't cooperate enough. A co-operator, among others When it comes to the royal crab, but in a number of areas, it's very clear that there's a great potential here if Norway is willing to spend a little more money on it. Therefore, SV suggests creating a Northern Region Centre that goes beyond what the Workers' Party has to do with the Polar Environment Centre. We want a center that has a stronger focus on the entire northern region, not just on the Arctic and Antarctica, which the Polar Institute focuses most on. In the end, I miss one of the PCB clean-up issues on the offensive, as the Workers' Party and SV demand. I hope that there is one of the areas to which the Minister for the Environment comes back in his contribution. Did I pick up the suggestions from SV, President? If not, I'll do it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e325	Then, in any case, the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland has addressed the proposals to which he referred. The President noted that the representative had certain problems in controlling the difference between base and superstructure – and would assume that it must mean that ideological consciousness is no longer what it was.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e330	Today, the Storting deals with an environmental issue that will have direct consequences for future relatives. Today, decisions and leaders can ensure that generations after us can enjoy having access to non-polluted products, and that the fine yam weight that must be in the food chain in the sea can be kept up. Clean and rich marine environments provide us with support for the production of marine farms and the management of marine resources. It is, therefore, very gratifying to see that the cooperative government's vision of securing a clean and rich sea so that future generations will be able to absorb the wealth provided by the sea is supported by a broad majority in the Storting. There are several ways to develop tools and processes that can provide the basis for a long-term and holistic policy for the security of the marine and coastal environment. This means that we should have a policy where the sum of all impacts on the marine environment is assessed in a coherent way and is based on knowledge of the structure, mode and state of the ecosystem. In order to achieve these objectives, future management needs to be ecosystem-based and cross-sectoral. This is challenging, and it will require government, regional and local governance, industry and various organisations – such as business organisations, environmental protection organisations and other voluntary organisations – to be actors and partners in this important work. Norway has a long tradition of exploiting the wealth provided by the sea. Over the years, marine fish have been an important source of nutrition, and marine resources have been a source of coastal value for hundreds of years. But new fishing methods, a more open world with more transport on the cold and more harmful emissions than the marine environment can tolerate, have led to a risk of disrupting the necessary marine balance needed to maintain marine food resources. The North Sea, the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea are between the world's most productive seas, and we have great challenges in terms of the efficient management of our marine resources. We must wage a determined battle to reduce the harmful effects of introduced species and of oil pollution from operational and acute emissions from petroleum industry, ship traffic and land-based sources of pollution. Destructive environmental pollutants in the Norwegian seas have to a large extent also produced air and sea currents after emissions in other parts of the world. This requires international cooperation and monitoring. In order to close down the use of pollutants, it is important to find solutions at international level, as I call it. We need, among other things: an international effort to phase out the stream of radioactive waste from Sellafield. As you know, there are plans to transport large quantities of crude oil by tankers from north-west Russia along the Norwegian coast, and this cargo will represent an environmental threat in the event of acute spills from supertankers above 200000 tonnes. In order to meet this challenge, the Government has taken the initiative of a sound management plan for the Barents Sea, where the concerns of the environment, fisheries, petroleum activity and maritime transport are to be assessed. Such a plan will later be able to lay the foundations for the respective management plans for the Norwegian Sea and the North Sea. It is gratifying that the Stortinge supports this. The Energy and Environment Committee was two weeks ago on a trip to Kola, which several have already mentioned. We visit among others. The Second Bay and got information about the huge amounts of radioactive waste stored there. This waste has been shipped there by boat – it was previously not a way to this area – and is at the bottom of the beach. It is far from proper certainty, and radiation values from the plant are so high that it is health-threatening to stay in the vicinity of Deponia over time. We were told that the stored radioactive waste corresponds to approx. 900 times more than the emissions from the Chernobyl nuclear power plant – that was the one parameter – or, as mentioned earlier, approx. 5000 times the radiation effect and hazard of the Hiroshima bomb. Andreyva Bay is not far from the border with our own country. Although in the coastline it is longer, it lies in the air distance approx. 50 km from the border with Norway, towards Finnmark. It is therefore so important to be able to carry on both Norwegian and international efforts to clean up this ticking, life-tugging bomb that the radioactive waste represents. In addition, the impure leachate from the landfill, which is well down against the rocks, can destroy food chains and food resources in the Barents Sea in the short and long term. And no one knows the time perspective of when the radioactive substances can be degraded. We need to focus more on pollution in the north. I am pleased that we are today confirming that the majority of the Stortinget team is saying that there must be extra caution when it comes to emissions from land, from shipping and from petroleum. We don't have to face the situation that we're destroying resources for maybe forever, just to get oil and gas resources out for 100 years to come. Increased transport of petroleum products along the coast is expected. Not least this applies to the transport of oil from Russia and in connection with the Snow White field. The government suggests various measures to meet this target. Among other things, the extension of territorial waters from 4 to 12 nautical miles is a measure that the Christian People's Party believes is very important. This change will allow Norwegian authorities to point out sailing leases at a greater distance from the coastline. This could prevent the extent of damage caused by any loss or acute spillage of contamination. The establishment of a prior warning for the transport of dangerous goods and the strengthening of maritime traffic control and surveillance will be important to safeguard our common marine environment. I would like to mention with a string the clocks with «John R» and «Green Ålesund», and now last fall the accident with «Prestige» on the Spanish coast then the hauststorms herja as worst. It tells how decisive it is to get good monitoring, clarification of responsibilities, preparedness and adequate resources to rescue operations when necessary along our coast. Some of our fjords are heavily polluted, and there are several restrictions on the use of fish and shellfish from some fjords and beach areas along the coast. For a long time, environmental pollution has been released along the coast and in the fjords, and these are partly stored in sediment. It is important that we address this issue and get an overview of the scope of the issue. It is important to know what to do with these sediments. It might be more harmful to touch them, trying to remove them, than to cover them up. Such cleaning will in any case cost money. Therefore, it is important that we gain experience with different methods to clean up these sediments. The cooperation management has provided a holistic strategy for removing pollution from sediments. In this work, it is important that a step-by-step approach is made, that is to say, that there is scope for a concerted effort to reduce pollution. The principle that forureins are to be paid is underpinned. But at times it may be difficult to find out who actually has the impurities, or they're too far away. Therefore, it must be a governmental responsibility to follow up in those courts. The objective of the decision in connection with this message is to lay the foundations for a clean and rich sea through practical action. In addition to natural changes, major man-made and man-initiated changes occur. So here's the big challenge. We need to establish framework conditions that enable business interests to be balanced in relation to fisheries, aquaculture, maritime transport, in relation to emissions, from land and air to maritime and petroleum activities. For the sake of creation and future generations, we must base the precautionary principle and systematically reduce the pollution that is already in the sea and that goes beyond sustainable development.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e361	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e364	In the section, SV is associated with the Workers' Party on a proposal for the Government to present during 2003 an escalation plan that realistically eliminates PCB and heavy metal sediments from Norwegian ports within a ten-year period. We've been working for a long time for such a clean-up and getting an increased focus on this ticking environmental bomb here at home. Now it is not the case that only SV is dissatisfied with the efforts in this area. The National Audit Office has also looked into the work of authorities on contaminated land and contaminated seabeds caused by past activities. In the configuration of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the Government is asked to report regularly on the status of the clean-up operation, and ‘responsible, involve and coordinate more actively the sectoral authorities concerned and keep the Stortinget informed about this in the regular status reports’. My question to the representative Liones is therefore: What do the government parties intend to do to follow up this attitude of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee? And is such a stepping-up plan something government parties will also chew on and bring along as a good idea? If only the government parties will, it is a majority on the Stortinget for a good environmental policy. It has illustrated the gas message.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e376	We're happy to have registered involvement from SV to be able to move faster when it's up to clearing up PCB contamination in the various sediments and impurities that could be along the coast. It's an engagement that we definitely agree with. We have a common goal, but we have different strategies to achieve that goal. Of course, we have with interest read the statements that have come from the National Audit Office. After our assessment, it is also included in the message and comments that we can now go into this work in a more active way. From my own state, I can name two measures. One is the cleaning up of PCB and other contamination at Haakonsvern. There is a method of absorbing all the impurities, collecting them in a large landfill, and then measuring any emissions from them. The other way is to use one in Sørfjorden – there it has been our monthly emissions for many years. They have chosen first to cover the impurities with a cloth, then to put a layer of gravel on top of it again, and then to perform measurements that show if there are harmful emissions. It's clear that it's a much more reasonable arrangement than the first one. But until now, one is uncertain as to which is the best way. Therefore, it is important to have these four pilot projects, with different ways of managing the waste. Then an experience will be gained so that one can work out a plan, which I also mention in my post. So we have a common goal for clean-up. It is also positive that such a non-existent – perhaps apart from the Progress Party – can go and collect for cleanup. Then it must also be set of sufficient means. In addition, I would like to mention that we are running a common race with both the NHO and the PIL. They realize how valuable it is to clean up, they want to take their share of responsibility. But then it is also absolutely crucial that we have a safe basis when we are going to put in place such large, expensive and important measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e387	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e390	The Marine Environment Communication addresses several issues affecting our coastal and marine areas. The sea was long looked at as large and so deep that it could withstand all that was introduced. But eventually we have experienced something else. Also the sea is vulnerable, and if we are to be able to continue to harvest food from one of the last clean, natural production areas of the world, we must limit the supply of harmful substances to the sea. It's now one year since this message was presented, and a lot of water has been clean in the sea since then, to say it that way. For some of the themes mentioned, they have been addressed in other issues, such as: in the oil and gas notification and in the proposal for national salmon watercourses. The batch agreement is large in the committee setting. I would also like to mention what has been said earlier here, and thank you for constructive cooperation within the Committee. I would like to discuss two of the themes in the message. I would like to say a little bit about the petroleum activity in the vulnerable sea areas in the north and a little about safety in relation to oil transport along the Norwegian coast. When we dealt with the oil and gas communication in December, some of us stressed that a possible opening for further petroleum production from Lofoten and northwards to the Barents Sea was a very important theme. The centre party stressed that we need to proceed very carefully, because there is once again reason to stress that it is important that the knowledge gaps revealed by the impact study on the Barents Sea are re-examined before new strategic decisions are taken. New research needs have been identified. Several specialised bodies, including the SFT, state that the investigation will be deficient as a basis for decision-making by the authorities. Decisions may not be foreshadowed on the basis of the impact assessment. It will therefore be necessary to await the management plan for the area, which was expected to be completed in 2005. It is only then that one has the basis for making real policy choices for further petroleum activities. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that we must be realistic in relation to the business in these areas. It is difficult to stop projects that are in full activity. However, we must ensure that no new business is started. It is positive that the Government is going in to consider maintaining petroleum-free fishing zones. The zones in question should be spawning areas and growing areas for vulnerable and particularly valuable fish stocks. I am also pleased with the broad consensus there is in the Committee on the work on increasing safety and preparedness along the Norwegian coast. The situation in Russia has probably made us feel the same way about reality. The Central Party’s national meeting recently focused on strengthening coastal preparedness, and the meeting adopted an opinion on this subject. It just underlined that increased oil transport from Kola along the Norwegian coast through the important spawning and breeding areas for, among others, cod poses a significant risk. The opinion also highlighted three key factors to prevent an environmental disaster in our waters: satisfactory tug capacity, clear responsibilities and command structures, and coordination and strengthening of various types of navigation assistance and monitoring. All of these are issues on which the Committee has been concerned during the examination of this Communication. It is the responsibility of the Government to follow this up, and the Committee asks that this be taken into account already in the revised budget. It is positive that the Government proposes to extend Norway’s territorial waters from four to twelve nautical miles, but for particularly environmentally hazardous transports, such as: crude oil, nor are 12 nautical miles a safe distance. It should therefore be considered to seek approval from the United Nations Maritime Organisation in order to extend the route even further. SV initially said here that they were engaged in offensive marine environmental policies, and people were encouraged to support them. I would like to say today that we want to support one of these proposals that SV has made. It concerns the management of royal crabs. It is also a theme that will be debated later today. So the Center Party has joined forces with SV and demanded that royal crabs be managed as an unwanted introduced species in Norway. We will therefore agree with SV on proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e413	The government's vision, to secure a clean and rich sea so that future generations will be able to absorb the wealth that the sea can provide, of course, supports the Left. And the Government has proposed a lot of good measures in the big news. Every year, the sea has been one of our most important sources of prosperity. The land has been surveyed many times, but the knowledge of the seabed is less. The left, along with its plurality, points to the need to strengthen monitoring and monitoring of the marine environment. The Marine Research Institute, together with other scientific environments in Norway, is at the tip of the world when it comes to competence, and we have a unique research environment. It is important to strengthen the research that is being done, to get the knowledge that we need for the ocean to be a resource in the future, and to make good use of these resources. The sea knows no borders – it has emitted radioactive waste from Sellafield until the degrees shown to us. Our common resources can be harmful. I'm very happy that the government will hold up the pressure against the British government, so that they finally give in and stop letting go. It is important for Norway to work internationally for binding agreements that make all countries take responsibility for reducing pollution and the risk of pollution of our marine areas. The left also agrees that a strong Norwegian involvement is necessary in processes where the international framework for the management of marine and natural resources is established. If I were to say something about the north, it's that I'm very concerned about the planned nuclear transport. The left is against it and hopes that the government can work actively to stop the planned transport down our coast. For a representative of a coastal region, it is clear that improving safety and preparedness along the coast is a political matter that involves involvement. I myself come from a municipality where one in 1991 experienced what a disaster it was when a loss led to oil spills that it actually took almost a year to get rid of. An extension of the territorial waters from four to twelve nautical miles and the establishment of on-board routes for traffic representing a particular risk are two necessary measures to ensure risk transport along the coast. Between seven and nine departments are responsible for preparedness along our coast in one or more areas. When I say between seven and nine, it's because I mean seven, while others in previous debates have claimed nine. No matter what number, there are too many. I see that the Government at least takes the grip that one transfers the state preparedness from the State Pollution Control to the Coastal Agency. Coordination and cooperation in relation to monitoring and preparedness are important. The development of the Coastal Network’s network to respond to the AIS signal is of course forward-looking, but it will also have to exchange information between different levels, so that you can get optimal preparedness and reduced costs of operating public budgets. Several articles here today point to just this. I hope that the Government will take the right steps forward and be able to coordinate the public services that work along the coast. As I said in the introduction: the sea is our most important source of prosperity, and our marine areas are among the world's most productive. We have a challenge in terms of the resilient management of our marine resources, whether it is for those who live above the seabed, or for what we fall below the seabed. The left is therefore pleased that a broad majority on the Stortinget believes it is important to establish ecosystem-based management plans, and that the first step will be a holistic management plan for the Barents Sea, where the concerns of the environment, fisheries, petroleum activity and maritime transport are assessed together. For the Left, it is very important that the environmental dimension is the most important thing. It must be an inescapable objective to take care of the biological deficiency of Norwegian nature, both on land and in the marine element. The left is therefore pleased with the measures that the Government will take when it comes to preventing the spread of emerging organisms and genetically modified organisms, as measures to strengthen marine land management. We are in a state of stagnation when it comes to research and competence to take care of some of our marine resources. I'm thinking about what's moving over the bottom of the sea. It is important that we take care of and further develop the research environment we have. This must be a priority task. Of course, the left supports the plurality of the Christian People's Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e443	Today, as a national assembly in a country with large seas, we are handling an important message. A good marine environment is a prerequisite if Norway is to be able to exploit our national resources in future in co-existence with each other. Oil and gas activities are themselves important, but it is even more important for Norway to maintain the stamp as clean and environmentally sound. Our fish is a renewable resource if we take care of it, and there are such challenges we are debating today. I am pleased with this as a background for the broad consensus that is in this matter. We have many challenges in the time that come, but we may have even bigger challenges in things that have happened earlier in history. Norway today has an industry that takes the environment seriously and understands that it is not possible to conflict with the environment. But cleaning up old contaminated areas is a challenge that both business and government have to take very seriously. In several fjords, pollutant emissions occur – and have taken place. The Labour Party believes that we have a common responsibility to clean up these conditions in a way that allows fish to be eaten, and that people can bathe where they want to. In the future, I don't think it's going to be accepted that outdoor life is being inhibited by relationships that it can do anything about. The polluter-pays principle must form the basis of the clean-up operation. But in many places with old environmental sins, the polluter has laid down and no longer exists. In such cases, we believe that the public has a special responsibility for cleaning up. We've been wanting and wanting a clean-up plan, so we can get started. We want a plan to know what it will cost and how to solve the problem. Until now, only the Workers' Party and SV have wanted it. But there's hope in hanging strings. However, in terms of environmental challenges, Norwegian challenges are small compared to those in other countries. The oil and energy committee had the pleasure of visiting North-West Russia during the examination of the notification. In the Andreyeva Bay is one of the major facilities for handling and storing spent nuclear fuel from the northern fleet of the Russian Navy. In the air line, the installation is 50 km from Norway. Large amounts of radioactive material are stored there. Then the solution is not to cut into funds that go to such work. Then the solution is not to stand here and say many fine words and at the same time cut into the budget funds that could help clean up. The area was, which has been mentioned before, abandoned for a number of years and bears a clear mark of it. We, who came from Norway and saw the plant, see that the challenges are enormous. We need to press Russia so that the environment is protected, and so that we can release the pollution by possible emissions from such areas. This is not the only area where there are challenges. No, they lie as pearls on a string in north-west Russia, and probably throughout Russia. I am pleased that Norway and Russia have seen the importance of working actively to ensure the environment. We're actually equally dependent on what the Russians are. Of course, this also applies to oil and gas exploration in the northern seas. The President of Russia, Putin, was here a while ago, and then the Prime Minister had, and promoted, Statoil in relation to the technology, if they open up in Russia. That's how the challenges are. Either we who have the best technology in the world are involved in doing a job, or we lean back and believe that only Norway is clean, then the world is clean.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e458	Norway is a port. Our marine areas are among the cleanest and richest in the world. In Norwegian sea areas, we find some of the world's largest populations of seabirds, fish and marine mammals, some of the most productive marine areas in the world and areas so affected that they are referred to as Europe's last wilderness. Our rich sea areas have been the basis for housing, transport and industrial activities in impending times. Coastal and marine areas have therefore been a foundation for the development of Norwegian society, our culture and our identity. Two thirds of the population of Norway still live less than ten kilometres from the sea, and the sea is still the source of a significant part of our economic activity. However, both fisheries, aquaculture, shipping and petroleum activities, together with land-based activities, have the potential to cause damage to the marine environment. History has shown us that it is not that the sea tolerates everything or repairs itself. In the past, pollution of the seabed has given us an enormous task of clearing up such old sins. Pollution has also caused fish and shellfish from many of our fjords to be eaten only in limited quantities to avoid health hazards. The government has a vision that future generations will also be able to reap the wealth of the sea. It requires that we ensure that Norwegian sea areas are also among the cleanest and richest in the world in the future. Norway is one of the first countries in the world to develop a strategy for overall management of its marine and coastal areas. I am therefore very pleased that the Committee has been so closely associated with the main elements of the communication. The treatment of the Great Britain today is clearly a milestone in marine environmental policy. The main purpose of the Landfill Communication is to put ecosystems at the centre and see the human impacts of the marine environment in the context. In the past, one administration has been seen, and not at sea at all. An eco-approach will be able to preserve coastal and marine areas as just clean and rich ecosystems for future generations, so that they can also have a basis for business, housing and culture. The Communication establishes tools and processes to enable a more comprehensive policy on the marine environment to be implemented, as well as proposing new policies in individual areas of major importance for the marine environment. The most important thing we can do is to address the impacts on the marine environment that we ourselves are responsible for nationally. This is a work we've been doing well in the year that's gone by since we released the marine environmental communication. The government has promoted a bill to extend the territorial waters from four to twelve nautical miles. We are one of the last nations to implement this, and it was totally overdue when the Cooperation Government promoted this. The proposal is now under consideration in Stortinget. Enlargement will include, among others: contribute to improved safety by enabling shipping managers to be identified further off the coast than at present, so that we release this potentially hazardous maritime traffic far into our distant rocks. The government is working to put in place international regulations and national measures against the introduction of alien species through ballast water. It shall be cleaned in contaminated sediments. This government has increased the efforts to clean up old environmental sins. The first thing I did was to increase the previous government's draft budget in this area, and it's also increased in the current year's budget, within tight and tight budgetary frameworks. Work has been started on all three elements of the strategy proposed in the Communication: 1. to prevent the spread from high risk areas and ports with a risk of spread2. ensuring a holistic approach through the development of state-of-the-art action plans, which are a prerequisite3. to acquire new knowledge through pilot projects implemented by this Government; In the past, it was just an investigation, and now we have started concrete cleanup in several places in Norway. This gives us knowledge of different methods to be analysed by a national council set up by the Government, and the Council will also look at the professional work related to the different solutions. The government is in the process of carrying out investigations into the consequences of all-year petroleum activities, ship traffic, fisheries and aquaculture and external influences. This is groundbreaking work, and it will also result in a separate management plan for the Barents Sea. As one of the world’s most important coastal and port areas, Norway must have high ambitions in marine environmental policy. Our marine areas have some of the largest populations of fish, seabirds and marine mammals in the world, and so on. This has also now laid a good foundation for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e496	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e499	As I also said in my post, using satellite images we can observe ship traffic, fishing boats, oil spills, you can follow the ice edge movements, you can see if any glaciers would loosen, and you can see algal blooms, etc. Today Kongsberg Satellite Services sells satellite images to, among others. Denmark and the Netherlands, but we do not use it paradoxically in a systematic way. Today, the government has got a clear marching earth to use satellite images systematically. We say, among other things: in the setting: ‘The Committee considers that it is now necessary to provide for the systematic use of satellite images, both in the day-to-day monitoring of the coast and sea areas and as part of long-term environmental monitoring.’;» There is also a unanimous committee that ‘refers to the Barents Sea project on screen’ and will ask the Government to come back to this in connection with the next year’s government budget. My question to the Council of State is, how will he now address this? For example, he wants to. contact the relevant participants in this project so that we can get a proper case for treatment for the autumn? My second question is that the Government has proposed several times to cut the allocations to the Polar Environment Centre. When the committee was visiting there, we got, among other things, research presented on air-conditioned toxins, research carried out on the basis of basic appropriations from the Ministry of the Environment and us in this Committee. Governments have also been in Tromsø, among others. at the 75th anniversary of the Norwegian Polar Institute. The question is: does the government see the need to strengthen this research environment and that at least it is not an area that should be cut in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e513	The President will assume that the appropriations come not from the Department or the Committee but from the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e517	The appropriations allocated to the Norwegian Polar Institute are important contributions for Norway to continue to be a leading knowledge nation in relation to the management of the environmental situation in the Arctic and also in Antarctica. We are leading here and will also be doing so in the years to come, not least through the great research we are now carrying out in preparation for the impact assessment necessary to take a position on further activities in the Barents Sea, and also in connection with the management plan with which the Government has been working, so that we will have a plan to show how we can continue to maintain the Barents Sea as the world's perhaps purest and richest seas in the future. On the basis of these analyses, there will also be an ecosystem approach to which the Storting and the Committee have defined and supported today. When it comes to the question of these satellite images, it's really tempting to say that we now have to deal with the new responsibilities system. The Coast Guard Agency has been given overall responsibility in relation to monitoring and oil protection by means of this Communication and by decision-making. I know that the Minister for Fisheries has a good answer to the question in relation to these satellite images. It's clear that there's only been a ripple in the last two years, so now it's actually easier to put this into practice. Now, even though this is now easier to use over and over again, it's not that these satellites can show the name of the ship. What you depend on when you can continuously monitor these satellite images is that when you see that, for example. oil comes out of a ship, you have to have planes to send up to reconnaissance, see which ships it is and take their name. I assume that the Minister for Fisheries can elaborate on this in his speech, and what is related to coastal protection and oil protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e524	Let me repeat the positive feedback from SV until the Government has provided this important message. Not least that this should be knowledge-based, that one should have an ecosystem-based management of marine resources and that the precautionary principle should apply, SV seems to be an important superstructure in relation to this message. What's the challenge is just about a thing to follow up on this in its own government. There's an example of a non-do. I can then name the Villax Selection, where one does not follow the knowledge-based advice, or the activity that one now seems to increase, i.e. the oil and gas business in the Barents Sea, which it looks like a no let itself be pushed into. It is also not in accordance with the principles that this message provides. My first challenge is: how can the Council of State strongly support the principle that one follows the principles of the message, e.g.: by selecting partners that want what is in the messages provided by the Government? Two questions are related to the potential of SV mein in relation to cooperation with Russia, not least when it comes to research, environmental monitoring and oil protection in the north. Here's a challenge that I, having been in North-West Russia, don't think the government has done well enough. There's a very positive deal from the Russian side, and there's a potential here. I want to hear what the Minister for the Environment will do to make sure that there is even more speed in this, for example. an assessment in relation to the Northern Area Centre proposed by SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e538	Like the committee, I am very concerned about the environmental situation in North-West Russia. Many of the facilities that this is about are on our own, and we have great national interests in view of the fact that the environment is also prioritised here. The Bay of Two was mentioned as an example where there are many old environmental sins. When I was on a visit to Russia in September, we got a clean-up agreement in relation to the damaged fuel rods that are on board the Lepse, so there are fuel rods taken from the former icebreaker “Lenin” – or it was Stalin; it may not be that different! There are very big challenges here that the Government is concerned about. There's of course some balance here as well. I guess the committee also ran through Nikel and Petsjenga and the nickel mill there, where Norway is now spending over 100 million. kr. Now this company is running for billions of dollars in profit. I had a Russian delegation from the state Duma on a visit last day. I then underlined that the main environmental challenges can never be solved through small contributions from the Norwegian state, but Russian authorities also need to set environmental requirements, so that some of the external costs that these companies incur for the environment are internalised and become internal costs in these companies. The government is following this up by now focusing more on renewable energy, among other things. We are now supporting renewable energy through the use of biofuels in Arkhäng. We can then transform old, truly polluting oil power plants into bio-fuel plants. With regard to this marine environmental message, I believe this is groundbreaking internationally. It has also received the full support of Stortinget, and Stortinget has also developed the message in a number of areas that I think are very good. Now, of course, we're going to deliver, and that's what we're going to do. I have then gone through some of those areas, and it is a prerequisite in the future for managing according to the principles that the Storting has now established. We are also actually delivering policies here, I must say! Although not everyone is satisfied with the salmon proposition, it has actually been implemented so that the wild salmon now has a right to drive in many places in Norway. And that's not the situation elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e547	First of all, I have to say that I belong to a minority. There may not be any rarity in the political context. But this also applies to where you live in the country. I was told by the minister that two thirds of the population lives less than 10 km away from the sea, and some of us are from the interior and are therefore not in that category. But nevertheless, we are concerned about the marine environment, which we know has a lot to mean for our country. Burnt emphasis here that Norway was one of the world's most important countries in coastal and marine areas, and he said that we are rich in seabirds, fish and marine mammals, and so on. That's good to hear. But I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment a little bit about how to do that. In the case of a letter of consultation dated September 2002, from the Ministry of the Environment of the Ministry of Oil and Energy on proposals for an investigation programme on the consequences of all-year petroleum activities in the area of the Barents Sea, I am interested to hear how the Minister for the Environment will ensure that his environmental interests appear. There may well be some conflicts of interest in this area. I quote a little from the letter. It says: ‘The investigation programme provides for the completion of the investigation already in the summer of 2003 and for that reason is based only on background. At the same time, it is known that existing knowledge about the ecosystems in the Barents Sea and the effects of different types of influence are partly very poor.» My question will then be: Are you following the precautionary principle here? Will the Minister for the Environment ensure that these references from his own department are followed up to the extent that there may be conflicts and will he stand on the side of the environment in opposition to the heavy oil interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e565	Our seas are clean and rich. They are also after 30 years of oil and gas operations, but this is because we have been leading internationally in relation to making strict demands. The last thing that has now also been addressed by the Storting is to set a zero-emission requirement in relation to hazardous waste and hazardous emissions from 2005. It is also the case that the SFT in the concessions it has had to deal with now places the list at a very high level in relation to making demands on the oil industry. With regard to the letter quoted by the representative, Enger, it was the Ministry of the Environment's input in relation to the original arrangement for an impact assessment by the Ministry of Oil and Energy. After all the recordings, both from the Directorate for Nature Management, from environmental protection organisations, from the SFT and also from different departments, a comprehensive impact assessment is carried out. The impact assessment that the Ministry of Oil and Energy is now working on is a good setup, and was also something new with this government. The Sem statement made it quite clear that it would not be possible to open up further business in the Barents Sea until an impact assessment had been carried out. It is important to know what are the most vulnerable areas, and to know what are the premises for future oil and gas activities in the Barents Sea. Therefore, we must now await this impact assessment before drawing conclusions from any new exploration activity. I'll have it on the table first. In the Ministry of the Environment, we are now working in parallel with a management plan in relation to what Stortinget is now adopting on an ecosystem approach, leading to the precautionary principle. What I'm going to do is balance and try to achieve a coexistence between these industries, and then we get a good basis on the table through a good impact assessment before we make decisions in relation to the further use of the Barents Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e572	The Minister for the Environment stressed in his introduction that we should create clean and rich ecosystems for future generations, and it is important to clean up old pollution. Therefore, the Workers' Party will have a plan for progress in such a clean-up. We want a plan to know the costs of such a clean-up, and we want a plan to ensure progress in cleaning up contaminated sediments in Norwegian fjords and marine areas. The government parties have not wanted this, and my short question to the Council of State will then be: Is it the fear of the Minister of Finance or the fear of future budgetary comrades that will prevent the Council of State from going into a plan to ensure safe progress in the clean-up of pollution?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e579	First, I want to say that I share Klungland's commitment to clean up old environmental sins. In more than 20 of our fjords, there are dietary restrictions on eating fish and crustaceans because old chemicals, especially PCBs, are being swirled up and become part of the food chain. This is something we can't be familiar with, and that's why the Government has also presented a plan for how we're going to move forward step by step to get a clean-up. It's also true that in recent years, we've been adding $10 million to the appropriations compared to the previous government's spending on bets. But we have to go forward in such a way that a clean-up happens properly and really. We have now made state-of-the-art action plans to start where it is worst, but we also need to carry out pilot projects to ensure that we have the necessary experience in how this is to be done. The reason why there is not so much international experience in this is that this primarily affects terrestrial soils. In Norway, we have many fjords that are taller and lower, and therefore many of these pollutants have not been flushed out. But when we're going to clean this up and spend a lot of money, also more money than what it's added up to in the last few years, it's going to be done in a real way. But I noticed that the representative of Klungland and the Workers' Party, after the opposition has now arrived, has been busy giving more to this, and I think it is positive. We also want to support this. Nor have we had any problems with our partners, whether it has been the Workers' Party or the Swedish Labour Party, nor the Progress Party, in order to get money to clean up old environmental sins. But I was a little surprised when the representative now said that they would get a plan from the Government to know about the costs associated with this. That's what you have to get. But then a proposal is proposed asking the Government to present during 2003 a stepping-up plan which makes it realistic within a decade to remove PCBs and heavy metals containing substances. But that is when the conclusion has been drawn. SFT has just said that it costs in the Timilliard class. First, you might have to wait for this investigation on what it costs, and then make such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e588	I have registered the Council of State's answer to the question from the Central Party, and it could almost seem as if there was a slight misunderstanding regarding the impact assessment currently being conducted, whether or not we should open the Barents Sea to petroleum activities. Because that's what you're investigating. It is not considered how to conduct any petroleum activities in the Barents Sea, but it is assessed whether it is appropriate to do so. The SFT was very clear in its opinion. Existing knowledge is deficient. There's a lot of knowledge that needs to be close if we're going to be able to say something knowledge-based about this. If we're going to be able to say something ecosystem-based about this, the knowledge gaps are even much, much bigger. It is an important step in this communication, that we should say something ecosystem based on the management of the Barents Sea. But it is therefore not compatible with a rush to open the Barents Sea to petroleum activities as quickly as possible. I might also add that I have faith that the Council of State has deep knowledge of ecology. He also knows that knowledge gaps about complex ecological relationships do not close up in a couple of months of investigation, but that it requires a lot of research – also, as the State pollution authorities have pointed out, new research. And it's not done in six months. You don't learn so much about myth, hedges and complicated ecological contexts in just a short period of time. Isn't it the only right thing to wait for this decision until we have an ecosystem based on a management plan for the Barents Sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e603	I noticed that the representative Sørensen assumed that I have deep ecological knowledge. I don't know if I can go well, but it's getting better. The learning curve has been steep, so to speak. With regard to the impact assessment that the Government is in the process of implementing, it is quite right, as the representative Sørensen says, that the Sem Declaration states that it will not open the Barents Sea and take a decision on this with new oil exploration and operations until an impact assessment has been carried out. Then you get the results of this, which I think has become a good setup. Many of the issues raised by the Ministry of the Environment in the letter to which it was referred have been addressed by this impact assessment. When the government gets it on the table, you will also have to decide. But we are not in a cheese lid in the Ministry of the Environment, and not in the Government, and we have come to the conclusion that the Committee is concerned that oil and gas activities will continue in the years to come. And there have been some other messages that have actually passed Stortinget, after both the Sem-Declaration was signed and the marine environmental message was presented. I would just like to stress that the impact assessment is not only important in relation to opening up further oil exploration and activities, it is also important for us to learn more about the requirements of State pollution control and environmental authorities, as leaders in the world, also in the Barents Sea, if we are to open up. I also believe that this is an important part of my job to take care of deep ecological interests on behalf of the marine environment nation of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e614	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e618	The main thrust of this big message is that we will have ecosystem-based management in the future. The areas of Lofoten and the whole Barents Sea shall be the first area we manage after this new model. It's no coincidence that this area is going to be tested, because it's one of the most rich, exciting areas that exist in the world, and that we manage. Primary production is extremely high along the ice edge of the spring, and this provides the basis for the high natural and biodiversity values that exist there. The Barents Sea has some of the world's largest and richest fisheries. Some of the world's most important spawning grounds for commercial fish species are concentrated along the coast of North Norway, and the currents of the sea there carry the highest concentration of eggs, larvae, of cod, hyss, sea and sheer and herring known in the world each year. No other area in the world has such concentrations. The cod can reach a stock size of up to 6 million tonnes and are the world's most important edible fish. The solder population may reach 7 million tonnes, and the Barents Sea is likely to have the largest worldwide lotteries. We must manage the Barents Sea in such a way that it is also one of the world's most important food barrels in the future. But an ecosystem-based approach also means that we take care of the species that we don't eat or live with. Not least seabirds, and the Barents Sea is one of the most important areas for seabirds in the world. Røst and Gestvartappan are among the world's most important birds in the case of olefins and lomvi. And if we're going to think ecosystem-based, we need more knowledge about this. We know today that 3/4 of the population of yellow-clove winters in the Barents Sea, that approx. 40 pst. in the Barents Sea, and over 1/3 of the world’s locusts nest and find their food in the Barents Sea. And if we're going to think ecosystem-based, we're going to take them into account as well. We know that the Lomvi population in the Barents Sea has been through a reduction that is the largest we have seen in any marine bird population ever in the world. Today it's just 5 pst. of its original size, and it illustrates the vulnerability of this area to intervention. We're also going to take into account that the Barents Sea is the richest area in Arctic strips we know about benthic fauna. And I'm glad we've managed to protect the coral reef we found outside of Røst. But we need to know more about this. That's just ten pst. by the bottom of the Barents Sea we know. Strictly speaking, we know the surface of Mars better than we know the bottom of the Barents Sea. It requires new research to do something about it. It is that we should be able to adopt an ecosystem-based approach, we should also take into account the marine mammals in the Barents Sea. We know that the Greenland whale is one of the most endangered whales that exists. It's called in English 'the right whale'. It was because if a shot at it, it didn't sink. That's why it was the easiest one to harvest, from early times. We have Greenland whales left in the Barents Sea. We're gonna take care of it. We also have an polar bear population in the Barents Sea, and that's the only area where it lives freely without being hunted. We have a responsibility to follow it up. I am delighted to see, in the shadow of a terrible war, that there was a good news from the United States last week. The Senate said no to oil drilling in Alaska. Eight Republicans crossed the floor and agreed with the Democrats to stop Bush" plan to operate with oil drilling in the Arctic. We also have our Arctic. If we open up the areas of the Barents Sea for oil exploration, we're behind the United States in being the best in the class in the environment. Let it be a little warning to future debates! Finally, I wonder if there is a minor error in the setting, which I would like to ask the chairman of the committee to look at. SV is very pleased that the Government will base the precautionary principle on the work on further follow-up in the clean-up of contaminated sediments. We have written that as a separate note, and I note to my amazement that the government parties do not agree with the Government in this very important area. It is fine if the chairman of the Committee can clarify it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e641	It may seem obvious that Norway has a long and vulnerable coast. Nevertheless, it is a reality that many of the most important vulnerability prevention measures are linked to just our long-range coast. Coastal surveillance is therefore a priority task. Both the Defence, the Naval Defense and the Air Force, and the Coast Guard play a significant role in maritime surveillance and traffic control. The Coast Guard Station operates three traffic centres for waters in need of control and, in addition, a national directive will gradually be introduced requiring large parts of the world’s merchant fleet to be equipped with automatic identification systems, which means that each country has to establish its own shore-side reception apparatus. An initiative has been taken here for cooperation between the Coast Guard and the Defence Department on how the Norwegian coast should best be covered by an AIS system. At all, coastal surveillance is an area where we are totally dependent on close and close military and civil cooperation. Defence is increasingly an operational resource for monitoring, both of the environment and of fisheries resources, and of course for the enforcement of our territorial border, as well as the vulnerability prevention and anti-terrorism preparedness measures, which have increased both qualitatively and to an extent since 11 September 2001, and which were discussed in depth at the Innst. S. No 9 — Treatment of the vulnerability message by the Storting. Military presence on the west coast and especially in the north areas provides the basis for an effective exercise of authority and sovereignty in peacetime and ensures national freedom of action and crisis management. Military presence may also be used to prevent instability and conflicts and contribute to effective environmental monitoring. For the treatment of Inster. S. No 9 The Stortinget – in the form of a decision – decided to establish a crisis management command for the northern regions at Landsdelskommando Nord on Reitan. The setting underlined that Retan must be a centre of preparedness and surveillance. I see from today's attitude of the Energy and Environment Committee that the Government has decided to set up a working group to promote concrete solutions for the integration of monitoring resources into a common civil-military imaging centre, just added to the Northern part of Reitan Regional Command. In my opinion, it will strengthen Retan, and it will strengthen the crisis management command as the necessary monitoring of the northern regions. It will also strengthen Reitan, which is likely to lose NATO infrastructure, like several other parts of Norway, but we will then have this crisis management command built up to become a proper monitoring centre for the northern regions. Let me add that among those delivering daily material for surveillance on Retan, the Air Force Control and Reporting Centre — CRC — is on Sørreisa, which will also be connected to the air radars in North Norway during 2003. There's a close interaction here. In the Vulnerability message setting, Stortinget also entered a traffic monitoring centre in North Norway. The current settings highlight the importance of having it set up quickly, for reasons of urgency. Let me then remind you that there was unanimity in the handling of the Vulnerability Communication – and there were two committees behind it – to consider adding this to Vardø. Finally, let me mention an environmental issue in Oslofjorden that also needs to find its solution. The large boats that enter the fjord, whirling up a lot of sludge. Oslo port services shall move 800000 tonnes of toxic bottom sludge from the internal port and wish to dump it at the Malmøykalven. However, this is a recreational area for large parts of the population of Oslo and for people from neighbouring countries. This area will become even more important as an open-air area when the Mosseweg is put in the tunnel. An alternative that we from Oslo have gone through is to move the sludge to Lang Island outside Holmestrand, to the special waste facility that is already there. They have also agreed to take this bottom sludge and also have the skills and technology to handle it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e662	Environment and seafood are two sides of the same coin. Harvesting of the blue field and customer's desire for safe seafood impose strict environmental and ethical requirements in the fishing industry. Norway has rights and responsibilities for some of the world's largest and most productive coastal and marine areas. The vision is: values from the sea – the future of Norway. A clean sea is a prerequisite for maintaining and developing the production and harvesting potential which is the very basis of the fisheries and aquaculture industry. The comparative advantages that Norway has through natural framework conditions and the competences that people along the coast have built up through generations can only be continued by the fact that the sea is well served. The Government will, and I am very pleased with the support the Committee gives to the Government in this work. The objective of resource management is to facilitate an off-take that ensures a high sustainable yield from fish resources, while at the same time safeguarding the consideration of the marine ecosystem. In this context, the Committee and I agree that sustainable fisheries management depends on the reduction of fishing capacity in order to be more consistent with the resource base. A prerequisite for realising the value creation potential of Norwegian seafood is that consumers choose Norwegian seafood and they both know and feel that there is safe food. A clean sea is very central in such a context, and I am convinced that Norwegian fisheries policy and Norwegian environmental policy are two sides of the same coin. Therefore, we will also see that the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of the Environment have increasingly shared objectives and common solutions, because environment and ethics will be important inputs in a food export industry such as fisheries. Both the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Fisheries are concerned with the potential for value creation based on the biological resources found in our coastal and marine areas. The quality of the marine environment is a basic premise for biological production and exploitation of these resources – whether as human food or as other uses. Contamination of the marine environment may remove the basis for such exploitation and may weaken consumer confidence in Norwegian seafood as a safe sea food. I am pleased that the notification of the marine environment receives good reception in the Stortinget, in the opinion and in the fishing industry, because it makes it apparent that the responsibility for maintaining the cleanest seas lies with more sectors. A key prerequisite for maintaining the cleanest possible sea is good safety and good sea preparedness. In addition to the offers already made by the Coastal Agency today, the Government has implemented and is preparing a number of measures to strengthen maritime safety and the emergency situation. The aim is to reduce the risk of accidents as far as possible through preventive work, but also to have a good preparedness if the accident is first out. In this work, the Government focuses on the challenge in the northern regions in particular. Oil transport and other shipping are increasing in this area, as has been the case with several of the representatives, and this development must be assumed to continue, inter alia. as a result of increased oil production in North-West Russia. By assuming SFT's responsibility for acute pollution from the New Year, the Swedish Coast Guard Agency is now responsible for State oil protection. The Coastal Agency is now responsible for both prevention and action if necessary. This means clearer responsibilities and better coordination in day-to-day management and in actions. Of course, with regard to the comments made by the Committee on Coastal Preparedness, I would like to take these with me in the further work on both the revised national budget and the 2004 budget. In this way, after taking over the responsibility for coastal preparedness from the SFT and the Ministry of Environment, I have undertaken a major effort to improve the coordination of the overall resources associated with the Coastal Agency and others that contribute to security and preparedness. In this way, I agree with the Committee that overall private and public response resources need to be seen in the context. The Committee points to the increased coastal oil transport and mentions both the towing boat capacity in North Norway and a traffic centre for North Norway. We are working on both issues and will come back to Stortinget as soon as we have an adequate decision-making basis, including in terms of satellite surveillance as a complement to the monitoring that, among other things. The coastal facility has 365 days a year, 24 hours a day, and will be further improved when the AIS system is up and running from 2004. In many respects, I have said that we are working on all these issues, and in this way, the Committee's comments are fully in line with the work and assessments that we are doing in the Ministry of Fisheries, and that we are concerned about. In this context, I can point out that an extension of the territorial limit from four to twelve nautical miles is currently being treated in the Stortinget. As soon as it is finished, the government will come back with the legal basis to establish fairway managers. We are working on identifying coastal sites and ports of refuge, so that we can avoid the situation of Prestige. We want to have the AIS up and go from 2004, and as I said, it will form the basis for better identifying vessels in connection with satellite surveillance. The traffic controller is being prepared, and we're working on the tug capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e690	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e693	At first it was that the Minister for the Environment more or less encouraged us to ask the State Council Svein Ludvigsen about the «Barents Sea on screen». Now he was talking in his article about satellite surveillance. But one of the points of the Barents Sea on screen is that it should be more than that. It has to gather the knowledge we get from satellite images and combine it with the knowledge we already have from the research environments and the knowledge environments in this country. It is also about strengthening long-term environmental monitoring. So here my challenge will be that the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Fisheries must cooperate closely in this area, also in order to be able to follow up the comment on this in a good way. My other question concerns what I am, among other things. has referred to the fact that in a letter to Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik, Troms County has stated that clear and unambiguous command structures need to be established. The letter states that today's command structures are partly unclear and at least not unambiguous. It's a clear signal and puts words on something that not only the county of Troms is busy, but it's a signal that at least I've got through a number of meetings and through people I've had contact with in the work on this message. In his speech, the Council of State stressed that he was working to achieve better coordination. But the point and the clear signal is that this is urgent. My question to the State Council Svein Ludvigsen is therefore: Will he take care to present the matter of setting up a traffic centre as quickly as possible and in a manner where it is seen in the context of the case of setting up an exemption command on Retan? Will he now ensure that, during the spring session, responsibility is cleared up, so that those responsible locally along the coast get it clear who is always responsible for what is related to traffic monitoring in case of an accident? Today it's not clear. This has to be cleaned up – and it's urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e702	Now I would like to tell the representative of Konglevoll that we do not have to describe the picture worse than it is. I do not know the lack of overview and coordination described here. I would think that there is hardly anyone who recognizes that it should be so unclear. But the government has recognized that it can do better. That is why they took the grip of what was started on 1 January, namely that SFT was moved to the Coastal Works. It is the Coast Guard with its presence on the coast that is undoubtedly the best coordinator, and precisely by bringing together more of the decision-making base, more of the preparedness, in the Coast Guard, and in the light of the experience we have done, not least with John R, I feel absolutely confident that the situation is good. But it can always be done better. That's why I stressed in my speech that the Government has an important work to do on a number of issues, not least in coordinating efforts in various departments and departments. It's urgent to get things up and go. I mentioned in my post, among others. extension of the territorial border, fairways, coastal areas and emergency ports. We fully financed the AIS in this year's budget. It allows us to make better use of any satellite monitoring. It is also the case, as I said in my speech, that there is close cooperation between the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Fisheries. With regard to the issue of the ‘Barent Sea on screen’, there are areas in which we have good contact and assess different input – as we will also do when the Stortinget has made its decisions today – in the follow-up work, which it is natural for the Government to have. Whether I want to come back to all of these things in the revised national budget or in the budget for the autumn, we'll get back to when they're presented. But we must not overlook that some of these things will mean significant counting, and it would be natural to take it into an ordinary budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e713	I have two questions for the Minister of Fisheries. One is related to a problem that SV and the Committee are concerned about, namely cooperation with the Russians in the north. One already has a cooperation there in some areas, about the king crab and oil protection, but in the Committee's view, having been there for a visit, it is quite clear that there is a great potential in far more areas than this if one is willing to use funds on it. Of course, there is also the ability to strengthen cooperation between them, for example. in the case of oil protection, which is absolutely necessary for the future. Today, SV has a proposal to create a Northern Region Centre, which not only concentrates on the Arctic and Antarctica, such as the Polar Institute, but links more of its activities to, for example, the Arctic. The Barents Sea area and its close cooperation with the Russians. I would like to comment on how the Minister for Fisheries views such a strengthening and, where appropriate, what kind of strategy the Government has for strengthening cooperation with the Russians in important areas such as research and oil protection and other areas. The second question is related to what this important message we are dealing with today has as a superstructure, this with knowledge-based and ecosystem-based management of marine resources. I hope that there will be a change of regime from the Government's side. In the fall and in the spring we treat error messages. In the middle of that treatment, 40 concessions were first thrown out and 50 new salmon concessions were added to the budget. My question is, is what happened there, a knowledge-based management or ecosystem management of marine resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e724	It is said from the representative of Langeland that from the Russian side there has been so much dissatisfaction with cooperation on fisheries management. I have to say that I am greatly surprised if some responsible authorities in Russia have been critical of it and pointed out that there was a great potential in this area with further cooperation. Cooperation is close, and it has been close since the Soviet era. There has been good cooperation, exchange of data, good cooperation between professionals, and we have developed this further after the transition from the Soviet Union to Russia. So both on resource research, on resource monitoring and on the control side, there's close cooperation, and perhaps the most successful cooperation we've had with Russia since the end of the Soviet era is on the fishing side. After all, the autumn negotiations in the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission continued this work on the basis of the idea that research should now be given even greater importance and that a more holistic and long-term management should be taken into account. So I feel that as far as the fisheries sector is concerned, which is one of the two areas for which I am responsible, it is a good and constructive cooperation. In terms of maritime safety and preparedness, I expect that we will also develop good cooperation there. This is why, for example: in connection with the establishment of the traffic centre, important from my point of view to maintain and further develop close contact, build on, inter alia. the contact established by the State of Finnmark, which we hope to follow up during the course of April with a meeting between the authorities of Russia and the authorities of Norway. When it comes to the northern regions, I have to remind you that it's not like we don't have activity there. The Polar Institute is an institution that also has close and good cooperation with Russian authorities. So here, maybe it's a little bit important that you take inward into reality, too, not just single statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e733	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e738	I am not going to go through the debate that I think has been constructive in many areas. That applies to proposal No. 6, which I understand is a little complicated to keep up with in relation to the business committee's consideration of the matter of the royal crab. On the basis that they are to have a holistic treatment of that piece, SV draws proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e743	The representative of Langeland has drawn up proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2356]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e765	The situation on the labour market is of great concern. Almost every day, we hear about companies that go bankrupt, are laid down, flagged out or decapitated. Many industries and sectors have problems and are struggling. This is a very serious situation. It also applies to the petroleum sector and to the supplier industry. Some of the most serious in the petroleum industry is that the search activity is now as low as it is. We almost have to go back to the beginning of the oil adventure to find such a low search activity. There might be several reasons for that. One of the reasons is that many of the last wells drilled have been dry. This may have meant that the interest has decreased. The fact that the industry perceives the blocks that have been declared, as being of little interest, can be another reason. We also register a falling interest in Norwegian base from the largest international oil companies. It is also a very serious signal. In Norway, the oil industry is a very important part of the Norwegian economy and value creation. But internationally, we're not that big. From that perspective, it is absolutely necessary that we constantly focus on making Norwegian base an attractive base for oil companies. The signals we politicians give are crucial in such a context. It was therefore important for the Workers' Party when we dealt with the spillage message about the oil and gas business last autumn, to clear aside the uncertainty that had been sown by the Government when it came to the supply of new exploration areas. Because it's not going to get away from the fact that there was a lot of uncertainty in the industry about what was the government's goal, especially for the northern sea areas. I am pleased that we, together with the government parties, were made clear that decisions on this should be made before the fall when we get the impact assessment, assuming that it is good and thorough, so that we can give clear signals for the further driving plan as soon as possible. It is on this basis with some concern that I record that the Ministry of Oil and Energy adds up to what may look like a shift in this schedule. A press release dated 4 February of this year states that the investigation will only be sent to the hearing on the second quarter and will be sent to the Government during the autumn of 2003. However, I expect that we can have the opportunity to make the necessary decisions for the autumn when the impact assessment is completed, and hope that the Council of State will be able to ensure that that will happen. Last week I met several rapporteurs from municipalities that have offices delivering installations to oil companies. The situation they described is far from light. In some quarters, the employment situation is good right now. An example of this is Egersund, who recently got a contract, but also there has been a lot of uncertainty for a long time. The prospects of filling the order books, so that one avoids perms, are very poor in many places. Several yards have already significantly reduced the number of added yards. The most serious situation is perhaps the situation right now at Kværner Rosenberg in Stavanger. On Friday, Aker Kværner decided to sell the yard within three years, and it is very uncertain how many jobs there will be in the future. The danger that in a while we may have similar situations at other shipyards is very great. Saturday's evening post look-up shows this. The situation in the Norwegian offshore market is described as ‘rare’. There should therefore be no doubt that exceptional measures are absolutely necessary to prevent such a situation from becoming permanent. We can do that if we want. In 1999, this industry was in a similar situation. It was then that Storting's initiative was taken to reverse developments. We did that for a long time. The government shift in 2000 also contributed to creating new optimism in the industry. This shows that it is useful to take policy initiatives. Such initiatives are now being called for, because it is absolutely essential that there is an active stance on these issues. I would therefore challenge Steensnæs here today to explain what initiatives he will take towards the oil companies to find out, for example. whether there are projects that can be accelerated and, if so, whether there are any obstacles that need to be removed from the road for more plans to be realised. In the oily message setting, the size of several actions can help reverse this development. Better framework conditions for tail production and for small and marginal fields were one of the measures identified. An overall committee stated in the setting that: «the authorities must be willing to assess whether established principles and existing framework conditions create the right incentives, including taxes and depreciation rules for tail production and small and marginal fields, for increased value creation and, where appropriate, adapting the framework conditions so that resources are not wasted». Both oil companies and employees' organisations support this, and I will therefore take the opportunity to challenge the Council of State on what he wants, and whether this job is in progress. Other measures are also identified from the oil industry and trade unions. But the impatience in the industry is great, and I should therefore like a slightly greater commitment from the Government to grasp this, because we are now losing jobs every single day. Then it's important that we turn all the stones that can be turned around, to find projects, small and large, that can now be realized. Nevertheless, the situation is now such that we will experience that several yards have to permit many of their employees. That is very regrettable. The most feared industry in such situations is the loss of competence by shifting workers into other sectors. There was something that was also focused on in the previous wave valley industry. The possibility of in-company training and labour market training not only kept the industry competent but also increased it. For example: Aker Verdal completed 87 pst. of the established course of competence. This has led the company today to appear to be very competitive in the international market as well. In the final report of the training programme, the conclusion is very clear: «Should the company Aker Verdal have a future in a future market, it was absolutely necessary to keep the organisation as intact as possible and retain the necessary professional competence. In a period of leave that lasted from November 1999 to June 2001, we had only nine separate redundancies. This in itself suggests that we were able to keep the organisation together. Competence has been retained through this, but in addition we have received a formidable strengthening of competence in relation to the strategic competence needs the company itself has defined. This should be a significant competitive advantage in the market.» This possibility is significantly weakened today with the employment policy of the Bondevik government. Jobs clubs are not the answer to these workers. At least there's no one I meet, who says that's the answer. That is why I am interested in hearing something about the Government's plans and answers to these employees. Because we also have a responsibility to ensure and further develop the great and strong competences we have around the country within these industries. As is also stated in the interpellation I have submitted, Stortinget had a clear message to the Government when we dealt with the oil and energy department's budget for the current year. That's what we said. ‘be The Government shall provide a description of the situation in the Norwegian offshore workshop industry and review the competitive situation of this industry in relation to other EEA countries and shall notify the Stortinget in the Revised National Budget for 2003’. In time, it has been shown that it was absolutely necessary to ask the Government for such a replay. Statoil’s decision to provide the Spanish shipyard Dragados with a large supply to the Snow White project, due to an eye-catchingly large price difference, calls for a reduction in competition between Norwegian and Spanish shipyards. It's urgent. I look forward to this review in the revised version, but I still want the Council of State to be able to inform something about the provisional status of this work. At a time when unemployment increases every day, we have to turn all the stones, and then we have no time to lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e806	First of all, I would like to say that the oil and gas industry is an industry with great potential. In St.meld. No 38 for 2001-2002 we pointed out, as we know, that we have the potential to maintain oil production for at least 50 years and gas production for over 100 years. This long-term development path will bring great revenues to the Norwegian community, but of course it depends on our being able to meet the challenges facing petroleum activities today. I will now take into account what concrete activities have been undertaken to achieve this goal of achieving the long-term development path. This year, and in the next two years, we will have a very high level of investment on Norwegian soil. Annual investments in 2003, 2004 and 2005 are estimated at around DKK 65 billion. The largest investments are linked to Snow White, Kristin and Worm Lange. In addition, there are significant operating costs in the establishment. In the years ahead, the annual operating costs on Norwegian pedestal are about 30 billion kroner. In total, investments and operating costs represent a market for the supply industry of less than DKK 100 billion per year over the next three years. The snow-white extension was approved in Stortinget on 7 March 2002. The project represents the first expansion in the Barents Sea and is to date the largest and most extensive industrial expansion in North Norway. Snow-white LNG is very important for the development of business and industrial competence in the region. There are currently several other development projects in progress. Among other things, the Grane field and the Mikkel field are under construction, with the planned start-up coming autumn. The Kristin field is planned to be in production from 2005. Norwegian base operators are also working to mature a wide range of new development projects. The biggest of these is Skarv. In addition, there are plans to further develop, inter alia: Ekofisk, Valhalla and the Tampen area. It is also planned to develop several smaller findings close to existing infrastructure, mainly with submersible facilities. Of these, the Ministry has recently received plans for the expansion and operation of the Oseberg South J structure. In the last decade, the number of search and demarcation wells on the Norwegian base has remained relatively stable between 20 and 25 per cent. years. In this way, 2002 was no exception. In the years ahead, it is possible that this figure will be slightly lower, although such estimates are highly uncertain. In my opinion, the recent disappointing search results must bear their share of the responsibility for any case. Fewer findings also reduce the need to drill demarcation wells. The government has recently taken clear steps to increase its search activity on the Norwegian pedestal. The Ministry currently maintains a very high level of activity with regard to the granting of new extraction permits. In fact, at present, three different concession awards are being worked on at different stages of decision-making. In mature, well-charted parts of the socket, the Government will grant new extraction permits in the North Sea allocations in 2002 before Easter. During the current year we will also establish fixed, predefined exploration areas in parts of the North Sea and the Haltenbanken in the Norwegian Sea. This is an initiative of the Government following close and constructive dialogue with industry. In the case of those parts of Norwegian pedestal less surveyed, the Ministry has already for some time worked on the 18th concession round. In line with normal practice, the Ministry sent the companies an invitation to nominate areas that are deemed to be particularly attractive at the beginning of March. This round will be announced during the fourth quarter of 2003 with allocation before the summer of 2004. The government is actively developing mature areas on a Norwegian base. Key challenges in these areas are to increase the lifetime of the fields by, inter alia: to increase the rate of extraction, to improve the efficiency of operations and to link marginal resources to existing infrastructure. The Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Directorate of Oil are in close dialogue with oil companies to ensure optimal resource management in the matured areas. In the years ahead, the Ministry of Oil and Energy expects a high level of activity related to the further development of mature areas. There is a significant value potential in increasing the extraction rate of existing oil fields. Today, the expected average extraction rate is 44 pst. for oil extraction. The government's ambitious goal is to raise this to 50 pst. Such an increase is not self-evident, but will require considerable efforts both by industry and by the authorities. In the context of the 2003 revised budget, the Government will provide an explanation of how the authorities are working to contribute to achieving this objective. The Ministry is also working to increase the diversity of rights holders on Norwegian pedestal. In recent years, this has been the case, among other things. open to rightholders specialising in the development of marginal fields and in tail production. This initiative, together with the scheme in which companies have the possibility to be pre-qualified, has led to several new players on Norwegian pedestal. The government has been concerned with the maintenance of a competent and competitive Norwegian supplier industry. The recent high cost growth, high interest rates and high prices have contributed to the loss of Norwegian industry in competition with the rest of the world. In order to cope with ever-increasing international competition, industry is primarily calling for lower interest rates and weaker interest rates. The tight budget that the Government got through in the Storting has already resulted in three interest reductions. At the same time, we now see the first signs of a lower dollar rate. The competitiveness of the supplier industry also depends on the constant development of technology and competences in relevant areas. In this respect, the Government contributes to petroleum-oriented research and development. It is also an important area of investment for the Government in the future. How we can maintain a competitive Norwegian supplier industry is also a theme in the Top Leader Forum, a central meeting place where I am in close contact with the operators in the industry. It's a forum I run. I feel confident that this cooperation between the different actors in the industry will be able to identify measures that can ensure a reasonably high and predictable level of activity in the years to come. I also point out that several projects have been launched within the framework of the Top Leader Forum, precisely in view of the future stable development of Norwegian petroleum activities. With regard to the recent allocations of development projects to foreign yards, there should be little doubt that the Government is concerned that the Norwegian supplier industry will have the best possible level playing field. As is known, the government has launched an investigation into the competitive situation of Norwegian offshore workshop industries in relation to the corresponding industry’s framework conditions in the Netherlands, France and Spain. The result will be presented in the revised national budget for 2003. I refer to this statement in relation to what the interpellant asked for. Our offshore yards are leading high-tech solutions, good planning, security of supply and quality. At the same time, we must accept that industry in today's globalised world is becoming increasingly specialised, and each country and enterprise must focus on the comparative advantages they possess. We must accept that the competitive advantage of industry is changing in line with technological developments and that the Norwegian petroleum industry will not necessarily be able to maintain its competitive advantage in all parts of the oil and gas value chain. The fight against unemployment is a major concern of the Cooperative Government. Through an active industrial policy, the Government will secure and create jobs. A tight fiscal policy has contributed to the three mentioned reductions in interest rates, a lower dollar rate and thus a better competitive situation. Good cooperation with social partners on moderate wage-fixing is also crucial to reverse developments and improve competitiveness. The Norwegian oil and gas industry is a significant part of the Norwegian economy and makes a significant contribution to society through income, value creation, employment and competences. As shown in the oil notification, the Government has ambitions that this industry will continue to play a central role for a long time in the future, and therefore pursues a policy to implement this ambition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e850	I thank the Council of State for its feedback and explanation on what was asked. I'm glad the Council of State shares our concern. However, I am somewhat uncertain whether it is taken seriously enough in relation to what comes to the other end, namely active measures. I look forward very much to the revised national budget, because I understand that there will be something in relation to, for example. tail production. I hope that it becomes a commitment, and will hear if the Council of State can confirm it. It is good that we are now working on increasing the extraction rate. I'm also excited to hear what comes more concretely in relation to it. Of course, it is also good that things are now going on in the Top Leader Forum. But I want to stress so strongly that action is urgent – now! We cannot continue to investigate and expect action to be taken in one year, two or three years. I would like to remind you that over the past year and a half, there have been 75 new unemployed people each day. That trend we have to do everything we can to turn it around. Then more active measures must be taken than those I see from this Government, including in this area. I would also like to ask for answers on what the Government intends to do to try to maintain the skills that we now have in many companies, which now seem to be being outsourced in many places. I have not received a very clear answer to that. Then we have a huge challenge related to the competitive situation in relation to the supplier industry. It is good that the Government is now following up what the Storting has ordered it to do, because there is no doubt that if it really is that the differences are up to 40 pst. – as we have now seen two examples, in Egersund and in Stavanger – between the Spanish yard and the Norwegian yard, the Norwegian supplier industry does not face few problems, but very big problems. I have registered that the Minister of Industry – and I refer to the Business of the Day for Friday, 21 March – has given the same audit firm, which I understand is also the auditor of Dragados company in Spain, tasked with examining whether the Spanish Dragados is receiving support in breach of EEA rules. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think it is completely unproblematic if this is right, that it is the same audit firm that is going to check if there is something that is not as it should be, or does the Council of State think it is all right?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e863	There are important and priority themes for increased value creation in the interpellant petroleum industry. It is enough that there may be different assessments of some of the measures, and perhaps the order and phase-in of those measures. I don't ignore that. But I see it as vitally important that broad cooperation between the Government and the Storting should be established in order to agree on important objectives for this industry. I look at the further development of the petroleum industry as crucial not only for employment and value creation, but also for the national economy and good management of the petroleum resource. And to that we need a degree of broad consensus in the Storting, just as the Government and the Storing also cooperated on important objectives then St.meld. No 38 for 2001–2002, the oil spill, was dealt with here in Stortinget. I think it should also set the tone for what we're going to do in the future. I share the concerns of the interpellant Sylvia Brustad regarding further development in the oil and gas industry. We are facing quite major challenges and also some changes. The landscape is not static, it's changing. Our competitors are positioning themselves with new skills that create increased competition, and we need to take this into account. So I agree with the interpellant that we need ongoing action, not just the long-term planning. However, all three groups that are now working within the Top Leader Forum – one with tax assessments in the oil industry, another with competitiveness and one with reputation – are fast-working and concrete working groups to come up with measures that can be implemented in the short term when the measures are agreed. When it comes to maintaining competence, I would just like to stress that it is important that a flexible workforce can take on new tasks, and multi-competence will probably be essential to achieve this. Finally, as far as the situation of Kværner is concerned, despite the problematic situations that this group has faced, I would nevertheless remind you that the Norwegian supplier industry can compete and win large contracts, as Kværner did on the Worm Lange, and as Kværner Egersund did, where they got a big contract yesterday. As for the relationship with Deloitte & Touche, I would like to point out that it is under the Minister of Industry, and he is dealing with this issue in relation to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e876	We in Norway have every reason to be proud of what we have done after 30 years as an oil nation. We'll have to think about that. 30 years ago this resource was found, we had almost no knowledge of this area, while we are currently in the turbulence in several areas. There are currently very few — if anything — countries that can compare with Norway and the way we have managed to exploit our petroleum resources. When an oil policy developed early in the 1970s, set two clear goals, namely that this would be the whole people's property and benefit everyone, and that one would build the Norwegian industry based on this raw material. I think we have to be able to say that we've done well to achieve both of these measurements. Policies have changed forever. One has adapted to new challenges and international game rules, but the two goals have always stood firm and are decisive for the political choices one has made. When it has done as well as it has done, it is because one has been able to make the right political decisions in good time. Now there are black clouds and falling activity. But now, as before, we can reverse this trend. We've done that before. Both at the beginning and at the end of the 1990s, there were word-dried and empty workshops. Both times, it was a good idea to reverse developments. Making a targeted decision made it possible to get the wheels started again. In 1993, Minister of Energy and Industry Jens Stoltenberg contacted the parties and started the so-called NORSOK process. The cost reduction was 20 to 40 p.p., and again the workshops were filled up. In 1998, the oil price and activity dropped, but again the Labour Party, following close dialogue with the industry, managed to make concrete proposals in connection with the revised national budget in 1999, and a decision was taken that led to the reintroduction of the activity and filling up the workshops. We've reversed developments before, and we can do it again. It is important that pessimism is not now allowed to attach itself. Development is not fateful. It is determined by the political decisions, among others. is done here in the hall. By making the right choices we can also get the right developments, but we must be willing to use an active industrial policy, which, unfortunately, the current government sacrificed in favour of an infallible belief in so-called industry neutrality. Recent recessions have been linked to a fall in oil prices. Now, unfortunately, we have also had a time of decline when there is a high oil price. That means we have bigger problems than before. Norway has never been able to compete for the cheapest, but we've been able to compete for the best, and not least we've managed to compete for being a political guide. Unfortunately, I have to say that we haven't been able to take care of ourselves, and Norway has a frame in the last few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e889	It is right, as the representatives of Brustad and Akselsen claim, that the situation in the Norwegian oil and gas industry is alarming and serious. The activity on the rigging market is very low, and much of what has been drilled has not produced the desired results. The competitiveness of Norwegian capital is weakened, and oil companies often find it more sensible to invest elsewhere than in Norway. The situation of Norwegian offshore shipyards is very serious as a result of a lack of professional activity, and this can now lead to both the lay-offs, dismissals and fragmentation of the environments of competence that have taken decades to build up. Not only are there fewer jobs to compete for, but we are seeing more and more examples of Norwegian shipyards losing in the fight for the missions, and that these go to foreign yards which at least seem to be cheaper. The size was treated just before Christmas The government's announcement of the oil and gas business. In dealing with this, there were clear signals from oil companies, offshore shipyards and trade unions that the situation was serious and would be further exacerbated if nothing was done. The active substances to be used were equally clear. Give us new prospective areas, give us more money for petroleum research, give us a tax regime that gives us clear incentives for niche and tail production, they said. But what happened? Yes, despite the alarm bells ringing, and ringing loudly, we experienced that the Workers' Party and the government parties were forming an alliance not to do any of the world's things. They so beautifully write in the setting that they want the ‘long-term development path’ for Norwegian oil companies, while not taking the necessary steps to achieve this goal. I reviewed the vote this morning, and the only proposal that the Workers' Party and the Government's parties voted in favour was that the message should be annexed to the Minutes. The Progress Party proposed to open drilling in already allocated licences as soon as the ongoing impact assessment for the Lofoten-Barents Sea had been carried out, if this did not identify new problem areas. In addition, we proposed to reduce a wide-ranging sample to review the tax agenda on the base in order to improve this and to develop tax incentives in terms of niche and tail production. We also proposed that the Government refrain from introducing petroleum-free zones in the northern regions. In addition, I would like to remind you of our proposal for a petroleum research fund of DKK 10 billion, and our proposals for tax relief in advance of wage settlement, which would obviously strengthen our offshore shipyards in competition with non-residents. I now hope that both the Government and the Workers' Party see the seriousness of the situation, and show the power of action instead of just talking, because there is now a need for action, we will be able to get Norwegian oil and gas operations up from the trailer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e904	Let me start by congratulating Kværner Egersund on the mission of an American oil company. This company clearly prioritises keeping its assignments in Norway. It may be that we need to change the policy and grant new licences to foreign oil companies instead of Norwegian ones, so that we can strengthen the yard industry in this way – to put it ironically. Let me also hope that part of the activity in Kværner Egersund will have ringing effects in relation to Kværner Rosenberg in Stavanger, where an absolute need seems to be to take action to maintain your competence. A few words about what is missing - easy control. Repeatedly, one feels that there is no will to control from the Storing page. On the contrary, it's the will to give away control, and it has some examples of it. We had frigate bags. Norway was going to build new frigates. Instead of prioritizing the Norwegian shipbuilding industry, a priority was given to giving the assignment to the Spanish industry. One could, if one wild, do as the English do, build this in their own country. But the majority wanted to move the job to a cheaper employer. Now, the amount, which was initially $12 billion, came up in $20 billion to build these warships. Another example is Snow White Sake. Statoil has a multiple, with the Labour Party at its head, privatized. They've said they want a company to run business. So you're not supposed to be running this company anymore. The company should govern itself on a commercial basis. That means that one says to Statoil: choose the cheapest solution, because then we get the most money back. That responsibility must be shared by the majority. So it was the bulk of the population who decided to privatize Statoil, which decided that one would operate the way one now operates. Then a laconian can say: Yes, but one did not direct this state company before either. No, but at least one had the ratio. The fact that governments, either from the Labour Party or the Right Party or whatever it might be, were not governed was their choice. But the condition was there, and it's now taken away from the plural. I am pleased that the Council of State confirms that he is now working on the proposal that SV got through unanimously in Stortinget on this with increased extraction rates. It is one of the areas that needs to be addressed to speed up research and job development. It is also the case that a majority say that the conditions for tail production need to be looked at more closely, and one has the problems related to the EU and EEA territory and the distortions of competition that are said to exist. So the government has a job to do now, and it has to come back with a strong signal in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e921	The issue raised by the representative Brustad in his interview is important and very topical. A broad political majority wants further development of the oil and gas industry by contributing to a stable level of activity, focusing on technology development and further internationalisation of industry. This was explained in connection with Storting’s treatment of the oil and gas message before Christmas. Petroleum activity has been a central asset in society and has a time perspective that is considerably longer than most of our other industrial industries, although we know that parts of Norwegian base are mature, and that some places are technically more difficult to extract. The companies are now in the process of nominating current exploration sites for the 18th exploration concession round, and the Ministry of Oil and Energy aims to allocate sites in spring 2004. The Christian People’s Party is concerned that the two previous search rounds were so discouraging. Promising fields such as President and Solstik did not deliver the expected results. The paradox is that we know more and more about the socket, and we are getting better and better seismic tools. Still, the companies bomb when they look. This shows that we are dealing with an industry where uncertainty is high, and where actors must be willing to take greater risks. The companies that look, lose money, and society misses income and increased activity. It is important that the authorities and the petroleum industry jointly sit down to find out what can be done to bring up the search activity. State Council Steensnæs pointed out in its intervention a number of measures that the Government is now taking to bring up its activity, and it is important that the close dialogue between industry and government through measures such as Konkraft and the Top Leader Forum continues. With regard to the conditions of the supplier industry, it is not only the search results and the interest of the Norwegian socket that are decisive. The krone price and the level of interest rates are also factors affecting the competitiveness of the supply industry in Norway. Operators in industry say that the krone price and the interest rate are the most important conditions of competition. The last three reductions in interest rates in recent years have contributed positively to the Norwegian industry. So the government has contributed to this by keeping the government budget tight. Yesterday the news came that Kværner Egersund got the contract from Conoco Phillips to build a platform in Ekofisk, worth NOK 1.75 billion. In the Address Paper we could read that Aker Verdal is building a platform chassis worth 320 million. kr. These are examples of the fact that it is not just dark in the Norwegian shipyard industry. However, it is important that we find measures that allow us to exploit the high potential that remains on the ground in Norway, and by doing so contribute to less uncertainty in the labour market. This is a common political responsibility which the Government and its parties on the Stortinget also take seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e938	I share the interpellant's concern that the search activity is low nationally. What makes this a source of concern is first and foremost that the rigours today are quite low, and that the oil price is fairly high. But I want to stress that I don't think it's a strange situation. Because if we look at the work of oil companies both in relation to West Africa and the Gulf of Mexico, these areas are also marked by greater stamina than expected just two to three years ago. I have no doubt that the oil and supply industry is our leading knowledge industry, and that it is very forward-looking and more long-term than many would like it to be. That's why I think it's important that someone doesn't at this point blackpaint the situation. It's important because we need to have recurring recruitment to this industry, and we need to have a drive in the development of the technology, especially in this area. At the same time, I think it is important that one does not settle down on the fact that Norway has become good at a number of things, including internationally, for example. mean depth underwater solutions or drilling. We must constantly fight to push technological progress forward in this area, so that this industry can in the future be what is one of the most important things we can do with technology and knowledge. All studies show that technology is the most important competitive factor for this industry — it is not taxation, it is not framework conditions, but it is the technology that is the main competitive factor for the industry. What we should ask ourselves then is: what do we today rate from society in terms of reinvestment in the ability of the oil industry to develop technology? I think that's a good question, considering the huge income society has from this industry. Another aspect, which is also crucial for the competitive factor, is the interaction between the supplier industry and oil companies. What is the problem, when one sees an increasing award of contracts from Norwegian oil companies to foreign yards, is that one can destroy or confound the necessary interaction the oil companies must have with the supplier industry to just develop new technologies, which can once again be groundbreaking internationally. In this picture, oil companies are not alone, they are also dependent on the supplier industry. One good example is that 15 years ago the average extraction rate was 35 pst for the five largest areas of Norwegian cap. Today it is 53 p.m., and that means an increase in revenue both for the companies and for the state through an increase in oil extraction of approx. Four and a half billion barrels of oil. In terms of both tail production and extraction rates, it is important, but it is our will and ability to reinvest society's resources in technology development that will be significant. I would also like to mention that the Central Party has recommended to the Government, in the context of the revised national budget, to return to the type of competence enhancement programme that was used against Aker Verdal, launched by the central government in 1999, which is precisely adapted to the knowledge and cyclical everyday life of the supplier industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e953	The search activity on Norwegian pedestal falls and in 2003 will be at the same level as in 1968. The findings are getting fewer, and the findings per. The well has fallen dramatically. This is the picture per person. today. I think it is necessary to launch more measures. I think we need to go into concrete measures that can improve the situation, and we need to get more governance of developments in the future, so that we get better use and a better employment situation. I will mention the following measures: Firstly, a uniform and stable allocation policy, where extraction permits and allocation of blocks and areas take account of employment and stability for the whole industry. Secondly, a more predictable and stable rate of expansion, taking into account the industry’s capacity for new construction. Thirdly, a more predictable and stable maintenance and modification activity on the base. In practice, this means that the Storting must make clear decisions, such as: implies: opening the unopened areas of Norwegian continental shelf extraction permits gives the right to exploit and increase production bets on the development and operation of marginal openings for a better taxation of small and marginal fielded concessions that are not used within a reasonable period of time, withdraws all actors who can promote good development solutions within Norwegian standards and have a strict framework for health, environment and safety, provide opportunities for participation in the operation and production of small and marginal field-increased bets on user-driven research and development, and the bet should be long-term and have predictable framework conditions If we do this, I am convinced that it will give us greater opportunities for stability and increased employment in the future as well. Norwegian oil and gas industries must form part of more committed cooperation in order to do each other good. Oil companies must take on seriously what they say about cooperation when new projects are to be developed. The debate on the award of the contract on Snow White is a poor example of such cooperation. Our main competitive advantage is overall delivery, design, compilation and completion of major tasks at the right time, high levels of competence and high-tech solutions. That's what we have to do together now. This is where the Government must take initiative. The leaders are here, it's just taking the initiative and showing action.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1002	A brief comment. The representative Langeland wants to go back to a system where the Storting is going to run the businesses and impose them where they are going to buy their products and services, and he refers to Statoil, that it would be much better if we had had full control of it. Fortunately, he stands quite alone with such a vision. Even in the former Eastern bloc countries, there are not many who will have that kind of management of businesses. Every year, it has been shown that if companies do not constantly subsidize them, there will be little productivity, poor profitability and a great risk of bankruptcy. The representative, Brustad, addresses important questions. However, the problem is that immediate action rarely turns out to be good in the longer term. Perhaps the loss of contracts may not only be in vain. In many ways, then, you really go into the issues and ask, what's the reason for this? Is there something about ourselves? Perhaps in the future we will also be somewhat more cautious about constantly increasing the cost level of Norwegian business? This inevitably leads to the loss of contracts, because we are not going to be competitive. Recognising this, I think it's important to take inwards now. The second point raised by the representative Brustad is this with competence. Yes, it is very important that we make sure that we do not lose too much competence. But luckily, it is also that even though some companies are unable to manage, the skills that are present in such companies have a great ability to come up with new ideas, to create new businesses and to come up with innovation that can be very useful. So it's not just negative. We must not blackmail this, President, that we get the same situation in the oil industry that we had a few years ago, where the youth feels that there is no future in this industry, and thereby folds back. We need young people who are hungry to create something and who are hungry to use their skills in the oil and gas industry. It's important, and we have to make sure that we really manage to stimulate them to that. I agree that we should now be concerned about keeping up the activity on Norwegian pedestals in search areas, stimulating tail production and looking at tax conditions. And I'm glad that the Council of States so clearly acknowledges that in the discussions you now have in the top leadership forum, this is just one of the most important things. Things should happen quickly, but not more quickly than that we also have long-term good effects from the actions we are taking. So we must not have short-term solutions that destroy long-term value creation in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1019	I am a little surprised that the Council of State will not answer if he finds it problematic that the company Deloitte & Touche has been given the task of finding out whether the Spanish Dragados receive support in breach of the EEA rules in the light of what happened with Kværner Rosenberg. As I understand, and as I said before, this company is also an accountant for the Dragados. It might seem to me that this is like putting the belly to fit the oat bag, and as you know, it's not completely unproblematic. It is very important when it comes to going through, and it is absolutely necessary in this competitive situation that we can be 100 pst. ensure that there is an unhindered review. And I assume that the Council of State will follow up this further to the Minister of Industry. With regard to the feedback I have received, I am pleased that there seems to be broad support for the need to do something. But when the representative onarheim here says that immediate action is not always good, and that it will not help in the long term, I believe that it is rebuttable several times. For example, as far as the situation up in Aker Verdal is concerned, it was quite demonstrably so that the immediate measures that were taken for the enhancement of competence are now absolutely essential for that enterprise to be as up and up as it actually is. It is absolutely necessary to take immediate action now. That's why I'm a little worried when prominent members of the government say what the representative of Onarheim here said. Because that's the point, that there's no way to figure out and wait for something to happen in a few years' time. Something has to happen now to make us more competitive for the future. And in this way, taking care of the competences, which Arnstad's representative was in here, is absolutely crucial. But this government has a far too passive policy in relation to it. And job clubs are therefore not the answer to take care of the competence of this important industry. These are alarming signals. We're not going to paint black. It is important that the pessimism that is now in the industry does not get stuck, and then it is important that we come up with proposals for active measures now, and that we also do something to improve the interaction between the oil companies and the supplier industry, so that we get a better hand in this, which works positively for the industry. It is important to open up new search areas. It is important that clear signals are given and that the pace is kept up. And finally, to the Progress Party, I would like to say that the representative, Mr. Waksdal, has probably followed poorly when he has read the setting for the oil message, because there is no doubt that it has been accepted here, requires active action from the Government, and it is urgent now. Otherwise it is a little surprising to hear the SV's representative who on the one hand has opposed the development of Snow White, but on the other hand is very concerned that Kværner Rosenberg was not given the assignment. There is also a way to pursue policies, but there is no particular industrial development out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1032	The situation in the petroleum industry is clearly referred to as active action. It was underlined both by the interpellant, Sylvia Brustad, by the committee leader, Brother Yngve Rahm, and by other speakers. For my part, I have referred to a number of measures that the Government has already taken, which are intended to compensate for also an unforeseen disappointing outcome of the 16th concession round of dry drilling, which has a domino effect that first goes into the rigging industry and then into the supplier industry and other types of service industries linked to the supplier industry. It's kind of a matter of fixing this. But fluctuations have been part of the history of petroleum activity up through the 30–40 years we have had petroleum activity in Norway. I am pleased that there is broad support in the Storting for the measures taken by the Government, and that we can count on building on a large degree of consensus, as I said in my introduction. We don't need any black paint. Several speakers have been concerned about this. Both Olav Akselsen, Marit Arnstad and Leif Frode Onarheim were involved. I agree with the heart. Unfortunately, we have had a little too much black paint. It is easy to resort to words that reinforce rather than facilitate such a situation that one is now facing. Black paint works the opposite and helps to reduce expectations, initiative and optimism – as we need. But of course it has to be done, not just spoken. Therefore, I point out that the Government has actively addressed specific measures aimed at this industry in particular, but also with more macro-economic measures to strengthen the competitive industry more generally. Fortunately, it's not just dark in the industry. I will refer again to the contracts that were concluded recently, which show that we still have competitiveness in the industry and can offer interesting jobs to the young people in the future. I also agree with what Marit Arnstad pointed out, that the situation with regard to the petroleum industry is probably not strange when it comes to such problems. Both the oil price level and the fact that one comes with disappointing search drilling are situations we also face internationally. In conclusion, I would like to underline the point that Marit Arnstad also underlined in her contribution: the need for technology development. Technology is the instrument that enables us to bet on a long-term development path. It's going to be more demanding to get more out of resources in the future, and if we don't have technology available, we won't succeed in our ambitions either.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1047	The interpellant debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1061	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1072	There is a large majority in the committee behind the setting of the administration of the royal crab for the next few years. The King crab is a resource. But we have to use the precautionary principle to manage it, when we have as little knowledge of the consequences as we have today. The minority has a slightly different view, although we don't think there's a big difference between what the minority says and what the majority say. It's a lot of suggestions, but initially it's a skeptical one on both sides. On both sides, there's a concern about what's happening. Perhaps the question is, how do we proceed to achieve a target of least possible damage caused by the passage of this crab into Norwegian waters? We can all be certain that it was unfortunate that the Russians in the 1960s put out this crab in the Barents Sea, near Murmansk. In the first place, it wasn't often that one saw the crab. In 1970 there were a few boats, both Norwegian and Russian, that got some in the by-catch. In 1978 we got the grey zone agreement, and then it was forbidden to catch king crabs. In the 1980s, the number of crabs in the by-catch increased. At the beginning of the 1990s, a large quantity of this crab was discovered in Norwegian waters. What we need to be aware of when we are going to manage this crab is that it must be done in cooperation with Russia. This is not a Norwegian problem alone, it is also a Russian problem. And it's a problem that the Russians don't view this the same way we do it. They're not worried the same way we are. They only look at the king crab as one resource and nothing else, a resource to manage. What we should also be aware of is that the Russians are in fact still fishing for research, even though we in the Norwegian sector have become a few of them about commercialising. This means that we are forced to cooperate with Russia on the management of crabs. And then it's important to look at how we can manage a management that allows us to find out the possible dangers that this can bring, while also keeping the possibility open to exploit the resource that the crab is. The Committee's plurality looks seriously at this, and we have the same eight, we, both fishermen and environmental organisations, so that this can turn out to be a problem. At the same time, however, we note that crab is a great resource. It turns out that with the quotas available today, a boat can actually spend 250000 kroner on two or three weeks – rounded to the nearest whole ten thousand, to put it that way. So the question is, should we just skip this possibility when we don't know? Because it has not actually been found that this crab’s movement in Norwegian waters has any harmful effects on the environment. That's what the scientists say. This is claimed both by leading researchers in the Marine Research Institute and the Fisheries Authorities. That's why the majority want us to do more research on this and spend more money on getting more knowledge about how it is. I think it's important that we somehow manage this crab in the research phase, so that we keep the population down. It's the one. We can also reduce it in case we get into the situation that we might have to try to eradicate it. Now the vast majority of researchers claim that it is not possible, unless we take action that will also harm other species, but we are at least forced to take the step that we have to keep it as low as possible. Then it may be important that in this research phase we keep the population down. That's why the majority say that we might have to go to an additional outlet, leave more actors behind. We have to open up to hogcating, we have to open up to by-catch, and we may also have to have a ban on discarding. The last thing about it is that there is actually a company in Vardø that will now be investing in accepting the crabs that it will then be a ban on throwing out – there are often small crabs – and transporting them up in a land-based facility, without any environmental problems. The majority think that if it turns out that this isn't harmful to the environment, it would be awfully stupid that we've pushed away this possibility by now trying to clear out the royal crab, as the minority will. If we can operate this here, I'm overindulging that the fishermen and the fishing industries will be able to adapt to a catch and a use that will make the damage not be as they were at the beginning of this. It has already been shown that the fishermen on the Finnmark coast, where this crab is now the most widespread, can actually adapt to this by putting the yeasts in a slightly different way from what they did before, the few weeks this crab is in these areas, when it's difficult and one gets a collision between fish and other species and crabs. We thought, as I said, it's important to keep the population down, because then we have that resource, that basis. This could then be a reintroduction for those fishing on the Finnmark coast. Finnmark is perhaps the district of our country that has the biggest problem in creating new nutrients. Then this could be a way to add new alumni to an industry that might need a little bit of innovation and even more bones to stand on. It is also important that we have a good cooperation with Russia on the management of this crab. Through the grips that the plural now adds, I believe it would be possible to get Russia to cooperate in research. It's going to be a symposium for the summer, and it's going to be interesting to see what comes out of it. This year we get an increase in catch, which is also interesting to see the result of. The majority ask the Council of State to come back to Stortinget, specifically through the submission of the 2004 State Budget, and to outline how he might intend to manage the royal crab based on the statements made by the majority of the Committee. in connection with the establishment of a western frontier. I think it's important that a western boundary is set. So the professionals get to figure out where this western boundary is going. In our opinion, she should not go at Border-Jakob itself, but perhaps in the vicinity of the border between Finnmark and Troms, or somewhere between the northern and southern borders of Troms. Some place where, in my opinion, it would be natural for the Western border to go. Then it is clear that on the west side of her it will be free to fish for those who had to find crabs there. I want to say that it is commendable that this proposal was drawn up – it was created some uncertainty around it – so that the Stortinget could discuss and clarify this here. We do not reject the proposal, but we urge you to attach it to the protocol. Then we'll have hope and follow, and I expect the Council of State to come back to the Stortinget with this in connection with the 2004 state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1104	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1107	I disagree with the case spokesman that there is not much distance between the majority and the minority in this case. I'm very confused about that. We have two completely different approaches to the problem/resource of king crabs. I feel that the majority double communicate in the setting that is on the table today. One says that Norwegian authorities must use a precautionary principle when dealing with the administration of royal crabs. At the same time, you say that this is an important resource that you have to manage from the perspective that it is a resource. Then I wonder if the case spokesperson can answer me about what the guiding principle of the goods is. Who is to benefit from the doubt? When it comes to the interpretation of the precautionary principle in international law, one states that action should be taken before one has a certain knowledge that there is a problem. But this is where the multiples are going to do the opposite. I wonder if the case-speaker can do well for what the commodity-principle actually is?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1116	The pre-goods principle is at least not the way SV wants it, easy to kill everything right away, without seeing the consequences of it. As I would like to interpret the precautionary principle, it is that one tries to limit any damage. And that's also going to increase the rate of output. And it should not, in our view, stop at the level it is today. We want catch of crabs, we want to allow by-catch, and we want to put a ban on discards. This will most likely reduce the stock to a lower level than it is today. Then we have the ability to stop, to limit this. If it turns out that this is the resource that some of us believe it is and can be – at least in terms of value – we'll see. Then we have the ability to house this resource in a resilient way, like we're going to do it with all the other resources in the ocean, that's by taking out an outlet that keeps the population at a certain level. If, on the other hand, it turns out that this crab is so harmful that we have to assess whether we are going to try to clear it out, we will have to take such an assessment. That's also what the plural asks for. If the research was to show that he is a major harm to the environment, the majority ask that the government take action and try to clear him out, even if it turns out that it is not possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1125	This presentation by the Progress Party on how international environmental law is fused, I have to follow up. The pre-variant principle means that doubt should benefit nature. What the majority writes here is that nature in this case is the king crab. That's not right. Nature in this case is the ecosystem of the Barents Sea, and that's what we're going to do for the benefit of the doubt in this matter. This has been emphatically confirmed in conventions Norway has ratified. It should worry the case rapporteur, and it should worry the Council of State, that we do not have a management of this introduced species, which is in line with the Convention on the Conservation of Biological Diversity, where it states emphatically that we cannot compare introduced species with the royal crab – and talk about sustainable management of an introduced species – with cod, which belongs to the Barents Sea ecosystem. Providing the precautionary principle for the management of the royal crab means trying to keep the population as low as possible, for it shall be managed as an introduced species. It is emphatically stated in the Biodiversity Convention, and that is the only way to interpret a precautionary principle in this regard. I regret the ecological confusion that has arisen in the handling of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1134	When it comes to the confusion in dealing with this matter, I believe that the proposer has made more of it than the majority in the committee. Let's do that. That SV, for example, should have a monopoly on the definitions of the precautionary principle, should be so. But let it also be said that there is no evidence at all that this crab has a harmful effect on the ecosystem. There's no scientific basis for saying that. It's just to rely on Norwegian researchers, who claim it. Now we're going to put the resources on it, and we're going to set up a resource to open up to reduce the population of royal crabs. What's going to be the biggest problem, I think, is getting accepted from Russia to do it, because together with Russia we're set to manage this crab. Because it is actually a Russian population that has emigrated to Norway. Because the Russians are in fact still driving research and viewing this as a resource, the biggest challenge for the Norwegian government and Norwegian government is to gain an understanding with Russia in order to try to delineate and reduce the population. So let's do that by increasing the output. So I'm not going to repeat the other things that I'm talking about, considering what the plural sets are to limit and reduce the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1141	I feel very uncertain as to whether it is appropriate for the matter that the case-rapporteur tries to isolate the discussion about the leading var-principle to be an SV-question. It is that the precautionary principle implies that the doubt should benefit nature. There's no discussion about it. That is what is at the forefront of the var-principle, and that is what is involved in this matter. This is not a species that has emigrated from Russia and up to the Barents Sea. It's out of place. This is a alien species, which is deployed in an ecological context other than where it belongs. It spreads very quickly, and it is very damaging, as far as we can see, for a good part of those who are engaged in industry in the area. And it's a total industry that says they don't want this crab to be managed as a resource, but as an unwanted, alien species. In such a situation, I am a little surprised that the case rapporteur here is debating the discussion, which I have come to understand that he is doing, because there is an important discussion about which starting point to take, and then we can discuss the means. But you have to be clear about what is the starting point for the debate. And the starting point for the Center Party, from which we can't turn, is that this is a stranger, introduced, unwanted species, that needs to be treated then, and then we can discuss the means. Our starting point is free fishing. I'm afraid I have a feeling that the majority here are trying to use the precautionary principle in a context where it's not legitimate to use it, because it's not the lead that the majority put up, but wait and see.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1150	We claim – and will claim – that we are in fact in favour of the precautionary principle. I'm not disagreeing with that definition of it. When we have the ability to reduce the population in terms of population – and I believe that nature is going to deal with itself, because there are quite a number of years from 1960 to 1990, from the time the crab was first placed out and until he came to the Finnmark coast – the question is whether we should add to the management of this species as a resource if it turns out he won't be harmed. At the same time, if it turns out that this is something that we have to remove, one could also do it. The problem is whether one on behalf of nature can allow a free fishing of this crab, and whether it would be good for the marine ecosystem in the Barents Sea if we were to start a really heavy trip to remove this crab, as the proposal suggests. It may not be that it would be so good for the environment. It must also benefit the environment. So there's a balance right over here. That's why we're saying that we want to reduce the population in terms of population. It does if one follows the multiples tool. Then we have possibilities. Then the next step is either to try to clear it out, which the researchers doubt is possible to do, or to manage it in a way that allows us to take out the value creation that's in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1157	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1161	The prevalence of the king crab has recently attracted some attention in the media, which has given many strong opinions on this matter. I think that's positive and good. I also think it is good that the matter is now being discussed in Stortinget. Fishermen who have been used have long known the problems the king crab has created, and they have suffered some great losses as a result of this crab. After it was opened up, the same fishermen have also received quite a large income from the crab, but they are clearly concerned about how it will be managed in the future. Here I think the hearings and recordings have been done by industry, but at the same time I am concerned that we are doing the right things when we are going to take action to reduce the population. I see in some newspapers that it is presented as if the majority of the committee only takes economic considerations and does not take into account the environmental aspects of this matter. I will refute this as strongly as I can, and those who read the setting will see that this is not correct. I have to say, however, that we cannot build our decisions on what we believe and on what we believe and on what we look up in the media. Some headlines in the media have subsequently been identified as being directly incorrect by recognised researchers in this field. Therefore, it becomes difficult to support proposals on such issues that cannot be documented by research teams on important points or against which researchers directly warn. Then it has to be better to go forward in a way that makes sure that what we're doing is the most correct thing. But I stress that a joint committee is of the opinion that the Norwegian authorities have to base a precautionary principle on the further management of the royal crab. A joint committee also says that the spread of the royal crab should not be out of control, and that significant resources need to be put in place that can contribute to a thorough monitoring of the consequences of the crab. For this research work, significant amounts have been set in the budget of the year, and an overall committee also asks the Government to assess whether this is sufficient in relation to the extensive research that needs to be carried out before the impact has been assessed. We have received clear signals from the leading researchers in the field that it will not be possible to completely eradicate the royal crab, no matter how much we try. Therefore, it is natural for us to consider in this regard how fishermen can use the crab in their diet. I cannot understand that it should be wrong to consider this side of the case at a time when the fishing industry is struggling as it does. One of the leading researchers in this area in Norway, Jan H. Sundet of the Marine Research Institute, said in the hearing that less than 10 pst. the current stock of crabs has commercial value. He also said that by free fishing this would result in catchable crabs being taken in a very short time, and that the vast majority of crabs remain in the sea with the problems this causes for fishermen and possibly for the ecosystem. I cannot understand that it is wrong to consider this aspect of the matter in an environmental perspective as well before opening up the possibility of free capture of the royal crab. I think we need to spend some time finding an application of the crab that can't be sold today, so that the result won't be as the scientist suggested. We have noticed that in Finnmark, a project has been started to breed royal crabs in land-based closed facilities, as the case-law rapporteur was concerned with. This is going to be the first of its kind worldwide, after we've been informed. Those behind this facility see a large potential in terms of production and jobs. This company in Finnmark has signaled that it wants to buy small crabs that are not considered as saleable products and rear them in its plant. This can be one good application of the crab that is picked up and that has no commercial value in the current situation. I can only understand that it must be right to consider such important issues in this context, and I am pleased that the majority is looking at this with interest and asking the Government to include it in the further work in relation to the administration of the royal crab. And then I'd like to say that we're concerned about the possible consequences that the spread of the royal crab as an introduced species can have for the ecological conditions in the Barents Sea and along the Norwegian coast. That's why it has to be researched. Action needs to be put in place that is in line with the research and that will not create new problems for the ecosystem. We need to be sure that the measures put in place are the right ones and that no new environmental problems are created. Nor can it be wrong to make the best use of the crab that is being raised, so that it does not create new problems. I have confidence in the Government, in the Council of State and in the research community that the issue of the prevalence of the royal crab is constantly being assessed, and that a close dialogue is being established with the Russian authorities on the matter. We are here in a situation where we must also deal with Russia as a party to the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission. I expect the Government to provide the Storting with the necessary information, both on the contact with Russia in this matter and on other aspects of the administration of the royal crab in the short and long term. From the Labour Party we will keep a strong focus and a strong pressure on the matter. Then it's also the way that crabs are caught today, and it's going to be caught considerably more in the time that's coming. In this context, I am pleased that the government parties, together with the Workers' Party, are supporting fishermen who get damaged yarn and use to take advantage of the allocation of quotas for royal crabs. I also expect the Government to signal strongly to Russia that Norway cannot accept a postponement of blue crabs in the Barents Sea. In the hearings that we had in the committee, it appeared that this has been taken up with the Russians, and that there is no evidence that Russia has such plans. However, I think it is important that such clear resistance on the part of Norway is strongly highlighted in negotiations and in other contacts with the Russian authorities. As I said at the outset, in the past few days, I have recorded that there will be a major political dispute about the future administration of the royal crab. Neither can I see that the differences in views between the majority and the minority are so great in this case, but we have a somewhat different view of how we can best resolve this matter. I believe that with the majority that is created here, there is a greater chance of going beyond whether the Workers' Party should join an SV in a minority. I cannot accept claims that the majority in this case should have gone against both environmental and industrial interests. The setting clearly shows that this is not correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1191	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1194	I still disagree that the distance is not large between multiples and minorities in this case. We have quite different ways of approaching the king crab. Is he a resource, or is he an unwantedly introduced species that needs to be managed afterwards? When the majority in the Great Britain are so concerned that Russia might be able to put out blue crabs, I have to ask: why don't we just try that? It may be a valuable resource, and it may be a resource that can be valuable for Finnmark. The parallel to the royal crab is quite obvious, and he should also be for the plurality of the Stortinget. Of course, I am grateful and happy that the majority in the Stortinget come with their statements in relation to Russia's possible release of blue crabs, but I cannot understand why the majority do not draw such a conclusion in relation to the administration of the royal crab. It has been said in a previous reply that the precautionary principle is a kind of special interest for SV, for which SV should not have a monopoly on the definition of. I would just like to point out to the definition of the Directorate for Nature Management that it is a requirement that, in situations with a high degree of scientific uncertainty, considerable emphasis should be placed on the risk of environmental damage in concrete decisions – e.g.: in the administration of royal crabs. The consequence of this is that an action should be taken before clear scientific knowledge is available. So you're doing the opposite in relation to the administration of king crabs. Norway has ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity, which has clear requirements for the management of introduced species by states. I wonder how the Labour Party assesses these requirements, and whether one considers that the administration of royal crabs, as the administration will continue after the decision today, is in line with the Convention on Biological Diversity? So I would like to challenge the representative of the Workers' Party in relation to the clear advice we received from the business organisations Noregs Fiskerlag, Norway's Coastal Fisheries Team and the Swedish Federation of Fishermen, which is an important part of SV's proposal. Why will the Workers' Party go against the commercial interests in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1207	I think that this position, as it exists from the majority, is permeated by the leader was. We may have gone further in many ways than what is in the SV proposal. In the case of blue crabs, there is one species that is not exposed. The difference is that we have the king crab here and that we have to deal with it already here. And as I said, we've received signals from the prominent research team that taking up crabs that are not used can also be harmful to the environment and nature. There are such things that we need to take time to clarify. As I said, I am confident that the Council of State will take this with me, that he will put in the means to do so, that he will return to the Stortinget at another time and tell us how this is going, and that he will not take this as a suggestion over the table here in Stortinget without having all the facts on the table. And then I can't see that we've been in any conflict with the industry. And there too, the setting is permeated by the fact that we're taking a lot of precautions about exactly what's going on in the industry. But I admire the industry, when we have the crab here, and when, after all, it's going to do something to absorb it, they get to take part in the income that this can create. I think too many people have been in love with Finnmark for some time now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1216	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1219	First, I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur for his presentation of the matter and the work of the committee, and let me follow up by saying that I am joining the post that was held by the representative Arnesen. This I am well aware that the main question that should of course be asked in a matter like this is whether the royal crab should be managed as a resource or as a potentially very harmfully introduced species. Unfortunately, we are not in a situation where we are going to set the agenda for the future of the king crab here and now, as it may seem when we hear some speeches from the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. Should we be focused on the questions raised by representatives from the SV and the Central Party, the question of goods should have been asked many years ago. In fact, if you take the trouble to go through the case and the break in reading the SV proposals that are being promoted in the setting, you will find that the government has been on the track long before SV on this issue. I do not mean to minimize the question as such. The consultation process we have had has given us strong impressions in many ways. There is no doubt that we are going to deal with the Convention on Biological Diversity. Introduced species that are considered a threat, we are going to take the most seriously. We have actually committed ourselves to checking species that originally do not belong to us. But what's behind this case is that the royal crab as such has been introduced many years ago. We've seen that the population has been allowed to multiply, just since 1995 the population has more than sixfold. But one of the main points of this debate is that we manage the royal crab together with Russia. We don't control the administration of the king crab ourselves. I respect the fact that the individual party, like the government as well, wants to light up and take up the administration of the royal crab, but we don't do that by sticking our heads in the sand and pretending that the fisheries agreement between Norway and Russia does not exist, and ignoring that we can't manage the royal crab alone on a national basis. What has so far been the catch of the king crab is that from 1994 there has been a catch of research. Of course, it was based on the fact that the king crab had the potential to become a great economic resource. There may be shared views on whether this is an economic resource or not, but we saw that the first value in 2002 was between 30 and 35 million. kr. For about 130 vessels, there is no doubt that the royal crab is a significant contribution to the economic situation. For 2003, we know that, in agreement with the Russians, the catch has increased considerably, from 100,000 animals last year to 200,000 this year. For the first time, funds are allocated to the State budget to launch an own research programme. In addition, the Ministry of Fisheries has negotiated with Russia that during the year a major research symposium will be held in Norway, which will provide the basis for setting a Western border, which is necessary for Norway to manage independently the cross-border royal crab. That means that we should be able to stand freer south and west of this border in the administration of the royal crab as such, regardless of agreements concluded with Russia. Against this background, I would like to give recognition to the Government – and the Minister for Fisheries – for the work that has been undertaken in this area, which is, overall, a major challenge. I note with interest that this policy has created, as the representative of Arnesen was involved, recognition from research teams. Otherwise it's just to add, as others have said, that the researchers think it's impossible to eradicate the royal crab as long as it comes from the Russian zone, and as long as the Russians have the attitude to the royal crab that they're proud of it and in many areas view it as an economic field. But I repeat that the hearing gave the impression that there were not many who stood up and spoke the matter of the royal crab. However, I believe that the proposals that SV has put forward in the vote are well taken care of in the work that the Government is doing. And if the conclusions of the research that is being carried out for the first time in the Norwegian history of the king crab in 2003, would come to what some people warn against and describe as very problematic, then I think the whole Stortinget is well able to take the necessary action.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1234	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1237	I am pleased that the representative says that the proposals we have put forward are well taken care of in the government's work, because what we are talking about here is a form of biological pollution, and biological pollution is the most serious form of pollution we know. We go to extremes to fight biological pollution in Norway. The most famous biological contamination in Norway is Gyrodactylus salaris, the salmon disease that we have even treated rotenone by eradicating all life in watercourses, to get rid of. We go to such extremes to fight biological pollution, and we do that even if we know that when we talk about biological pollution, it's like we almost never manage to eradicate the introduced species if it's first there. I hear that this is almost being used as an argument for not trying. It's the opposite. The fact that the species is difficult to eradicate means that the precautionary principle must be taken into account and tested as much as possible, not least as possible. I've just been with the Committee on Transport to Australia and New Zealand, and I've seen a nature where one fights daily against introduced species, a nature that has changed because of introduced species, and where the ecosystem has been close by collapsing due to introduced species. And these are the questions the researchers are now discussing: Is the royal crab such a threat that it can lead to collapse in the ecosystem? Can we get a cascade of consequences from it, or not? In that situation, I am pleased that the representative of the Right says that we should base the Convention on Biological Diversity, because there is a clear talk about those issues. Finally, I would like to ask: is it that when we talk about the precautionary principle and that doubt benefits nature, is it the ecosystem of the Barents Sea that we mean and not the royal crab?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1246	I actually don't think there's anyone in this room who has any other purpose to attend to than just the biological. That means they're going to go ahead in the administration of the king crab. These are in fact up to the levels recorded by the Government, most recently in November 2002 in the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission. That is why all the issues raised during the debate today have been raised with Russia as our counterpart, to which we have to deal in all areas. In many ways, we can say that the bilateral Norwegian-Russian fisheries agreement is a pattern in relation to all the other agreements we have to deal with. Big and groundbreaking results were achieved in relation to everything else that has been done by administration in connection with the almost 40-year history of the king crab in Norwegian waters. For the first time, we get an understanding with Russia that the royal crab should be managed in line with the conditions to which we are obliged by the Convention. But the problem is that this crab is not released in 2002. When it was released, there was a legal release, unlike if we were to have a release of the blue crab today, which would be entirely an illegal release. All that is taken up by concerns here is the Government in full swing with care. And it's not that one party has any greater concerns than others on this issue. At least that is not my feeling about this matter. But we have to get the research and professional evidence for all of these claims on the table, and we know that we'll get that pretty soon. We have to act then, and I think the Storting will be able to take the necessary action.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1253	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1256	The SV proposal has given us fantastic positive feedback. And with all possible methodological scepticism in the back of my mind, I have to say that people in North Norway have agreed in their response to us that this was a good, important and correct proposal. At the hearing in the committee, we felt something so rare that a collective environmental movement was indebted to the business organisations that were represented on the hearing. They support the SV proposal, and they support the intentions of the SV proposal. Those of us who know the fishing industry well know that just the fact that the different fishing organisations are able to get involved is a very rare event. The proposers have become indebted and complain about some of the issues after the proposal was made. Nordlys wrote in the chairroom that SV was clearly inspired by TV images rather than by scientific documentation. Of course we don't. The fact that our proposal was made a few days after «Out into Nature» had a program about the royal crab was, of course, a very good timing for SV, but that was not the motivation to present the proposal. We have also registered the scientific objections that have come to the programme mentioned, and we have taken note of that. But no scientific input has overestimated me that our proposal to manage the king crab as an undesirablely introduced species is not correct. I would like to discuss what the right tools are to achieve this goal, but the goal must be that way. I mean a shooting bomb when one argues against our proposal by saying that it's not possible to eradicate the royal crab. That's not what this is about, it's about setting a goal, an administration goal for the king crab. There should be no doubt that the public debate surrounding the royal crab has been hectic. We have also noted that the debate has focused more on the means of action than on this objective. I mean, it's of less interest if it's possible to eradicate the royal crab, that's the goal that's interesting. This isn't about a creepy creature at the bottom of the sea. This is about the introduction of marine species as one of the most important tacks against the marine environment. They can lead to dramatic changes in the ecosystem where they are happy to establish themselves. There are changes that are to a large extent difficult or impossible to predict, because of the many complex contexts of the ecosystem. The Directorate for Nature Management, presented to the Committee, stressed that introduced species could change the entire ecosystem. It made sense to me that SABIMA, the Council for Biological Diversity, during the hearing in the committee, said that they did not know that one of the only introduced species that has the property that he could conceal himself, had the happiness or was a positive contribution to the ecosystem. Reducing stocks of such introduced species is one of the main themes of the follow-up to the UN Convention on Biological Diversity. The Convention shall be legally binding. By ratifying the Convention, we have also committed ourselves to Article 8h, which says that, as far as possible and as far as possible and as far as practicable, we must prevent the introduction, control and eradication of progeny species that could threaten ecosystems, habitats of species or species directly. This has been one of the environmental protection ministers at Børge Brende's core business. In a press release dated 17 April last year, Mr. Brende says that the Government will continue to maintain a particularly strict practice when it comes to species that are deliberately introduced. He says in a press release that we need to do more to stop the loss of biological deficiency. Burns say that emerging species have been assessed to be one of the greatest threats to the national and international biological deficiency. I can't understand that a person must not be a little indistinct in the government with regard to the consequences this will have for the administration of the king crab. But it's better to go to the chamber of the government. I'm not going to put myself in a special position. I'm recording that the economic benefits of commercial capture on the royal crab are being set up against the possible ecological consequences. When the leader of the Norwegian Fisheries Team on the hearing in the committee emphasizes that the royal crab is incomparable with traditional fishing, and that he can change the natural balance of the system, it impresses me. When the League of Fishermen looked at question marks at the administration of the royal crab, saying that Norwegian government powers are bold in their approach, it also impresses me. I think it's a great paradox that the outcome of the treatment here today is that economic interests with which the industry's organizations do not identify are still the starting point for the administration of the royal crab. I can't understand why Stortinget should add such an interest to the industry and community in Northern Norway. During the hearing in the committee, questions were asked whether the fishermen actually thought that the royal crab was a plague and a plague, or whether they were deeply satisfied with the economic benefits. I think both of them are the case. I think it is quite possible to recover quite a few fishermen who are very happy with the economic yield of NOK 250000 – as I have seen from the fishing pressure – in fourteen days of fishing activity when it comes to king crabs. Something else would surprise me greatly. But that doesn't help! The leader of Norway's Fiskarlag, Reidar Nilsen, said on the phone that the economic yield of some fishers from the king crab is clearly subordinate to the possible long-term ecological consequences and the plague that the king crab causes to other fishers. I'm wondering how much clearer it should be. I have also received clear feedback from Finnmark County Fishing Teams that they are some about supporting central Norway's fishing team's line in this matter, and then there would be no more doubt. I am forced to make it clear that we have also got the recordings that have come from representatives of the Marine Research Institute and Norway's fishing higher school in relation to the question that we are dealing with today. And we take note that a person does not have sufficient scientific knowledge to determine whether or not the royal crab is a threat to the marine environment. This is precisely why a provision should provide the precautionary principle. This is not primarily a question of the king crab's biology, it's a question of what approach you have to the ecosystem as a whole. As I have said before, the pre-war principle is a requirement that, in situations of great scientific uncertainty – we get confirmation from research on absolute debt in this situation – the risk of environmental damage is to be given great weight in concrete decisions. That means we're going to take action already before we have clear scientific knowledge. This is in line with what the majority have said earlier today during the treatment of the marine environmental message, where an emphasis has been placed on ecosystem-based management, knowledge-based management, cross-sectoral responsibilities and the precautionary principle. – And then a couple of hours later will be able to leave all the fine words and all of them override the principle when it comes to concrete decisions. It's probably not a unique event, but it's pretty clear here today. I found it almost unlikely that the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Government Party are able to argue that we must have a leading var-administration of the royal crab while managing the royal crab as a resource as long as we do not have scientific knowledge to prove that he is harmful. So one has redefined the leading principle of a waiting and seeing principle. If things go wrong, yes, then we're going to put action in place. I have to say I agree with a leader's article that was in the magazine Tromsø after our proposal came forward, where the leader writes that environmental protection is not about taking chances, but about being leading was. That's right! It has been little up to discussion both in the public debate and here today that royal crabs are pelagic. Therefore, the larvae are likely to be recorded in ballast water tanks on ships. We all know that there are expected to be significant increases in maritime traffic along the coast of North Norway, etc. as a consequence of Snow White. We are at risk of becoming an exporter of royal crabs, e.g. to North America. I wonder what kind of responsibility the majority of people take for that risk today. Our conclusion is that the king crab should not primarily be used as a resource, but as a potentially very harmfully introduced species. But we don't know – and that's the whole point. Managing him in this way will be in line with Norway's international obligations, including: through the Convention on Biological Diversity. That's the background to the proposals we've put forward to set the goal of keeping the royal crab population as low as possible and finding the measures that are best suited to achieving that goal, so that we meet our international obligations. Unfortunately, our proposals are being voted down in the Storting today. I guess there's no doubt about it. But I'm overconfident that in the long term, before history shows us that we were unfortunately right in all of our worst predictions, we're going to have a more sensible administration of the royal crab, because there's something pressing on, and because the government has a rather high level of ambition, etc. in relation to the Convention on Biological Diversity. I believe that these ambitions must also be moved home and not only apply to the international arena. In the long term, I'm overindulging that we're going to get right, and that we're getting a better and more sensible administration of the king crab. I think our proposal has contributed to it, and that this is a first step on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1293	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1296	I still can't, after Agent Elvik's posts, see the big differences between the minority and what the majority say in this position. What I might wonder about is that no SV will dwell a little on some of the environmental counter-conceptions that the researchers have promoted when it comes to immediately initiating the free capture of the crab – the conditions that are pointed to, that only 10 pst. can be exploited, and that the rest might go overboard. How does SV think we should deal with Russia as a negotiating partner in this matter? Are we just going to start without the previous negotiations that the majority has pointed to and asked the Government to take it along? Does not the representative Elvik think that we can then get into a conflict situation, which may prevent us from taking important steps to limit the spread of the king crab?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1305	I get to know that the majority in Stortinget needs to reduce the distance from the minority, but I don't understand why not could have supported the minority's comments and suggestions. I am very pleased that the representative Arnesen addresses the question in relation to Russia. I also realize that the royal crab is defined as a common population, and that we manage it in cooperation with Russia. But if it is to prevent Stortinget from giving a clear signal in relation to how Stortinget wants this species to be managed, compared to the fact that Stortinget actually wants to meet its international obligations, yes, then I don't understand anything! That is precisely why we have formulated our proposals so that we ask the Government to take the initiative of the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission. We realise that this is a Norwegian-Russian community – at least he is managed in such a way – that one needs to take the initiatives there, and that the Storting cannot take unilateral action. But I can't see where one should be so defensive. And if there's a main argument that one can't support the proposals from SV, I don't understand why it's a good idea to sit on that line, because it's in its turn to castrate the Storting – if it's allowed to say that on this platform! This is also the background for us to say – and as I emphasized in my main post – that the important thing here is to become a few about a management goal. And then I think the measures are subordinate to the goal. We like to rely on scientific input – I also said that in my post – in relation to what will be the important and right measures to achieve the goal. But I register here today that the majority reject the goal in the first place, and then the measures must be less interesting to discuss after that. I also listened during the hearings that when a researcher challenges them on the goal, they are some in the goal. That's what I thought was pretty interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1318	Since the president is really a doctor of profession, he has a very concrete perception of the word "casters", which he seems to be a little bit on the side of the vocabulary one should have in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1321	SV points to the different dangers and challenges we have in the management of the king crab. In many areas, we share the views of SV. It shows the observations of the majority in this case. But what surprises me is that SV is so impatient in this case. Why can't SV wait and look at the results that the research will tell us? SV's sloping safety seems something striking. We encourage SV to look at the results of the research while implementing restrictive measures. I do not see anything positive in this case, among other things. that the royal crab can provide more and new jobs in an area that really needs it, in Finnmark? We also feel that it can be seen as good district policy in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1330	I don't have a problem understanding that fishermen who get a relatively large economic benefit from catching royal crabs are happy about it, that it's positive and that it's kind of a contribution to nutrition. But that's not what this question is about. I would rather wish that the Christian People's Party could become a stronger ally in relation to a resilient administration of our most important marine species, namely the cod, instead of emphasising that the royal crab should be managed according to bearing power. Whether we're sloping or not is not the point either. I'm pretty sure of our international obligations, and that they're not being fulfilled as we administer the royal crab. Our international commitments say that we should take action before we have scientific evidence, if necessary. And whether it makes us sloppy or not, to me, is a relatively subordinate question. But I must say that I thought the Christian People's Party leaps quickly from its otherwise good intentions in relation to international environmental management, when one also has to fulfill it at home in relation to the royal crab.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1339	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1342	We in the Christian People's Party share the turbulence of the royal crab's impact on the ecosystem with the other representatives here today. The king crab leads to problems for many fishermen, and he spreads strongly, while the population increases to an extent. The Christian People's Party also has great respect for following up the UN Convention on Biological Diversity, and it is important to reduce threats from introduced species. In this context, we're going to go as far as we can to meet these requirements, while from the scientific point of view it's said that it's impossible to completely remove the royal crab. When this has been given, the Christian People's Party felt that there are more things that you need to point out and that have great meaning in this context. In the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission, an evaluation is carried out. increase king crab capture until stocking and stock development results are achieved. It is also appropriate to authorise the capture of king crabs as a by-catch and to prohibit the discarding of king crabs as a by-catch. It is important to stress that the administration of the royal crab must be done in accordance with the precautionary principle. Another aspect that we believe to be of great importance is that we must actively involve Russia in research, and that understanding on the Russian side to increase the uptake of crabs is desirable in order to reduce possible negative consequences. It is necessary to have a critical search light on the royal crab, and there is clearly a lack of knowledge about the crab and the impact he has on other life in the ocean. There are large amounts of money available for 2003 research into the State budget, and we have full confidence that the Government will follow up this research and assess these results in a satisfactory and adequate manner. We see the need to identify all relevant consequences of the royal crab’s existence in Norwegian waters. In this context, I think it is positive that a symposium should be held this year to deal with the facts about the royal crab – it is about the spread and ecological consequences – with participants from Norway and Russia and from research. The royal crab produces commercial/industrial nutritional properties, although the consequences of the expansion of the king crab in Norwegian waters are uncertain, and even if we recognise that it may have adverse consequences. Still, for life in the sea, it's of great importance to look at the positive sides of the king crab. It can become a valuable economic resource for those who participate in the catch. It's a resource that has a large market potential, where it's good prices to pick up for those in the industry. This can also be a beloved niece and thus provide jobs in the districts. This should be attractive in terms of industrial development and employment in the districts. It's a little daunting that SV doesn't accept this reality, that it's about. 130 boats participating in this catch. So it's going to be circa. NOK 250000 in income for these participating boats. This is an activity which does not depend on State aid and which we must at least approve is of some regional policy significance by providing revenue to participants from District Norway, where a hurt needs this type of job. I would also like to add that as a result, a farm that is land-based has been set up to see if one can use it economically and in a somewhat more controlled way. The majority, including the Christian People's Party, also sees that we need to have a positive look at the possibility that fishermen who get damaged will take advantage of the allocation of new quotas. We in the Christian People's Party are concerned about the rapid and powerful spread of the royal crab. We think that there has to be a west border for the spread of the royal crab, and we're of the clear opinion that research in order to map even better the different consequences of the presence of the king crab in the Norwegian territorial waters must have a high priority. While we are waiting for the results of research, it is important that an increase in the catch of the royal crab be allowed, which in this way leads to both nutrient development and living communities in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1365	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1368	I miss the old Christian People's Party. I miss the Christian People's Party that I remember from the time I worked in the environment movement, the Christian People's Party that was concerned with protecting about nature, and that at the time with SV was concerned about having respect for complexity, a kind of awe that there's contexts we don't yet understand, a kind of awe that we're going to tread a little cautiously when we're going to think that it's okay to start business. In this case, I experience a first-ever principle that has turned my head upside down. One argues as if the doubt should benefit the king crab. So here it's the other way around. These are the ecosystems of the Barents Sea. In this respect, the king crab represents a threat. This is not about whether or not we should research more or less in royal crabs, because everyone agrees that we should research more, learn more, know more. We can't be sure what's going on today. But we know that the king crab is a great potential threat. This case is about what awe we're going to have for nature in the period we're going to research more. Shall we have a little less catch and hope that it goes well? Or should we kneel down the precautionary principle and say that we must have a management target that will keep the population as low as possible because it is an introduced species? I hope to see more of the old Christian People's Party in this matter. I'd like to ask the representative if we can't show a little more awe and let doubt benefit the ecosystems in the Barents Sea, and not the royal crab, in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1375	I appreciate the outline used by the representative Sørensen, awe of nature. It's relevant. I should be in the first line and admit that one feels insecure. I think a mass collapse would have gone against putting out this crab if one had known he and could have taken a position on him, that it was contrary to the International Convention on Biological Diversity, as it has been pointed out here before. We have one fact today: the King crab is outstretched, and he's starting to get big spread. On that background, a default application has. Keeping it in check leads to increased output and research efforts, including: in the MARE project, launched until 2004 for the first time in order to gain maximum knowledge of the impact of the introduced species in Norwegian regions. It's important to have this knowledge. As a representative of the Christian People's Party, I'd like to have the awe, and I'm impatient to examine where the facts are and how a best person can get the negative consequences that this can lead to. But we don't know enough about this today. Both the department and the majority here in Stortinget are impatient to gain the scientific expertise and knowledge of the propagation of the species in Norway, so that we can put in place the best possible and most effective measures. The measures already taken by the Government show that a person is taking this seriously, and that one will gain additional knowledge, which allows one to deal with this threat to the ecological system in the sea in a highly accurate way. It is a high priority to identify such recognition and to introduce measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1385	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1388	The spread of the royal crab has happened quickly. Over the course of seven years, the royal crab population has doubled sixfold. It's been walking 50 miles west. News that has been referred to today suggests that today there are about 16 million king crabs in the Barents Sea. It's almost like one could say that there's been an explosive development of this species, which in no way has walked anywhere, but has been deployed in an ecological area where it actually doesn't belong. After hearing the debate, it is quite clear that the core question is the starting point for the management of royal crabs. Should the royal crab population be treated as a resource, or shall it be treated as an undesirable introduced species in the Norwegian ecosystem in the north? The opinion of the centre lot is that the risk of treating it as a resource is too great for such a starting point to be accepted. Our starting point, therefore, is that the royal crab must be treated as an undesirable introduced species in Norway, and that the instruments must then be selected. In isolation, we might see the king crab as a possible resource and a possible niche for the fishing industry. But then it's also important to emphasize that the industry doesn't want the king crab as such. The industry gives the opposite sign that it wants us to treat this species just as an undesirablely introduced species. It's acutely worded. But I have to say that from the hearings we have had, and from the examination in the committee, it is possible that it is not for fishermen's sake that the king crab should be treated as a resource, but for researchers' sake. It is in the case, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Centre Party, a wrong starting point for the debate. There are two important reasons why the Centre Party chooses to co-exist with SV in comments and proposals. One, as I said, is the starting point we think one should have in terms of the ecological consequences of the spread of royal crabs. It's impossible to predict the consequences this can have for flora and fauna, and the interactions in ecosystems are so complicated that none of us today can sit here and say that the king crab won't have negative effects. Therefore, there will also be a gambling if a waiter and looks too long in relation to the management of the royal crab. The second starting point for the Centre Party, which is also important, is, of course, that both environmental interests and business interests agree on how to manage the royal crab. I also think that an emphasis should be placed on an industry that is so important to the whole of Norway, and not least on the part of the country we are talking about here. I record that the majority also say that they will be responsive to the industry, and that they are busy clarifying what one can do in terms of reducing the population of royal crabs. I think that's positive, but I think that if you want to take the time to clarify, you can actually do it by opening up a free fish. Anyway, after what has been said by the researchers, it will take a long time to fish down the stock. Then it can be a reasonable starting point for a simple way to allow this to be fished freely. I don't think it's possible by the measures the majority wants to reduce the population adequately. I believe that the majority in the Chamber today insists on both treating the royal crab as a resource and at the same time trying to deal with it based on a precautionary principle – a precautionary principle that the debate here today shows that the majority has a bit of difficulty in explaining. I also agree with what has been said by the representative Elvik here earlier, that it is not very interesting to discuss whether it is possible to eradicate the royal crab or not. We have to discuss from the perspective what kind of administration to add up to when you think that the royal crab is a harmful, introduced species. Then, in my view, the only possible administration you can add to, free fishing – that, precisely because you don't have enough knowledge, you add to that kind of strategy. With these comments, I would like to mention the proposal from SV and the Central Party in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1416	The representative Arnstad has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1419	I agree with the case rapporteur, who in today's first article stated that the king crab is a resource. But we also agree that the royal crab is an introduced species in the Barents Sea. It is therefore not initially considered to be a natural part of the fauna of our northern waters. However, everything suggests that the royal crab has come to be – whether we like it or not – and the question is therefore how to deal with it, as the representative Arnesen correctly pointed out. If we ignore the limited amount of research, until now the king crab has been a one-sided problem for those who fish traditional coastal fisheries in eastern Finland. As a by-catch, the king crab has destroyed both its use and has led to the loss of catch and catch time for many fishermen. However, ever since we started research in 1994 in cooperation with Russia, it has been widely agreed that Norwegian policy should be to manage the king crab as a resource for future economic exploitation. As a result, the stock has now risen to a level where it has become a significant economic resource and how many can benefit from it, not least those fishermen who have been most affected by the by-catch problem, as the Committee calls for. I am also pleased that the Committee on Budgets and the Ministry of Fisheries have similar views on key issues. The initial value of the catch was over 30 million. kr both in 2001 and 2002. With less than 130 participating vessels, it generated revenue of approx. One quarter of a million dollars per year. vessel last year. And it's the ones who have had the most trouble with the crab, who are now reaping it, as the committee also calls for. In this way, I have already allocated allowances to those whom the Committee asks to benefit from. The value creation on land is also significant. The export value amounts to 50 million. kr for each of the last two years. In a period when a large part of the industry is struggling very hard, the royal crab is an uplifting exception with good profit margins both at sea and at land. Of course, with Varangerfjorden as the core area to date for the spread of catches, it is especially East Finland that enjoys the royal crab. This could be done, for example, by: have reason to ask what the situation would have been like for Bug Eyes without this economic vitamin injection. The King crab can turn out to be – I stress – a new support for coastal communities in Finnmark in the future. At the same time, however, there must be no doubt that the Norwegian authorities take seriously the problem of the royal crab as an introduced species. This government has stepped up its focus and efforts further, both nationally and internationally. In this way, this government has shown action since we joined recently. I would like to say to the representative Elvik, who is trying to question whether the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Fisheries disagree with the Royal Cancer and the Convention on Biological Diversity. I am not surprised that you do, but I am surprised that you have not got what is in Annex 2 in a letter from the Ministry of Fisheries, where the Ministry of the Environment states: ‘The Ministry also considers that the measures currently notified are as follows: The letter of the Minister of Fisheries to the Committee of 14 January 2003 will be in line with Norway’s international commitments and with the Government’s marine environment policy.’.» So the answer is given, if you had read the setting. We have agreed with Russia to establish a western border for the joint management of the royal crab, which will provide Norway with a contractual basis to limit the prevalence of these populations west of the border. At the same time, it should not be denied that it will not necessarily be easy or cheap to take action against further prevalence. The Committee shall consider increased fishing activities. We have doubled the Norwegian harvest of the king crab from 100,000 animals last year to 200,000 in the current year, for the harvest. Russia has also doubled its quota from 300 000 to 600 000 animals, which means that catches will actually increase from 400000 animals last year to 800000 animals this year, as the Committee also calls for us to increase. Last but not least, increased research efforts in the royal crab will be carried out this year, with a budget provision of almost 5 million. kr. The Institute for the Exploration of the Sea is entrusted with the task of developing a major programme for research and monitoring the consequences of the entry of the king crab into our waters. We also aim to prioritise such research over the years to come. Together with Russia, we have launched a three-year joint research programme focusing on the issue of the impact of the king crab on the existing Barents Sea ecosystem. In this context, an international symposium will be organised in Norway focusing on introduced species during the current year. So if you're fishing the king crab all the way down the best way to go, you could ask. At my discretion, it's a better option to look for a middle-way between total defrosting on the one hand, which we don't know the end of, and uncontrolled growth in the stock on the other. I have noticed that the majority of the committee wants us both to increase the fishing effort and to impose a ban on king crabs as well as to consider catching female crabs. There are measures that we want to include in the further discussion, and we will come back to that, as the Committee asks, in the forthcoming budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1466	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1469	Since it has been demonstrated with all the clarity that the majority of the population and the minority of the population disagree on how to interpret the precautionary principle, I wondered if the Council of State could do any good for the Government's interpretation of how to apply the precautionary principle. Who will benefit from the doubt? As I referred to in my main post, SABIMA was listening in the committee to the fact that one does not know a single example that an introduced species that has the property of being able to imagine has been a success. Does the Council have an example of introduced species that have the characteristic that they may be mistaken, which have been a success? My last question is at the Convention on Biological Diversity. One has had a meeting of the Parties to find clear guidelines on how to deal with the obligations of the Convention on Biological Inadequacy. The Minister for the Environment was quite clear in the press release sent by the Ministry on 17 April last year, in view of the fact that he was pleased with the guidelines, and he says that the Government will continue to have a very strict practice when it comes to species that are deliberately introduced. Then I wonder if the Minister for Fisheries agrees, and when these principles say that lack of scientific knowledge should not be an excuse for not initiating actions, how he thinks it is consistent with Norwegian administration of royal crabs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1478	The President would point out that, in general, the doubt should benefit, but is a little uncertain about who the defendant is in this context. Maybe the Council of State can figure that out?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1481	I cannot contribute to that clarification in addition to noting that I do not consider myself to be accused. From the debate one might imagine that the crab had to be, but that it indicates that the jury will absolve it! There are questions about interpreting the precautionary principle. Yes, there is no doubt in my mind that we should interpret it, that the doubt should benefit the environment. But it has not been scientifically proven that the crab has a negative impact on the ecosystem after 40 years in the Barents Sea and in the North. Clearly, it has had an economic negative effect on coastal fishermen’s activity in Varangerfjorden since it wandered across the Norwegian side. You can agree on that. But then it's a little obvious that those who invoke the researchers as the tone of interpretation of the precautionary principle do not focus on the researchers' statements. The leading researchers we have on crabs say that we can't prove that it has a negative impact on the ecosystem. We'll have to include that in the further work. So it's like, among other things, The representative, Ivar Kristiansen, explained in his statement that this species was delayed long before the Convention was adopted. In that way, we also have to take it with us. But I think it is important to take inward that we manage this resource and this crab along with the Russians. The consequence of us breaking out of that cooperation could be that the Russians with equal rights could break out of cooperation, for example. the cod. So here it's important that we bring with us the realities of this and relate to the international agreement, so that it doesn't have unfortunate consequences for other species.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1490	The word "king crab" had probably not been mentioned in this room until I mentioned it in 1998, so there is nothing new. But that's not what I was going to ask the Minister for Fisheries. When the question was asked as to why we manage the royal crab differently than we manage other fish in the Barents Sea, the Minister of Fisheries was not present, there was another Council of State who answered for him. But why do we manage the king crab in a way other than other fish, by the draft decree of the king crab on which there is no quota, while we have landing orders of other fish, that is, the opposite of what we have in the EU? Postponement orders are available in the EU. So we have draft bans on king crabs that we don't have quotas on, and we have bans on landing. If the yarns had been full of royal crabs, and you didn't know your poor advice on how to get them out of the yarns and then took them up on the Kaia, you could get a report to the lenner and get a cure for the yarns being full of royal crabs! I asked that question in this room, and I was told that it should be. My question to the Minister for Fisheries is: why do we manage the royal crab differently from we manage other fish, when he has been proven to be standing here on the pulpit and said that we should manage it as a resource? The question is, why should we have draft directives on king crabs, while we have landing orders on fish?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1499	There may in turn be reason to recall that there has been a broad political agreement that the royal crab should be managed as an economic resource from the point of view of the Norwegian side and until we opened up commercial capture last year. Since this government took over, we have had an active relationship with the issues that have been discussed today, for example. I think that's getting a little bit lost in the discussion that we now have. We've increased the output. We double the withdrawal with the Russians, so that a total of 800,000 animals will be taken out this year. We set up a Western frontier where, with the recommendations of the researchers, we will ensure that we can best limit the spread without having clear insights about how we should deal with it – rather than the minority today. So far we've managed it for economic reasons, but since it's only about that. 10 pst. However, of the royal crab population that has a commercial value, there is a difficult balance we face if we still want to exploit the crab as a resource. Here is the explanation of the question that Mr Bastesen raised. If the output gets too high, we could risk fishing out that part of the population that has a commercial value, and then we're left with just plagues. It is precisely this balancing process that the Government is trying to maintain, both to exploit it as a resource and to contribute to its non-enlargement, as well as to increase research efforts and thus provide us with more knowledge of this. At the bottom of the decisions that we've taken and that we want to base, it's primarily scientific knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1509	In response to the representative Elvik, the Council of State starts by saying that the precautionary principle is to let the doubt benefit nature. That's right. Then he keeps on saying that it's not proven that the king crab is dangerous, and the second after that he forgot what he said first. No, it has not been proven that the royal crab can lead to collapse of the ecosystems in the Barents Sea. We actually don't know that. But the precautionary principle means to reverse the issue the other way around. That means that neither is it proven that it can't lead to it. Then I have to say that I am quite amazed at the conclusions you draw, if at the same time you say that you take the precautionary principle seriously. 40 years ago, researchers said that the pollutants PCB and the injecting drug DDT were harmless. Researchers drank DDT to convince people that it was okay to use such a spray. They used PCBs as chewing gum to convince them that it was completely harmless. Based on the lessons we have learned when we now need to spend billions of dollars to clean up after old pollution, we have to let the doubt benefit nature. For the sake of the royal crab, it means that nature is the ecosystem of the Barents Sea, not the royal crab. That means that if you're looking at the royal crab as a resource -- excuse me, President -- it's actually the way to prove that it's harmless to do it. The burden of proof lies with those who want to manage it as a resource, not with those who will try to keep it at a minimum level because it is an introduced species that can lead to very serious damage. I would like to ask again: is that the ecosystem in the Barents Sea, or is it the king crab that the doubt will benefit?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1516	The President will assume that in this context, the form of action ‘you’ was meant to mean ‘man’.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1519	After hearing the representative Sørensen try to draw a scare image of the king crab and use PCBs as an example of that, I guess you're about to get completely out of proportion. There's going to be limits to how far you're going to draw it. I insist, as I said, that there is no scientific evidence that the crab has a negative impact on the ecosystem. But you could also say in another way that there are no adverse effects in the ecosystem. No one can observe it. It is shown, for example: that flyers have disappeared in Varangerfjord. Yes, flights have also been lost in other parts along the coast without there being royal crabs there. You can show that many people have been plagued by interference in tools, but it's not part of the ecosystem. It is the whole argument of several minority representatives that the fishing industry and others, including environmental organisations, have been negative to it. But the researchers, the researchers who have researched this, say, and what's the experience 40 years after the crab was released, is that the Scarecrow that's being drawn, where you compare with the PCB development, is not right.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1526	With the last answer from the Council of State to the representative Sørensen, I must say that it is beginning to become clear what is the Government's grip on the royal crab. If you want to de-dramatize it by saying that other things have been worse, I wonder if the Council of State is at all in agreement with the purpose of the Convention on Biological Diversity. The point of it is that if we lack scientific certainty, doubt should benefit nature and the environment and not the royal crab. It sounds as if the Council of State wants to leave that purpose. Then we have to ask again, who is to benefit from the doubt? Is it the king crab, or is it the ecosystem of the Barents Sea? The point here is not that the king crab is as dangerous as PCBs. The point is the potential long-term ecological effects of the king crab. That is also what the Convention on Biological Diversity takes care of. Where there is a lack of safe knowledge, the relationship should lead to an actual set of actions. So I'm going to say in favor of the majority in Stortinget, and as a consequence of the proposal to SV, that one starts going that way. As I said in my post, I am overconfident that the SV proposal will eventually win through to the management. But I have to say that the last answer to the Council of State makes me ask questions about what is the Government's attitude to the Convention on Biological Diversity. Let me also clarify, since it was stated in the Council of State, that the point of the proposal by the minority is not to break with the administration that Russia has. This is precisely why the proposal has been formulated in such a way that we ask the Government to take the initiative in the Commission. So it's not about introducing unilateral Norwegian measures, it's about taking initiatives in the Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1537	In fact, the Government has taken initiatives against the Norwegian-Russian Commission. That's why we can show that there's a completely different policy of this government than the one that's been in the past. We have taken the initiative that has caused catches to double from last year to this year – an increase from 400,000 animals to 800,000 animals. It is a result of a more active attitude that we have now introduced research programmes, both funded by the State budget and in close cooperation with Russia. That is why during the year a large international symposium is to be held in Norway. That's why we've had an impact: we took it up with the Russians and we're going to be able to manage the royal crab in a different way, based on national objectives alone, on the south and west sides of the western border. It should also be said that it is very doubtful whether it is at all possible to eradicate the crabs. So the question is, who introduced the PCB equation? I reject the fact that the PCBs scare image that was pulled up is relevant to the situation that is in the Barents Sea and in the coastal areas associated with the royal crab.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1544	I did not get an answer to the question – we are used to it in this room. Why should we manage the king crab differently from other fish, was the question I didn't get an answer to. The council says that we have a western border for the spread of royal crabs. So we're going to put the first one right over here. What about a northern boundary? What about a north-west boundary? We now have factory trawlers who get royal crabs in the jet, but they don't know their poor advice on where to make it off, because if an inspector comes on board, they get fined, because they've taken care of the crab. No, they have to get it to sea at full speed. As I said before, why should it be that you can get fined, and that you break the law by taking the yarns full of crabs to Kaia? The Lensmann, who should have given a fine, must break Norwegian law – which is adopted in the nodelsting and laying – by not providing the fishermen with a fine. Why has the Ministry of Fisheries said that it should be so? The council says it's scientists who've been researching the royal crab. It is directly wrong to say in this room that there are scientists, because there is one scientist who has researched the royal crab. There is one single scientist who has been in Varanger, and Varangerfjord is destroyed as a yarn fjord because of royal crabs. I myself have been in Varangerfjord on yarn fishing, so I know what that means. They cannot put the yarns in Varangerfjord because of the royal crab. When you take out 800,000 pieces this year, you take 200,000 in Norway. What's wrong with the Norwegian and Russian administrations – when they take out 600 000 and we take out 200,000? There's something that must be stone hacking wrong. We're taking out 800,000 more, but 600,000 in Russia and 200,000 in Norway. And what's the northern boundary? Can we prevent the royal crab from spreading to Svalbard, to Bjørn Island and Jan Mayen? No, we can't. It's too late. We're in the last team, and you have to have free fishing at the extremes in order for us to be able to limit the growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1567	The representative Bastisen concludes by saying that we're recently made in the administration of royal crabs. So now it's going to be said – I've tried to do it, and the majority has stressed it strongly – that this government has actually taken the initiative and can show that we have a much more active attitude to it. We're trying to do a lot of work to take care of the financial interests that might be related to this, and we're doing it in such a way that it doesn't just become a nuisance. Because if we don't manage this properly, we can risk ruining the economic advantage, but we're left with all the plagues. For neither the majority nor the minority have any constitutions about how we're going to eradicate this crab. Both the majority and the minority are asking for increased catches. So on the Norwegian-Russian side, we're up to 800,000 animals. The reason why there is a disparity between Norwegian and Russian catches is related to prevalence, and it is entirely in line with the administrative methods used when managing resources together, which we can also refer to in the case of other species. So it's not that it's right that there's only one scientist. It is also being researched on the Russian side. On the Russian side, the crab has been longer than on the Norwegian side, so we have to include it in the assessments that are being made. In the case of a Western frontier, a Western frontier will in many ways also be a southern frontier, depending on the position you have. It's just taking out the compass and the map, you'll quickly see that a western boundary could well be called a southern boundary. In the course of the year, on the recommendation of researchers, we will draw such a limit. We agree with the Russians that we should be able to manage it by Norwegian method, and then we will also have an attempt to see if it is possible to do what others have recommended, namely to eradicate the crab on this western side of the border. But we're going to come back to the necessary measures when that limit is drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1578	So the line change is over. The President will recall that it will soon be the last time it has been made in view of the scheduled time for the morning meeting. With the consent of the President, the President will propose that we finish the debate on case No. 3 before the morning meeting is cancelled, and that we start the evening meeting with the handling of case no. 4 – and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1583	I've said most of the things in the lines, but I think it's important for the hall and for the president and the council to find out that I've been fishing for yarns in Varanger, and I've been living with the king crab for all the years since 1964, when it was released. I must honestly say that it was just as if you had hit me in the head in 1997 when I entered the Stortinget. And in 1998 I took it up here in this room. Then it was dismayed, because then no one cared about the royal crab. Today, however, SV and the Zenterpartie have taken an interest in and will deal with this matter. That's how the crab was put out – there's no doubt – by the Russians. But then it has walked in Varangerfjord. It has spread and destroyed Varangerfjord as a yarn fjord. One cannot put yarn in Varangerfjord without having royal crabs. One doesn't know his poor advice, for suddenly the yarns go full of royal crabs. And you don't have the right to take the yarns ashore if you don't have the quota for royal crabs, because here are the so-called research quotas. There's one scientist who's been researching the royal crab every year, and he's been distributing a quota to the boats that were supposed to have a research quota on it. It's research that's been going on in Varangerfjord all along. So if one had got the yarns full of royal crabs and took them ashore to pick out the crabs, one would have been guilty of punishment because one had no quota -- one had no permit, one had no research quota on it. That's the way it is today. I've asked questions in this room about why it should be like this – why one should treat the king crab differently than we do other fish. The factory trawler I was in the city has got a lot of king crabs in the jet. He's risking a fine for getting those crabs. He doesn't have a quota on them. That's completely the opposite of what we have for ordinary fish -- shives, and cod. If you don't have a quota on it, you can't land it, because this is going to be registered, and you're going to find out where that fish is taken, and you should know how much is taken. Why in the world? We don't have the slightest idea -- a lot of royal crabs are dumped, destroyed, and it's not researched at all. Then we could have a landing order, even if you don't have a quota, registered it, and it would be free research. Today, a lot of money is spent on one scientist to research into having a research quota, and it's only the one that's registered. What is illegally caught is not being registered, and we know nothing about that. It's not supposed to be like that, is it? But you must be aware when you decide in this Chamber that it should be that way. When I asked the Council of State about how many scientists are researching royal crabs, he replied that there is only one scientist who is researching royal crabs. So we don't have the slightest idea what this means. And then he says from this pulpit that we're going to limit the spread of that animal. Yes, we should have done it a long time ago, and it should be free fishing. I'm not saying we're going to eradicate the king crab, I'm not saying that, but we're going to have a constraint on how far south it's going to spread. Today, nothing stops it. It can spread all the way south here to the Oslofjorden, to Spikersuppa if necessary. It's scratching ashore. If the majority in this room had taken me by notem in 1998, we would have set a limit then, and then we would have got free fishing south and west and north up to the border. But today it's spreading in the wild, and we don't have the least idea of where the king crab is, and how widespread it is, because we only have one scientist who's researching it. And it's too wrong. I am so glad that there are other parties who have understood the problem and taken it up, so that we can debate it. Now, fisheries policy is not the theme most involved in this Chamber, but I am pleased that two parties have addressed that issue, so that we can finally debate it. Because the way it is with the king crab, it can't go on. It's a pest, but it's also an economic animal, which gives a great deal of counting to those who can use it. Allow all those in Finnmark who have fishing numbers on their boats to fish king crabs. Let it be free fishing beyond the south and south-west boundary. Let it be free fishing across a northern border. And then they don't have to be fined to take the king crab on board. Today, a fine is paid if you take it aboard and if you take it ashore. It's completely wild, and I don't think it's gone up for people in this room, and I don't think it's gone up for the council either, I don't think it's gone up for the department, that we're managing the royal crab in a completely different way than we are managing other fish. Then I have to ask again: why should it be like this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1602	Does the Council of State want the word for a line, or was it three-minute posts?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1605	No, President, it wasn't a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1611	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1614	I think this has developed into a strange debate. When a person listens to his or her speakers, a few impressions may be that the proposal today is totally rejected, and that the majority do not see the problem mentioned in the proposal. In my view, there is an entirely wrong way of interpreting the plurality, and in my view, SV is now getting a full impact on what is the intention of the proposal. Today, from the majority of the population, and for the first time in this room, there is a new hold on how to manage this species. The size now sets a new goal for the management of the king crab, and it obviously has meaning for future withdrawals, for research and other ways of dealing with this problem. When we in the Labour Party today have come to a different conclusion than SV has, it is not because we have different intentions, but because we have asked ourselves the question of what it is that works best to achieve the objectives that SV has with its proposal. For us, it has been a special decision that we are talking about a common stock with Russia. Of course, this has a big impact on how we handle this issue. We want to stop spreading. It is not through simple decisions here in the Chamber, but through cooperation with Russia we can achieve this objective. The Labour Party could, of course, have joined the minority in this matter, but we believe that by being part of the majority we have actually influenced this matter in the direction of what our SV wants. If SV had chosen to do the same, the setting might be even tighter, and not least it would have given a much clearer signal to those negotiating with Russia in this matter. In my view, SV gives an incorrect picture of what the majority of them are for today. In this way they also, in my view, requested to weaken the impact that SV has received today. In my view, SV should rather be with and collected today and thus also give a clear statement as to what the plurality in this room means, that we should have a much more restrictive attitude to how we handle the royal crab in the future than we have had up to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1627	When I asked for the word, it was of course to make an article. It would be new practice if the Council of State asked for a reply to a magnification representative. I felt a strong need to clarify a relationship that several speakers have pointed out, namely that there should only be one scientist who was researching royal crabs. I remember what I said in my post, that the Marine Research Institute has been given the task of launching a larger programme for research and monitoring of crabs, and that we are going to prioritise such research over the years to come. Together with Russia, we have launched a three-year joint research project focusing on the effects of the royal crab on the existing Barents Sea ecosystem. It is clear that then it becomes misleading when you try to present it as if there is one scientist, and when on that basis you can reject the recommendations of the researchers. It is such that the Marine Research Institute in Bergen – and it is internationally recognised as the world's foremost – is involved in it. Fishing research in Tromsø is involved in it. The fishing school in Tromsø is involved in it. There must then be a basis for claiming that there is a much wider research environment in Norway in royal crabs than a single researcher. But the scientist to whom it is referred is also one of the foremost in the world. In addition, it's not that you have no knowledge of the effects of the royal crab in those areas where it's not an introduced species, but where it has its natural spread.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1636	The President would point out that the reason why the President misinterpreted the body language of the Council of State was that the temperature under the intervention of the representative Bastisen was so high that for a moment the President suspected the Council of State to let nature go over the greed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1639	I have absolutely no need to prolong the debate, but the contribution from the committee leader nevertheless created a need to clarify some aspects. It is quite obvious that it is the proposal of the representatives of the SV that has led to the large-scale majority actually moving some steps in the right direction. I also said that in my post. The majority of the population shall have a favourable opinion that there are actually some proposals for action on the table. It does not, however, prevent us from disagreeing with the approach of the king crab. The most important thing about our proposal is the management objective and not the measures. I understand that the Labour Party has an explanation need in this matter, among other things. According to the fact that some large-scale representatives have raised this issue in the context of publishing to the media and in relation to the formulation of compliance with the obligations in particular. Biodiversity Convention. So I don't have a problem understanding that. But I can't understand that the history of the handling of this matter today is supposed to be that SV has lost, because we haven't decided. We've driven the Storting quite a number of important steps in the right direction. We're not in goal at all, and we still disagree on the main questions: how do we approach the king crab, and how do we meet our international obligations?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-25.ana.ud1136e1648	Then everyone has been told their case no. 3, and the relationship of the Storting with the royal crab must be interruptible in this round. [[See page 2357]]
