ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e24	The President would like to welcome the representatives to a hopefully active and objective harvest. Representatives André Kvakkestad, Karin Andersen, Olav Akselsen, Silja Ekeland Bjørkly, Haakon Blankenborg, Thore A. Nistad, Finn Martin Vallersnes, Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt, Synnøve Konglevoll, Per Erik Monsen and Martin Engeset, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The representative, André Kvakkestad, has requested leave on 8 and 9 October in order to take part in the elections of the Council of Europe at the elections in Georgia. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Harald Espelund, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e83	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it to be adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e88	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e93	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e101	The representative of Marit Arnstad will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e104	On behalf of the representative Åslaug Haga and myself, I will be allowed to put forward proposals to set up an independent district commissioner to work on coordinating and developing efforts towards the districts. And on behalf of the representative Åslaug Haga and myself, I will be allowed to propose that a local democratic Idea Committee be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e112	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e124	After consulting the group leaders, the president will propose that the debate on the throne be organised as follows: The debate will be opened with an intervention by the Prime Minister of up to 20 minutes. Then each of the opposition lots receives an article of up to 10 minutes. Following these insertions, a row of up to five rows is allowed. Five Councils of State shall be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes, followed by a row of up to three lines. In addition, 46 posts of up to 5 minutes follow the groups as follows: the Working Party 12 posts, the Right 11 posts, the Advance Party 7 posts, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 6 posts each, the Centre Party 3 posts and the Left 1 posts. In addition, the representative Simonsen shall be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. After two of the five-minute submissions from each group, a row of up to three rows is made available. Finally, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the posts allocated, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e141	A few weeks ago, in our neighbouring country, we received a tragic reminder of how vulnerable the open democratic society can be. As the President-in-Office stressed in his speech at the opening of the Storting: democracy needs people elected to be out among those they represent. Our neighboring country was facing an important political choice when this happened. Instead of being paralysed by violence, the open society in its defense responded with strong election participation in the referendum a few days later. It was good to see, and it gave hope. In order for democracy to be strong, voters must use the right to vote. At home at the time of the fall, the vote was 58.8 p.m. at the municipal elections and 55,1 at the county elections. That's the worst show since the war. Evolution is alarming. A central value in our society is democracy – the rule of the people. Low turnout may have several reasons. Many suggest that many have lost faith that they have some real influence, because local politicians have little leeway within given budgetary frameworks and state legislation. I would therefore like to welcome a debate in which various proposals are being put in place to reverse this negative trend. We need a renewal of local political commitment. And if we are to strengthen participation in local elections and increase the influence of individual citizens, local policy action needs to be increased. That's exactly what the government wants. We made proposals as part of a local policy freedom reform in the municipal proposition in spring. We proposed the liquidation of a number of earmarked grants and the inclusion of funds in free transfers. We proposed simplification and reduction of legislation in relation to the municipal sector and better coordination of local authority supervision. We want more decisions to be taken as closely as possible where people live. The majority followed the government just a little bit along the way in this reform work. But I am convinced that government and big business must continue to work on these questions. It's nothing less than the future of our local democracy. The cooperation management policy is characterised by value anchoring and renewal. Our values are the Christian and humanist cultural heritage, the rule of law and democracy. We will continue this legacy in a new era. It requires new instruments — a renewal of policy. A fundamental value is human dignity, respect for the inviolable value of the individual human being. We will renew respect for human dignity. Modern biotechnology and genetic engineering provide great opportunities for medical progress, but it also poses a risk of infringing life and human dignity. The government has therefore promoted legislative proposals that are gnawing important principles for this purpose: to build a better protection of life and human dignity, built on the principle of being a leader. We've delivered. Now it's up to Stortingen to follow up. Human dignity is violated by the widespread bullying that takes place, among other things. in children and adolescents. Many thousands of school students grunt for every school day, for fear of physical or mental bullying. There is only one word for our attitude to this: unacceptable. For me, this is a value question, it's about human dignity and equivalency. In the last year, the government and the Municipal Councils, the Children's Ombudsman, teachers' organisations and parents' organisations have worked together on an action against bullying. All the partners have taken action. After a year we see that this work is useful. In schools that have worked systematically against bullying, half of the problem is reported. Many children have a new and better everyday life. We will fight further from the principle of zero tolerance to bullying, both in kindergarten and in school. We know it's useful. All violence is a violation of human dignity. The crime of violence shows terrifying numbers. That is why the Cooperation Government is renewing its efforts to combat violence. We will intensify work against trafficking in human beings and protect and help women and children who are victims of this. The government will fight domestic violence. We aim to ensure that threatened women across the country are offered mobile violence alarms during the year. The punishments include: the reinforcement of repeat crime, with a particular view to winning, violence and sexual crimes. We must defend security and human dignity. The family is a central value as the basic unit of society. Its main task is to provide children with a safe upbringing. The children are totally dependent on being introduced norms and values from the family community. This is where expectations for society are formed. This is the first basis for the individual’s own value foundation. The family is also important to us adults as a framework for proximity, love and care. But the family is under pressure today. We need to use new tools to strengthen its position. A modern family policy must address the consequences of gender equality. It must take account of the growing desire for active participation in professional life in larger parts of its life span. The government will not pursue a policy where all families and children are to be integrated into an A4 pattern. We want freedom of choice. That is why we are building more and cheaper kindergartens. Therefore, it is so important to keep the cash support. The co-operation administration will pursue a family policy that takes care of the children first. The government believes marriage is the best framework for child growth. At the same time, policies must take account of the fact that many choose other life-style solutions. Strengthening long-term living is a Community challenge and not just a private matter. In this context, it is important that women and men are given the opportunity to participate in the same line in working and family life. Then fathers must have rights that strengthen their role in child care. That's why we want fathers to get birth grants on their own basis under the father's quota, and that everyone is entitled to four weeks' paper commission on their own basis. Having a job is a fundamental value. Work nobles man. Unemployment is destructive to the self-respect of many people and a waste of society's resources. We have an excessive unemployment rate in Norway today. That is why we are renewing the fight against unemployment. This is a major concern of the Cooperation Government. The main contribution to increasing the number of people in work will be continued responsible fiscal policies and long-term work to secure and create new jobs. This requires good framework conditions for business. Now it's not to ruin the positive development we've laid the foundation for in the case of reduced taxes and taxes, lower interest rates and the exchange rate and a more moderate wage trend. Labour market measures are important to enable the unemployed who need it to be activated and qualified for job vacancies. In the autumn, between 12 000 and 13 000 unemployed are participating in actions each month. The government has been committed to offering targeted job-seeker training in so-called job clubs. The government has strengthened Aetat more than it has been in ten years. Innovation and innovation are essential to safeguard employment. New jobs need to be created to replace lost old ones. The government will present a comprehensive plan for increasing innovation and will continue to step up research efforts. The fight against poverty and the environment goes right to the heart of our anchoring of values. It's about human dignity, close love, and trustworthiness. The UN’s Millennium Goals commit the world’s nations to a new global partnership to address poverty problems. We're going to do our part, through trade, debt and aid. The government wants Norway to be an environmental policy priority country. An overall objective is to ensure an economic, social and ecologically sustainable development. In the national budget, we will present our Action Plan for such a development, National Agenda 21. The action plan has a global perspective, focusing on international cooperation and combating poverty. We will work nationally and internationally for a positive trend in climate, ozone layer and air pollution. We want to ensure biodiversity and cultural memories, and we want to reduce the use of hazardous chemicals. It's important to closely follow up the goals we set. We want an ongoing reporting, including: in the national budget, and we want new and better ways to measure developments. International terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction are the most serious security threats facing the international community today. The government will continue to place great emphasis on the role of the United Nations in this and other international issues. The fight against terrorism must continue with a broad range of instruments in close cooperation with other countries. This was the background to the widely visited terrorist conference in New York on 22 September, to which we from Norway took the initiative. It is a contribution to a broader understanding of the threat of terrorism, and we are now working on the follow-up to the conference. We will continue to work for a stable and peaceful Iraq and want the United Nations to play a more prominent role in that country. The organisation must be given resources to perform the tasks assigned to it. The situation in the Middle East is now more gloomy than for a long time. When a new Palestinian Prime Minister and government on a more lasting basis are likely to be in place soon, new peace initiatives are needed. This responsibility rests primarily on the parties and the so-called Quartet. The fight for a better welfare society shall continue. The development of kindergartens and quality reforms in education and care for the elderly is thus central. The government is following up the Stockholm Children's Court settlement. This involves large financial outlays, with the aim of expanding 12,000 new kindergartens next year and getting prices down to NOK 2 750, which is NOK 2 500 adjusted for prices from 2002, which we agreed to. The government wants to renew the school. First of all, we are going to implement quality reforms in higher education. In primary school, we're going to increase quality based on the quality committee settings. There seems to be broad agreement on longer school days for the youngest students, more education in Norwegian, math and English and more physical activity in school. In the area of care for the elderly, we will now focus more on quality and content. In the election campaign that we've put behind us, it's like the mistakes and shortcomings of our welfare society that were brought forward. Yes, there are still many unresolved tasks. But sometimes it's important to see the challenges in a larger perspective. Even now I have been elected to Stortinget for 30 years, and I have reflected a little over a part of what has happened over these years. In 1973, Norway stood at the entrance to the oil age. The production value of oil and gas was NOK 250 million; now it's about NOK 250 billion. Environmental awareness had just taken its place in the political debate at that time. For example, it was not until 1972. The Ministry of the Environment has been established. One of the most striking developments is the strong commitment to health and care for the elderly. The number of persons employed in this sector has doubled and increased by many, many tens of thousands. Since the adoption of the action plan for the care of the elderly as late as 1997, more than DKK 30 billion have been invested in improved capacity and service provision. In many contexts it is expressed that the public sector is almost depleted, but the fact is that the total expenditure on the government budget has increased from 33 p.m. of our total value creation in 1973 to over 48 pst. Now. Thus, the public interest has increased significantly. Never before have Norwegian politicians had so much resources to distribute. In 1973, total public consumption was about NOK 20 billion, today it is over NOK 330 billion. There has been a strong growth in higher education. 30 years ago, there were more than 60,000 students, today there are almost 200,000. 30 years ago there were kindergartens for 25 000 children, now there's almost 200,000 available. We have also had a formidable increase in private sector wealth. In 30 years the purchasing power of employees has increased by more than 50 pst. At the same time, employment has increased and government transfers in the form of social security and other social benefits to households have shown strong growth. Great progress has been made. But we're not on target. We still have groups that fall outside the welfare community. We also have trends that go in the wrong direction, for example. crime and drug problems. The co-operation administration is taking these challenges seriously. We're about to crash for two years. The results are starting to show: the interest rate is down by 4.5 percentage points. The exchange rate has improved. Taxes and charges have been reduced. The optimism of business is on its way back. We have stepped up the appropriations for psychiatry and care for the elderly. Kindergartens are getting cheaper. Cash support has increased. The effort towards the world's poor is record-breaking. We have adopted a separate action plan on poverty in Norway. School-Norway has been given greater local freedom. Still, we have unsolved tasks. The Co-operation Board will continue to work for better well-being. The parliamentary situation today is exactly the same as when the Storting broke up before the summer. The co-operation administration was the natural expression of the parliamentary situation that arose after the 2001 elections. A majority government would have its clear advantages. I myself have been in the government enough to know a lot about it. But cooperation in government requires considerable proximity to political positions and positions of the participating parties. Today there is no such natural majority constellation. It places a great responsibility on both government and big business. That responsibility must rest on the Storting also in the treatment of the State budget and in other matters in the next session. In the recording of this harvest session, we have seen that the largest opposition parties have referred to each other as potential budgetary partners with the Government. But I'm surprised that they don't look at their own possibilities of influence in the budget either. They have also stated that they do not believe in a government shift during the harvest, but at the same time they shift responsibility to each other for not doing so. Nothing is profited from anything that can easily be seen as a game. All must be conscious of their responsibilities, both for the budget and for the parliamentary situation. The government is prepared to cooperate with the opposition parties, but the assumption is that political developments are moving in the right direction. Society is changing. The political challenges are changing. Yesterday's solutions do not always fit tomorrow's challenges. We have to think new. But innovation without goals and meaning becomes confusion. We need to know what we want and where we want. Therefore, it is essential to have clear guides in solid values, as we have in our Christian and humanistic cultural heritage. This is why the cooperation administration’s policy is based on value anchoring and renewal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e215	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e218	I am pleased that the Prime Minister mentioned unemployment in his statement. And it's true that there are many reasons for the high unemployment rate that we now experience in Norway. But one reason for the high unemployment rate is that the government for a long time underestimated the danger of increasing unemployment. Those who warned against increasing unemployment were accused of blackmailing, and the government's actions were too late and too weak. Now there's a danger that the government might underestimate the danger that the time off will snap to a high level. We have a lot of experience that even if the economy starts to go better, even though the business world is starting to become an optimist, the unemployment becomes easily fixed, remains at a high level, even though the economy and the economy are turning upside down. That is why I am concerned about whether the Prime Minister understands the importance of targeted measures to provide the unemployed with training, qualification, so that they can get to work more easily. There is a low level of labour market policy now compared to what we had the last time there was high unemployment. Then massive measures were put in place to ensure that the unemployed returned to work when the economy turned around, and we succeeded in that policy. The level of intervention is now at a historically low level, increasing the risk of high levels of unemployment and again underestimating the problems in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e227	No, the government has not underestimated the danger of rising unemployment, so the first cooperation government did, was actually adjusting Stoltenberg's own unemployment forecasts in his budget. It showed that we were aware of what could happen. For this reason, the Government has also pursued a policy from day one with a view to getting as low a time off as possible. I agree with the representative of Stoltenberg that there is a danger that the time off will break down. That is why we are putting in place measures to push it down again, with a fiscal policy, with income policy cooperation, with an innovation policy, with tax relief, which will all contribute to this. In the case of action sites, the actual situation is now that of approx. 150000 people will be in action places during the year. We have strengthened Aetat, and we are reorganizing the work to ensure that people do not go for a long time on action, but through, among other things. job club events come out faster. It is more important than a high number of response sites, where people can go too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e234	One of the problems facing Norwegian industry, and in particular industry, is some peculiar environmental rules, which are a disadvantage to competitors in other countries. With increasing unemployment, is it still the government's view that the environment should be given priority before and at the expense of several thousand industrial jobs – i.e., in the choice between being world champion in the environment or being good at employment, does the government choose the environment and allow people to go free? That's my first question. Then it's true, as the Prime Minister says, that a majority government might be desirable. Discussions have not even been attempted to bring it about after the last elections. Is it still the Government's position that it should have exactly the same relationship with the three opposition parties and with which party one forms a majority, the Socialist Left Party, the Labour Party or the Advance Party, or will the Government choose the non-socialist side and treat the socialist parties as the real opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e241	It is true that we have some strict environmental rules in Norway that one does not have in all other countries, but it is precisely because Norway has to be an environmental policy precursor. I do not think it conflicts with jobs and employment. On the contrary, in the environmental sector there are many opportunities to create new jobs, including: as regards the development of alternative energy. If we were to let employment policy take place at the expense of our environmental responsibility, it would be a huge short-term policy, not sustainable at all. We want sustainable development. As for the relationship with the opposition parties, we have the special relationship with the Progress Party that it was their contribution that made us have the Cooperation Government. We've recognized that. That is why we work systematically, among other things. to follow up on the answers to 54 questions that we received from the Progress Party in the formation of the government. But we've also said that we want the freedom to cooperate with other parties where it's natural. It's a little strange to hear the representative Hagen this day – he's going to test how friendly we are, after he's been holding on and squeezing us out for weeks. He has also indicated that he himself can contribute to a parliamentary situation that will provide a socialist government. So I think it might be, sir. The garden that comes up in such a choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e248	I have noticed many times when the Prime Minister talks about what kind of great victories this government has managed to achieve, that he almost takes a bit of a bet and says: Yes, and then we've got extensive tax havens – and then he continues talking about elderly care and poor children. I think that's quite strange, because this government has, more than any other government ever before, implemented taxes – when it's done, if it's finished – of over 30 billion kroner. One would think that there was really one thing that the Prime Minister was standing on fire and beating himself on the chest of the Stortinge pulpit and boasting well and for a long time. In fact, I believe that poor children and elderly care are closer to Bondevik’s heart. Then I want to ask the Prime Minister, when he is going to settle the status after these years of cooperation with the Right and Right have run away with the big money, while the poor children have had the small ones – yes, it is actually so that the differences in Norway are increasing under this government: is it really so that this is a development closer to the Christian People's Party's values than what was the alternative, namely to combat differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e255	I guess I haven't talked about either taxes and taxes or other things that this government has achieved. But I am fully aware and have no problem defending that we have given tax reliefs, including tax relief. because they have all materially gone to Norwegian enterprises and strengthened Norwegian jobs. Without them, employment and the unemployment situation would probably have been much more difficult. The fight against unemployment is a major issue for this government, and we have set up fiscal policy on the basis that we will win it. I'm not ashamed of that at all. It's not the right who ran away with the big money. If you see what we've really spent money on in recent years, you'll see that it's to a large extent – and it's all three parties behind – welfare tasks, and it's the fight against poverty, not least in the developing countries where it's the biggest. We almost never hear EN talk about development assistance any more. Where has it become of SV's commitment to the poor in the world – since she is calling for mine in other areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e262	The Prime Minister is concerned about the welfare issue. The solutions to the welfare problem in Norway have almost always occurred in the crossroads between the centre parties, the Workers' Party and SV – the Christian People's Party included. During the election campaign, the Prime Minister stated that next year, the municipal economy will have the greatest promise ever made. Well-being will be solved locally. With a common concern about the low turnout, I think it is extremely important for the parties and the Stortinget to discuss the question of trust in the policy we are putting forward. It is necessary to have an honest dialogue with the voters. Then I have two questions for the Prime Minister. One is whether he sees any need to nuance the image he has created in the election campaign on municipal economy in relation to the day-to-day Norwegian municipalities now going to meet in 2004. The second question is whether the local freedom of action that this government is talking about in relation to the municipalities should also apply to the question of mergers of municipalities and whether they should be forced into a situation where they have to be collided with infrastructure?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e272	In the case of the local economy, I have referred to the municipality proposal that was submitted to Stortinget in ours and that announced what will come in transfers to next year. It's the only area where one shows up shortly before the actual state budget is presented. The government is going to stay within the framework that we presented there. I don't think I've ever said that's the greatest lift ever. I remember, among other things: a promise that the central government had with and negotiated with the Workers' Party, where we raised the transfers by NOK 5 billion. But I've said it's the biggest promise in years, and I'm sure it is. With regard to merger issues in the municipal sector, the cooperation parties have said that it should be done on a voluntary basis and not by coercion. It is still our position, but we record with a certain interest that there are now discussions between some municipalities in some of our counties about such voluntary mergers in order to get more money for well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e279	Sometimes when you hear the Prime Minister speak, you can get the impression that he is running a central government that can alternately draw support from the one side and from the other side of the policy. He doesn't, he runs a Right-dominated government. It was in itself so affordable that he acknowledged that the government has a special relationship with the Advance Party, as the detainee of the Government. But it did more than that. The Government and the Advance Party have a common political basis. A government statement has been voted on here in this Chamber and that statement is based on the Sem Declaration and more than 50 written replies from the Government to the Progress Party. It is this common political platform that is used, among other things. goes into extra taxes for 12 billion dollars over the next two years, which is the political basis of the Government, and which makes it not a hip-hop thing to work with on the left or on the right. There is a common political basis on the right of the Grand Duchy, which requires cooperation on the right to implement it. Now there is sometimes some uncertainty about whether the Prime Minister is actually at the political base. Stands, for example. The Prime Minister continues to promise 12 billion DKK of lower taxes in the next two years?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e286	As far as the latter is concerned, the future budgets will provide answers to the extent to which we can achieve our objectives in the various areas outlined in the Sem Declaration. We haven't canceled any of the targets. There are more areas than just taxes, where we have come relatively far after two years, but where both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister have said that there will have to be more modesty next year. The government won't be right-dominated the several times Stoltenberg claims it. This is a cooperative government, and I refer everyone to reading the political accounts for this government after two years, which I myself presented at a press conference just before the summer. It also shows a great deal of pervasiveness for the policies of the Christian People's Party and the Left, even though both the opposition and others are trying to represent the image. Hagen has said that he no longer feels any special responsibility for this government, after what happened to the revised national budget. We'd like to see a deal with the Progress Party. If not, will Stoltenberg really waive the possibility of influence, as the Workers' Party did for two years in the previous period?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e295	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e298	I can start by answering the question that Bondevik now asked in his closing reply: No, of course the Labour Party will not! The working party will never depreciate or depreciate its ability to influence and influence the policy and to make the values we believe in effective. But what the Workers' Party cannot participate in is to implement the Sem Declaration, implement the political basis on which this Government is based, as set out in the Sem Declaration, and as set out in the written exchanges of letters between the Government and the Advance Party, because the whole point of the Sem Declaration, the whole point of the political project that this Government stands for, is to be an alternative to the Labour Party's policy. You had to vote on a prime minister, you had to experience'morn'a Jens', and you had to have an alternative course, enough was enough. That was the basis of this government. They went together and got a new Prime Minister, who got Morn’a Jens, and they got a new political basis to make sure that enough was enough of this bad working party policy. Of course, we want to cooperate. Of course, we want to join in fighting for our political issues. But one cannot demand that we be involved in implementing the political basis on which this government is based, the Sem Declaration and the written answers to the Progress Party, which I expect will continue to apply, if the Government is to keep its word. Then you ask some of the Workers' Party that the Workers' Party can never be in, namely that the Workers' Party should be the alternative to itself. This government is the alternative to the Workers' Party. Then we can't help implementing this government's policy. For example, it is absolutely impossible for us to have a policy where people with open eyes choose to give lower taxes, mostly to those who have the most from before, and it is at the expense of school, care for the elderly or the fight against unemployment. I believe that it is actually a choice Christian People's Party has made. That choice was made at the beginning of this period, that of choosing to cooperate with the Right and to base a government on the support of the Progress Party on a written, common political basis. I'm sorry about that choice. I would like to see a Christian People's Party be able to choose differently, but that's a choice I respect. And that is quite right: the parliamentary situation is exactly the same now as before the municipal elections. The only thing that can change the parliamentary situation is that the Christian People's Party chooses differently, chooses to cooperate with the Labour Party, with the Left, not with the Right and the Advance Party. Then we have a new situation. I should have liked to have seen that the Christian People's Party chose differently, but I take note that so far you have not wanted it. The working party is in opposition. I believe that an important task in a parliamentary democracy is to have clear alternatives. I believe that an important contribution to increasing electoral participation, a contribution to halting the development of increasingly fewer people using voting rights, is that voters have clear alternatives to deal with – a comprehensive policy that can be implemented over several years, making some difficult choices, some unpopular things, doing some good, popular things, and then standing for the whole coherent policy over several years. If we are to achieve this, parties must cooperate more lastingly and more obligatingly than they have so far done in the Norwegian big business. That is what the Workers' Party is calling for. We recognize that we are in opposition to today's mass, as it is compounded. We need to be a clear and constructive opposition, but we should just as well be in opposition, because an important task in a parliamentary democracy is that voters have alternatives to deal with. We must be an alternative to the policy of the Government, based on the Sem Declaration and the political promises that have been made. If we are to be an alternative, we must also present our policies. We're going to present our policies in our documents during the fall, and we're going, as before, to put the emphasis on the fight against increasing unemployment. We will propose comprehensive measures to prevent unemployability from breaking down. We're going to follow up on what we've said about a better school, longer school day, not least in high school. We're going to pay attention to choosing good care for the elderly rather than tax havens, to refurbish the municipalities and social justice rather than to give more to those who already have the most. All this will be followed up by the Workers' Party in our various policy proposals beyond the fall. There is a shared responsibility between the government parties and the Progress Party that we now have such a messy and unclear parliamentary situation as we have. On the one hand, it is the responsibility of the Progress Party, because they are trying to run from the responsibility of the party when the imprisoned government, they voted in favour of the political basis and have voted in favour of two state budgets, and the next moment is in opposition to the government they have established and the state budgets they have voted for. It is also the responsibility of the Government, because the Government does not acknowledge that it is dependent on the Progress Party, that it is formed by cooperation with the Progress Party, and that it actually has a common political basis with the Progress Party. I understand that sometimes one can be confused in the Progress Party, when one has a common political basis in the vote we had here in the Grand Duchy on the Government Declaration, and the written basis the Government has made with the Advance Party, that several governments often talk as if there are no differences between the different parties in the Grand Duchy, and that there is no difference between working with one or the other. In fact, there is a much stronger commitment to the Progress Party than to the other parties, and it would be an advantage for the cleanliness of the Government to a greater extent acknowledge it. So I regret that choice, because I believe that the Christian People's Party could achieve more by cooperating in a different direction for many of the values of the Christian People's Party, such as. Community solutions, welfare solutions and the choice of public care and welfare solutions, rather than lower taxes. It's nothing new that the Progress Party contributes to creating a crisis mood, conducting political poker games and helping to raise awareness of all the game going on in the Stortinget. The new thing is that the government parties are so much involved in contributing to creating a crisis mood. We saw it in the spring, when they talked about crisis a long time before Easter, and we saw it in the autumn, where we talked about crisis, and crisis in the state budget, even before the state budget was presented. I think we'll all be well served by now calming the situation down a little bit, waiting for the state budget and then starting to deal with it and dealing with the political realities, instead of creating a crisis mood for weeks and months before the state budget itself comes to final treatment here in the Grand Duchy. The working party is very concerned that the government underestimates how demanding it is to prevent unemployment from breaking down. It is correct for the Government to adjust the estimates for unemployment in the autumn of 2001. However, in return, they reduced efforts to combat unemployment by cutting research and development and start-ups, among others. through the SND, cutting district policy and cutting labour market policy. After all, it was just a result of the downsizing of work to prevent increasing unemployment, the increase in unemployment beyond 2002 and so far in 2003. Our heartfelt appeal to the Government now is that they do not repeat the error by underestimating the problems in the labour market, such as the following: The prime minister said that there were no signs of dramatic deterioration in the labour market situation, or several government councils did when they said that we black-painted when we warned about the increase in unemployment – and did not take the necessary steps to get the unemployed to work, among other things. by providing them with qualification and training. Then, to my delight, I have noticed that the Prime Minister has an open position on the European issues. I think that is positive and an expression of a curious, open attitude that is important to have on European issues, especially in a world and in a Europe that is constantly changing. I experienced it myself a few days ago when I saw the movie "Good bye, Lenin!" It's a movie that I strongly recommend. It is about Berlin, it is about 'free German youth', and it is about how the old Communist regimes in Eastern Europe were stunned. It's a funny movie. But first of all, it's a good film, which reminds us that it's not long since Eastern Europe was very different, was governed by communist regimes, had a culture and manner of being, and was a society that was totally alien to us. And so it's quite a few years ago. It is this Europe that is now united, where the Cold War has ended, the Berlin Wall has fallen, and is now being brought together and working together through the European Union and the European Community. When the EU is enlarged from 15 to 25 countries, and when Eastern and Western Europe join together, it is clear that it also provides a basis for at least a new debate and a new reflection of Norway's relationship with Europe. I am pleased that the Prime Minister has invited me to do so, and the Labour Party is happy to take part in that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e324	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e327	When I heard the post from the representative Jens Stoltenberg, I actually wondered if the Workers' Party has any alternative policies. Let me just say that during the election campaign and beyond the fall, the Workers' Party has in a way used words – I think at least – linked to turning the clock back and finding old solutions. Away is the repentant sinner Jens Stoltenberg, who traveled around as Prime Minister and told him that he had basically regretted having opposed private kindergartens, that he had been against extended opening hours, and that he had been against close radio concessions. Away it is. Now it's SV light you see. You see a party that says no to modernisation, no to freedom of choice and no to use everything – no to most of all. It provokes me in one area. Can the representative of Stoltenberg tell me why older people in this country should have poorer service on their services only because there should be public services? It provokes me enormously that my mother will have to accept a worse service offer because Jens Stoltenberg on death and life will have this to be public. For me and for the right, it's breaking no matter who's doing the service, only the one who's receiving the service is satisfied. Why does Stoltenberg think the opposite?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e336	The Labour Party did more to renew the public sector and the public welfare solutions in the 17 months we spent on government responsibility than this government has done in two years. We presented a comprehensive renewal of our hospital system, of our defenses and of the college, with the quality reform. We started the quality-building of primary school, police reform and many other major reforms. With regard to the renewal of the public sector, this government makes one serious mistake, and that is that it sets out similarities between renewal and privatisation. Of course, no one is against the idea that there should be a private person in the care of the elderly, and I also thought the representative Oddvard Nilsen was involved in the election campaign. What it's about is not whether it's the Church's City Mission, the Salvation Army or other sanitary organizations that run the care of the elderly. What it's all about is that we, like for example. Prime Minister Bondevik, warns against going too far in the commercialisation of basic welfare services, whether we are talking about school or care for the elderly. So there I think the Right and Christian People's Party should talk, instead of raving down to the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e343	I noticed Jens Stoltenberg's views on combating unemployment, and I am pleased that the Labour Party here too will make it an important matter. I would like to ask you two specific questions. Does it mean that Jens Stoltenberg and the Workers' Party will eventually also join a demand from the Progress Party for a much more active industrial policy, not just a passive industrial policy where everything is to be resolved through the exchange rate and interest rate, but a much more active industrial policy, based on the fact that, through a national strategy, some clusters are to be selected, as has been done in our neighbouring countries, and ensure that they have an internationally competitive framework for activities in Norway? Does he agree that, in such a context, we must also be able to create opportunities for some of our capital strength through the petroleum fund to be used for investment in Norwegian jobs and not just foreign jobs? And is the Labour Party ever more in agreement that environmental policies and emission requirements should be harmonised with the EU, Japan, Australia and America?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e354	The Labour Party is in favour of an active industrial policy, and we have been so all along. The problem with the Progress Party is that they're sometimes, and then they're opposite the other time. For example, the main instrument of active industrial policy is the State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund. That's where we grant grants to new businesses, that's where we give research and development contracts, that's where we contribute to public incentives for start-ups, to new businesses in Norway. Every year, the Progress Party has been against SND. It's not that many years since they called it the closest corruption-like scheme when we were running that type of business. Now they've turned the trill around. The working party is that the state spends money on investing in Norwegian business. This is why we are in favour of strong state ownership of companies such as Hydro, Telenor and Statkraft – among others. through SND. The party of progress has been against this for many years. They have been against state ownership and have been to sell out. Now they've turned the trill around. I'm happy as long as they take that position, it's at least better than the previous one. But it is difficult to deal with the industrial policy of the Progress Party, because it changes so often. So trust the Working Party – the original is best!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e359	Jens Stoltenberg boasts of Kjell Magne Bondevik's open and searching attitude towards the EU. That's how yes-people talk when former no-people start moving towards a yes-position. But that's not how yes-people act themselves. In order to have an open and searching attitude towards the EU, it is far from the relationship of Stoltenberg with the EU. He's a contemplative EU trailer. Now I wonder what is most urgent for Jens Stoltenberg, especially after the result of the Swedish referendum on the euro. It shows systematic resistance and lack of popular anchoring of the entire Union project. There is a massive majority against women, among young people and among those who have the worst income. It's a majority for only in Stockholm and Skåne. If the Labour Party chooses to rush the EU case, there will be great chances of losing, and there will be great opportunities to destroy what Jens Stoltenberg himself described in his speech, namely the desire for a fixed majority structure after the next elections, which can work together systematically. What is most important for Jens Stoltenberg?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e367	Now Kristin Halvorsen is very excited about the answer, to an exchange. Then I would say that I do not accept the election. I will never accept that the Labour Party, if we decide and believe that the time has come to re-open the issue of EU membership, must choose between obliging cooperation, among others. by SV, and doing what we think is right in European policy. I believe that the question can be just as easily returned to SV, whether SV will make the EU case stand in the way of binding cooperation between our two parties. We haven't concluded, we think we should spend some time thinking about it now. It is right that I know what I think about the fundamental issue, namely that Norway belongs in a committed European cooperation, and as such we believe that we belong as a member of the European Union. But I have an open and curious relationship with the question of when to return to the question of Norwegian membership and a new referendum. And I have an open and curious relationship with other aspects of EU cooperation, such as security policy, or whether or not we are. shall follow up what the Prime Minister has raised, the possibility of choosing a Swedish solution: be a member of the EU, but not participate in respect of the euro.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e372	The director of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Thorbjørn Jagland, wrote in his book that there were two fundamental factors that led Norway to say no. It was the management of fishing, it was district policy, and it was agriculture. Does Stoltenberg think that any of those conditions have changed? The Christian People's Party stands firm on its no, assuming that the leaders who were there when we said no last, are still there. It is quite clear that we are going to have a debate and an open debate, and I agree with Mr Stoltenberg in relation to the peace project. But then to unemployment. It is a pleasure that both Stoltenberg and the Prime Minister have it as one of their main points. But doesn't Stoltenberg think it's going something far when he says that the main reason for unemployment is that the government isn't acting fast enough? Isn't it international cyclical? And what's most important about unemployment – is doing something about the overall framework conditions, the rate of interest, etc., or it's 50 or 100 million. kr extra to SND? I found Stoltenberg simpler. We have to stop simplifying and then stick together to bring down the solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e379	First, I would like to thank you for the issue of the European Union. I would then like to say that I see and hear nuances between the parliamentary leader Lilletun and Prime Minister Bondevik in the approach to the European Union. Bondevik's in the mind box. Lilletun is not there, as far as I understand, but had perhaps enjoyed staying there too. We have not come to your conclusion that we must assess a fisheries solution or assess an agricultural solution. What we have come to do is, first of all, that although we believe that the time is not right for us to apply for membership, we have to deal with the fact that the European Union has changed, that there will be 25 Member States, and that it may be important, among other things. to what extent the EU can be a security policy balancing force in relation to the United States, what it means for the EEA Agreement and that kind of issue. There are important questions whether we are in favour of or against EU membership. The second is that when the EU is enlarged and changed, perhaps it is time to discuss whether we are going to raise the question again, and what requirements we are going to set, for example. in relation to fish and agriculture or to monetary cooperation. I have an open and searching attitude to that. So I'm at least a little bit inside the mind box with parts of the brain mass. - Just a little one!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e388	There is no doubt that the head of the Labour Party wants a new debate on Norwegian EU membership. That debate has been given a new turn of events this weekend with Prime Minister Bondevik's rather strange statements that he will be able to say yes to EU membership provided that the EU evolves towards less integration. This is seaworthy in contrast to what is happening in the EU, so it seems to be far ahead, but, as Stoltenberg points out, it is remarkable. In Stoltenberg’s comments on Bondevik’s opinions, Stoltenberg opens up so that Norway can reserve itself against parts of the cooperation, for example. EMU. Stoltenberg knows in the heart that the EU does not practise exemptions for important sectors, but let me just ask: does the Labour Party leader want an EU membership where Norway reserves itself against participation in EMU? Is there any other part of the cooperation he wants to reserve himself against, such as fisheries policy, agricultural policy or defence policy? And does he think it's realistic to be able to get that kind of derogation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e395	The advantage of not thinking about it is that you don't have to think about new thoughts, and then you can answer all the questions very easily. But the benefit of thinking about it is also that you might sometimes develop new and better points of view. The Labour Party is not there that we have concluded on all the questions, especially not all the questions that the representative Haga now asked me. What we have said is that we want a new debate. It wants people in the Labour Party whether they are yes or no, or belong to the large group both in the Labour Party and in the Norwegian people who are curious, who are questioning and who are in doubt. Not least for the sake of those people, inside and outside the Workers' Party, I think we're going to take care of the curiosity, welcome it and then ask us a little questions. The representative, Haga, will answer what we think about whether to change the fisheries solution, or whether to look at an EU in which we participate in some cooperation, but not in all cooperation. The answers must come. But first we need to have a debate that takes care of the openness that very many people in Norway have in relation to the major changes that are now taking place in Europe. For the Center Party, it's very simple in many ways: they know exactly what they mean at any time, and so it also gets pretty boring in the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e406	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e409	It is now about two years since the sitting government came and took over power. Then it's time to look a little bit backwards, at the experiences of the two years, to be able to look forward as well. In the recent election campaign, I traveled all over the country talking a lot to people in the business world, the ones who are responsible for the creation of value. One of the main points of view was that they felt that the lack of stability, predictability and firmness was one of the growing problems. They pointed out that when the government came up with thoughts, ideas and views, it was not automatically that they would be put into effect, because the government itself has chosen not to have a firm anchor in the Stortinget. We were a key party to get the government deployed. We voted in favour of the deployment decision and the approval of the Sem declaration and the basis, which was also the 54 answers to our questions. We had hoped that development would show that the Progress Party would have influence, that we were seen as the Government's most natural partner and the closest allies. After two years, we had to find in the spring party that, after we had a budgetary settlement, the government failed to cooperate with the Progress Party when it came to implementation in the context of the revised national budget. Even the things we agreed in advance were not followed up, including: in the case of the local economy, and in the case of the development of employment, which went the wrong way and where we could take some measures. So we declared that we no longer feel the special responsibility that we felt from the beginning. That is why I think it would be useful if the Government and the Prime Minister were to think about whether this is really for the benefit of the country. We have a government that doesn't have any firm side in politics, and, as Jens Stoltenberg said, which obviously doesn't recognize its original basis and origin. It's actually one of the problems when we're going to start the state budget treatment later, that you don't have soundness and know how it's going to go. On the basis of the fact that the Prime Minister divides the parties, which I understood in his reply in the past – that is, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party would be in case, if it were to be a change of government, a socialist government – he defines himself and the sitting government as non-socialist. Then it should be natural for him, through any conversations, consultations, to try to find out the arrangements that made it possible for greater stability in the management of the country. It is the Prime Minister here who has the election, it is not the Progress Party. We've been clear all along, we've been asking for conversations to get better solutions. Every time we have been told that, out of respect for the Progress Party and the Progress Party programme, one does not want to have a single meeting to discuss these things. You say it doesn't matter until you've been willing to try. The Progress Party is promoting 16 proposals today. I'll be allowed to address those suggestions. Proposals Nos. 2 and 3 pursue a more active industrial policy. These are investigation proposals first and foremost, they are not required, as someone in the media has made it – they are generally very kind proposals. We ask for an analysis of how the Norwegian capital strength can be a priority for Norwegian business rather than a priority for foreign enterprises, and we ask for different forms of investigation and assessment of the creation of several user-driven research funds for business clusters such as the offshore cluster, the maritime industry cluster, the marine and biomarine business cluster, the process-industrial industry cluster, the ICT cluster, the energy cluster, etc., and promote a notification. It is an important topic – research is also what business is talking about, user-driven research. It would have to be better to consider setting up some specific user-driven research funds with a fixed capital, so that it was not the annual budgetary procedure in Stortinget that decided how it was going. It is then known that cutting research is one of the easiest things if you want to do something about the balance for fiscal reasons. A one-off operation by setting up user-driven research funds must be sensible, and if those research funds are also given the opportunity to invest part of the funds in Norwegian enterprises, the capital base for Norwegian enterprises is strengthened. In proposal No 5 we ask the Government to assess the benefits and disadvantages of financing the costs of the care services of the elderly. The Prime Minister spoke about local democracy, but I assume he agrees that ensuring all proper elderly care services, health services and school services is a national task. It would not be allowed if some local municipalities did not do their job – then we have to intervene, i.e. if it was national funding. Why you should have something against investigating and evaluating this, I don't understand, especially not after Oddvard Nilsen's reply, where he said that it was the freedom of choice for the users of the care of the elderly who were of crucial importance. That is precisely what our proposal says, a principle that ‘money follows the user’. But then the money has to come from somewhere, and so we want to figure out the population. It was also clear when talking to people from industry, the offshore industry and others that environmental requirements, the special environmental requirements, were one of the reasons for assessing investment in countries other than Norway. I should not be surprised if this is one of the reasons why, among other things. Hydro is the detention of investments in Høyanger and Årdal. We also ask for an overview of the changes in emissions requirements and environmental taxes to be made in favour of harmonisation with our competitors, and we ask the Government to promote a communication on the benefits and disadvantages of such possible harmonisation. There is no requirement; it is up to the Government to also submit the notification and assess there, and then the Storting will have to make its decisions. The offshore sector is important. We're in front of a period when there's a possibility of redundancies and outsourcing in the offshore sector if you don't get new search areas. The government is working on the impact assessment that is now ready and has to assess it. We will do so in advance, through proposal No. 10, give the Government the power to initiate when the Government is done with its work, instead of re-promoting the matter for the Storting and perhaps throwing away another six months. In proposal No 11 we say that in the case of the extra costs of Norwegian gas plants versus the rest of the world, the state will cover the costs resulting from the strange rules, if there are strange emission requirements that make it impossible to build. It should also be within the framework of the international regulation. We're willing to do it to get more power, so we're avoiding the crisis that we had last winter. In proposal No 14 calls for a communication on the principles and procedures for the future location of asylum recipients and the settlement of refugees in the spring 2004 spring session. The UDI has now had to obtain national housing requirements without having to be determined by the municipalities. We are getting quite a lot of responses to the plans for new asylum recipients that are now in many smaller municipalities, and then the Stortinget will get a big message about which principles and the procedure are chosen here. It should make sense in any context, and it would be a reluctance to the Progress Party if the government parties voted against a notification and discussed principles and procedures so that we have a clear system. Then we have made proposals to maintain the principle that marine resources are regarded and managed as national resources by national administrative bodies, in order to put that debate to death, which is now about, for example, one. shall say that the resources outside Finnmark shall be managed by the Finnish authorities. Then there will be demands from Rogaland County to take over the management of oil deposits outside Rogaland. We must state that this is national policy. Finally, what may be the most important thing, unemployment: the state is going with huge profits. Norwegian businesses and municipalities are struggling with the economy. In that respect, the Prime Minister should be able to offer tax reliefs as a contribution in the forthcoming discussions with the social partners on the forthcoming wage settlement to ensure a minimum cost-effective and least competitive settlement. Otherwise, I noticed that the Prime Minister pointed out that he has now been elected to the Grand Duchy for 30 years, and looked back at what has happened. That's what often happens when you start thinking about the retirement life! I, who is a little older than years old, but not in Stortinget, have also started to think about it a little bit. I don't know if the Prime Minister has thought about what to do when he's going to be a pensioner, but as everyone knows, I'm going to be a janitor! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e443	Everyone has his wishes and ambitions for the future! The representative Hagen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e450	I would like to congratulate both Hagen and Bondevik as pensioners. One of the main challenges in debating with the Progress Party is that they so often change their mind. It might in itself be nice to change your mind if you honestly and honestly admit that you've come to a new and better recognition and then say it. But the Progress Party has a tendency not to admit that they change their mind, but only change their point of view and angles back and forth. Then you sometimes get the impression that the new position might be more related to political opportunity, or that you can bother someone else about having that position until you change your position again. The view of majority governments is an example of this on the part of the Progress Party. Carl I. Hagen has said that it's hip-hop that happens, it doesn't matter who's in government, because it's the Storting that decides anyway. He said to the Official Journal of Bergen on 16 April 1997: ‘It was in the old days that it was essential who put the government power in place. For this reason, it is largely only political journalists and those who aim to become government councillors who are concerned about this.’ It doesn't matter who's in government. Well, it's possible that Hagen now takes the goal of becoming the Council of State, but it's at least completely new that the Progress Party is occupied by the majority board.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e463	I am glad that the quotation Jens Stoltenberg chose to use is from 1997. It was before we had these new types of governments that don't choose sides. In the past there have been minority governments of the Workers' Party, but then no one has been in any doubt about which parts have been the fixed anchoring in the Stortinget, and which have given back coverage for some firmer steering. The right-hand side and the front-hand side have been in opposition. There have been relatively clear relationships. After the first central government and now the co-operation administration, there have been completely new situations, where parts of the policy cooperate one way, and on the other the other the other the way and on the very central things. Moreover, I have also said several times that after a long period of minority government, the need for a fixed majority government is growing, and I also want to add, as I have done in many interviews, that perhaps after a long period of majority government, a minority government can also be reasonable again. That's not one solution. So that we change our perception. We change our perception as circumstances change, for example. on state ownership. In the old days we would sell state shares to afford to build roads, bridges, hospitals and hospitals. We don't need that right now, because if we sell state shares, we buy shares abroad instead, and that doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e472	It's not surprising that the representative Carl I. Hagen spends a lot of his time talking about the government having to choose sides. It's been Agent Hagen's tune for a long time now. I am pleased with the support the Progress Party has given to the Cooperation Government. To make sure that we have followed up everything we have promised, I have continuously, all the way, made an overview of what the Progress Party has got into its budgets, an accurate overview of all 56 questions that Carl I. Hagen delivered to us, and how we have followed them up. The problem with politics is that it's exciting, but sometimes I have to say it's a little too exciting. Every day, I experience what may be one of the problems, that you never know where the Advancement Party appears, whether they appear to the right of me or to the left of me. One day they're the new working party, the next day they're the pronounced bourgeois party. My question to Carl I. Hagen is, and I follow up what Jens Stoltenberg asked about: is it that the Progress Party believes that they would have more of their policies if there was a socialist majority in this house or a socialist government?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e482	I have to say first that I am delighted to have the papers that Oddvard Nilsen showed up from the pulpit of Stortingen, so we can study them very carefully. They will of course be sent to everyone in our group. After each autumn, of course, the Group of the Advance Party will discuss what the possible answer should be to the last question. It is the group to decide, inter alia: based on what is happening today, what is in the budget, and other things. I am pleased that Oddvard Nilsen said he was pleased with the support of the Advance Party. Yes, but it's clear that it doesn't help just saying that you're happy about it, because what do you show in practice? There was enormous disappointment when the Prime Minister in the election campaign sent out a message via the media that he warned the Christian People's Party representatives in local government and county councils against cooperating with the Progress Party on the formation of the county councils and local councils after the election. When I discussed this with the leader of the Christian People's Party, I was told exactly the same thing, that it was out of respect for us that you really wouldn't go into any special negotiations with us to get to majority solutions. So we don't feel that gratitude is particularly deep, at least not when it comes to giving us influence. Otherwise, I'm very excited about what two questions come in addition to the 54 I'm familiar with, because Oddvard Nilsen said there were 56 questions. So I'm wondering what it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e491	I guess I think the representative Carl I. Hagen gets a little little recognition that he's become a considerably more modest man in the last two years. Everyone remembers that he started out with ambitions to become a big-time president, and now he is very happy to be a janitor. There has been a certain increase in the class with regard to the residence of the janitor after the development of the last days. What SV is amazed at is what is lacking in the requirements that the Progress Party is now presenting to the Government. The most eye-catching in the course of the two years that have passed is the comparisons with which the Progress Party has been involved, which have significantly forwarded the bill to those in Norway who have at least a long way to go. The propulsion party has been involved in the removal of the infant supplement in the child-rescue-substantiating child-restraint. The Progress Party has made a serious cut in labour market measures and unemployment benefits. But none of those who labor the most are mentioned in a single proposal by the 16th Progress Party. Why does the Progress Party blow in those people in Norway who have the least to walk with?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e498	With regard to the standard of living quarters, I can tell you that this janitorial was built in 1997, but it is certainly not until the undersigned buys it, that it will be interesting, so there is nothing about me. Then ask Kristin Halvorsen why there are no other suggestions. We've tried to limit ourselves. We could have made a lot more -- 16 became a pretty large number, I think. But the main answer is, of course, that it comes during the budgetary procedure. It is during the budgetary procedure that we are considering specific budgetary matters, the size of the child's rights and a number of other matters. However, one of the weak groups, namely the users of the elderly care services, is included here in a proposal to provide a popular funding for the care services of the elderly, in line with the fact that the public’s right to health benefits, unemployment benefits, disability pensions and old-age pensions, medicines on blue prescription, etc. It is automatic, and the money comes when the need is present. That is what should also be the basis for the provision of public welfare funding for the elderly. But that is quite right – we are so modest to the government parties that we are asking for an investigation into this complex of matters, not a conclusion, in the proposal that will be put to the vote today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e505	First, I want to say that I'm happy that the leader of the Progress Party Carl I. Hagen is reasonably mild in shape today. It's been the last few days, and it gives hope that it can continue even when we're going to include the budget after Wednesday. So a case study: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik has never said that we should not cooperate on the constitution in the municipalities. We've done that before – this year we can assume that we've done that in a number of cases. But it was when there was something similar government cooperation, parliamentarianism in the municipalities, that the warning was gallant. So it was this claim that voting against proposals from the Progress Party should be an expression of dissent against them. No, it's out of respect that we have different positions. When the Advance Party will allow the alcohol to flow freely, the Christian People's Party votes differently. When we vote to increase aid and development aid, and they vote against it, it is not an expression of disgust, but a statement that we actually have different positions. It's to have respect for each other, and not unwilling. So I hope that Carl I. Hagen ends up saying that it's unwilling the times we vote differently than the Advance Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e514	The Progress Party has never made proposals such as:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The Government asks the Government to pursue an alcohol policy based on the free flow of alcohol.’ We've never done that. It's never been for voting. We had of course realized that the Christian People's Party would vote against, but let me read the proposal that comes to voting today: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate and assess a timetable for a significant reduction in border trade and organised smuggling of alcohol and tobacco through the harmonisation of Norwegian fees at the level of charges in our neighbouring countries and to promote this issue to the Stortinget in spring 2004.’ I.e.: ‘completed and evaluated a timetable’. In it lies the fact that you can go against it when you come up with the big message and warn the Stortinge and say that we do not want such harmonisation. This is the reality today – if you want to look at the problem that Norway, with our taxes on alcohol and tobacco, is now an Eldorado for organised crime, for smugglers. Sweden reduces its alcohol taxes, Denmark does, Finland does, and we have the world's highest charges. We are an eldorado, and the prime minister is obviously organized the best friend of crime. We want to go into that issue and do something about it, but we're just going to ask for an investigation and an assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e529	The Progress Party is concerned with care and health and is constantly talking about better quality and greater capacity in these sectors. We agree, but we believe that resources also need to be increased, not least in order to improve quality and capacity. When the Progress Party talks and talks about this, not least in the election campaign, it is based on the fact that they have not contributed specifically to increasing the resource framework of these areas recently, by having voted in favour of and obtaining a majority for the current state budget, including what we have this year. Furthermore, in its questions and proposals in the context of the debate today, the Progress Party does not address economic resources in terms of improved capacity and quality. The progress party wants to publicize the care of the elderly, without any more money from it. This is seen in the state model of responsibility for healthcare companies and specialist health services, where the lack of resources is now becoming catastrophic. They want to use all private hospitals and clinics, but there will also be only speech unless access to resources to healthcare companies is so good that they can pay for the health services they either perform themselves or buy from others. Will the Progress Party now take on board the consequences of its fine speech and improve the quality of care and health services through more resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e536	The answer is relatively simple, that's yes. But we don't think we're strengthening access to resources to school and care for the elderly by giving this money to the municipalities, because they're quite free to spend that money in completely different areas. Some municipalities have done so, and some municipalities are going to do so. That's why we say we want appropriations from the Storing to the school sector, to the elderly care sector and to the health care sector. And in particular, we will use the principle that the money follows the patient when the need is present. We have it in effort-based funding – as it has improved. It is far from complete, and there are still some people who are not trying to leave it automatic in that when an operation is performed, you should get the reimbursement ISF requires, whether it is a private or a public hospital. Our proposal No. 5 has been put forward to at least go further on this idea by getting a thorough investigation and assessment of these questions. When we don't have a majority for what we've done, at least we're trying to get an investigation, so we can get a pro-contra -- what might be the basis for other parties rejecting this solution where the resources would come automatically, as it does for disability, unemployment benefit, retirement, disability pension, and other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e543	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e546	I think so far that this is a debate that is marked by the fact that the position and opposition feel a little at each other's teeth, but without the great confrontations or great clarifications, and we are not going to get that here today either. But I don't think the Prime Minister is presenting the Government's policy with the glow and enthusiasm that I've seen in the past that the Prime Minister has done his thing every day. I think the government is characterized by the fact that it is heavy for many to prioritize as much right-wing policy as this government is going to get, and that the great victories, the great money being moved during these years, the Right heart is closer than that of the Christian People's Party and the Left. At the same time, one is in that situation because the Christian People's Party has made an active choice. It stands for that respect, and they have to be on it too. It is clear that at the moment when the Christian People's Party chooses to go to government with the Right, it becomes right-wing policy of it. And there will also be – as we see – large and small loops for games and specks in Stortinget, because they depend on Carl I. Hagen and with completely open eyes have made themselves dependent on him. Kjell Magne Bondevik is Prime Minister because Carl I. Hagen wanted Kjell Magne Bondevik to be Prime Minister. This government sits because the Progress Party voted in favour and was satisfied with the answers they received to political concessions. And it's going to continue as long as the Christian People's Party has chosen it since they did. They know very well that there is another alternative to 2005 in the case of a new majority. If the Christian People's Party changes sides and leaves the Government, there is another possible majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and the Christian People's Party, until 2005. I think it'll be completely up to the Christian People's Party which side they choose. But I have to give a little bow to Carl I. Hagen too. It's possible that it makes the impression that he's a little pussy on the pulpit and makes 16 constructive suggestions, and that there's someone wondering. When Carl I. Hagen in the next second personally accuses Bondevik of being responsible for serious crime in Norway, it is difficult to take that kind of cooperation invitation completely seriously. And there we are at the heart of the matter. It is precisely this location of the Progress Party Carl I. Hagen loves everything on earth – a little inside, a little outside, with the ability to influence politics a little, but at the same time totally free to take responsibility for some of what he has actually been involved in. And it can send a warm greeting to Kjell Magne Bondevik and Right that he is a little inside and a little outside. That's why, of course, this is going to shape the rest of this period, and I'm also typing a situation of government change before 2005. I can only understand that it would be in the interest of the Advance Party to show some muscles before the 2005 big shot, which is going to be a more polarized choice than we've seen for a long time. That's why I'm going to spend the rest of my time saying what SV is going to mobilise to move forward towards the big shot in 2005. When I say that SV is going to work for a more polarized choice – but I also think that the Progress Party and others are going to do it – I think in 2005 you will be faced with two much clearer alternatives than what has been the situation until now. For the SV, there is a great responsibility on us, because we are the radical, left-wing socialist, modern party in Europe that has managed to achieve the greatest success in any election, and now has a considerable responsibility to continue the mobilisation of a greener Norway, a more solid and fair Norway, for a kind of policy that listens to what people have at heart, and that is in dialogue with the people, who are available, and who have visions of foreign policy to have an independent voice in relation to the too many who are led by Bush tomorrow, dinner and evening. A small turn to the Labour Party and the EU debate first. I think it's quite funny when Jens Stoltenberg says he wants to take care of the curiosity of the EU debate and accuses the centre party of being very little curious. I perceive the Workers' Party – at least the Yes side of the Workers' Party – and the Centre's party as about as little curious. It can't be that you're curious when you're in front, but the best thing when you're against it. But I am pleased if the Labour Party wants an EU debate, a debate on the EEA Agreement, a curious approach to what an enlargement of the EU actually means. What is important to us, and which conflicts with the possibility of mobilising a new political majority in 2005, is to say that before a new majority in 2005, the desire for a new referendum goes. Then that debate is gone. Then you're in a fight situation and down in the trenches right away. It should be made difficult to mobilise for a 'yes' position on the part of the Workers' Party and, at the same time, to want a majority constellation with the SV and the centre parties, which are opposed, not necessarily because we cannot respect the diversity of views on the EU issue, but because we in many established EU countries see this as a question where those who are the most concerned followers are those who are the elites of society and those who serve the best. If you go closer to Sweden's election results, the broad, popular movements are skeptical about the whole Union project. In those who are usually the most important allies on the left, the young, the ladies, the low pay and those who live in the districts, it is a massive scepticism for this project, which is primarily based on the top. It's going to be the big dilemma of the yes-side next time as well. Therefore, the SV wants a curious, open debate on the EU. However, we do not want a rematch on Norwegian EU membership, and our call for the yes side is: Let the voters now get the option to a Right- predominant government clearly in the 2005 Grand Prix elections. Let's take the EU debate that needs to be, but without putting it on the head and rushing in – point 1 because you can lose, point 2 because we think it's a project that goes against what we want the voters to have as an alternative in 2005. An alternative in 2005 must be because one wants strong political governance in contrast, or precisely because market forces are so unpredictable in their game of jobs and values every day. We cannot have a policy that is just as unpredictable. We have a major challenge in Norway. Norwegian business is never going to compete just at price. Still, it is profitable to transport fish fillets from Norway to China, fillet them there and transport them back. We can't compete with that. But we can compete on quality, we can compete on competence. Of course, we also have to be competitive at price, but not just at it. And it requires an effort towards Norwegian business both in terms of research and in terms of access to risk capital, not only in the Oslo pot, but also in the rest of the country. It requires an education system that is top-notch at all times. This requires framework conditions for industry, for example: better depreciation rates that allow faster replacement of equipment, but it also requires some ambitions in terms of governance options and wishes for where the State holds strong holdings, e.g. Hydro. The second thing we have to do is to get an education system that's really up and up. It is quite shocking that so many students and, in particular, the boys — especially the practical boys — do not meet in school with some kind of education and training that meets them and develops them. It's no use if they never get that many more hours. With the same type of pedagogy, they're not going to learn anything more. We just have to have a school that works a lot more practical and active if many of the students who are currently hanging out are actually going to be hooked on. That the differences in one of the richest countries in the world will continue to increase, that we have poverty among young people that means that many do not get involved, that for example. some of the back of the medal that Right won in Oslo, is that the sport is becoming more expensive and all the offers that made it possible to have some arenas where kids could be mixed without referring to what their parents had of economics, that's exactly what an alternative to a Right-dominated government has to do with. In addition, we need ambitions in environmental and climate policy. The proportion of the population in Norway is falling rather than increasing. It's going backwards into the future. The same is true of the enormous challenges we face to make the new generations choose the care profession as an interesting future job. We can discuss care for the elderly here at Stortinget until we turn blue, but we don't get anyone to do the job and to think it's a meaningful job, we have nothing to do with. There's going to be a crisis if we don't pledge respect for and reward the care professionals. The third theme is international. I'm sure I'll have a chance to get back to many times later. I think very many people far into the center parties want a government that takes much more responsibility for that we can't have a superpower that walks forward alone in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e572	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e576	I am pleased that SV agrees with the Workers' Party that we need an open and curious debate on Norway's relationship with the EU and Europe. On the other hand, I am a little uncertain as to what this curiosity is about in SV, because I perceive it so that SV believes that it should now be ruled out that it can be discussed at all again the question of Norwegian membership of the EU throughout the next enlargement period, i.e. until 2009. And then it's a little bit unclear what we're really going to be curious and open relative to. I have not concluded, the Labour Party has not concluded, but that is exactly why we are curious and open. It could be that we recommend an application, it could be that we don't, it could be that we have an open approach even in the next period. In addition, there are important discussions about the euro, fisheries and agriculture that belong to such an open and curious debate. But SV has concluded, and then some of the transparency goes away when you say we should rule it out, add it to the page. I believe that SV should not turn the EU case into a case that prevents a binding centre-left cooperation. One area may be curious and open in relation to SV, and that is the EEA Agreement. I am curious if SV still believes that we should cancel the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e583	Now let's be absolutely clear here. It is not likely that the next EU debate in the Labour Party will conclude with a resounding no to Norwegian EU membership. Nor is it likely that the next EU debate in SV will conclude with a yes. A majority in SV is going to be against, but I think more people are actually going to have a different attitude to the EU issue. But the whole line from Jens Stoltenberg now seems to me to be interesting, because if you go to elections in 2005 with the equivalent of what you call the suicide paragraph of this Bondevik government, it's something else than the Workers' Party saying that it's urgent to get into the EU that it's our case no. 1 in 2005. Because that's the situation that gets confusing for the voters. There's a situation where you try to ride two horses at once. It is a situation in which one will not be able to get in both bag and bag, namely to run an EU fight in parallel with fighting for a new majority of parties that have a different political project. But then I actually think we're getting a little further.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e592	When I listen to Kristin Halvorsen, it strikes me that the politician Kristin Halvorsen probably learned the most from, is Ronald Reagan – not in terms of policy content, but in terms of form. He also used about 90 pst. of the time to describe the situation, a few percent to describe what he himself wanted, and even less to describe the consequences of his own policies. So is Kristin Halvorsen. What we often experience is that when we confront Kristin Halvorsen with what is actually in SV's program, or the consequences of SV's policy, she almost responds to a rage fall. The Swedish proposal for a six-hour working day, the proposal to reintroduce property taxes in Oslo, the proposal to reverse the oil taps by saying no to oil expansion – just think of Snow White and what it means for Aker Kværner and securing 1,500 jobs – the consequence of SV’s proposal to cancel taxes or Jens Stoltenberg’s question of notifying Norway out of the EEA. We don't hear about this anymore. Is it because Kristin Halvorsen is going away from his old program, or is it because she doesn't like to be confronted with the consequences of SV's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e599	I don't know if Jan Tore Sanner thinks it's a compliment when he compares me to Ronald Reagan, but I'm used to taking people with the good, so I guess it was basically. In fact, I think one of the reasons why SV has a lot of excitement is that we essentially concentrate on talking about what we have on our heart. But I agree that I easily skipped the challenge from Jens Stoltenberg instead. The EEA Agreement has many features that should be discussed. The EEA Agreement also has many disadvantages. However, we cannot operate and gamble with Norwegian jobs by cancelling the EEA Agreement without having a replacement that ensures Norwegian jobs. I actually think that not only we, but a lot of others too, agree that the EEA agreement has many disadvantages. In terms of the other aspects of SV's policy: we stand for the fact that we were against the development of the Snow White field. We stand for an alternative tax policy. What has puzzled me many times in this election campaign is that the right obviously does not think SV is bad enough in itself. They have to dictate something that they think is worse, and then they have to fight it. I am accustomed to the Right-people with a twist of bourgeois formation, and I wish them cordially welcome back!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e610	I listened with interest to the article to Kristin Halvorsen to hear if I could find something that was relevant to the unemployed. Unfortunately, I didn't. We know that SV was very keen in the debate both in the election campaign and also in the treatment of the revised national budget for measures to combat unemployment. Now there wasn't one word about it in Kristin Halvorsen's posts. Nor was there a word from SV and Kristin Halvorsen on the challenges facing Norwegian workers and Norwegian people's rights regarding the enlargement of the EU next year. There are only two parties that have fixed their position. The Progress Party has said that the desire is transitional arrangements, similar to that of a number of other countries, in order to safeguard the interests of Norwegian workers in the future and to safeguard public confidence. It could be interesting to hear what Kristin Halvorsen and SV want in comparison with EU enlargement by 10 countries next year. Do they, like the Government, wish uncritically to allow the immigration of labour to take place without taking into account reservations or facilitating the protection of the public interest and Norwegian workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e615	I thought maybe the Sandberg representative would understand that when we talked about industrial policy, district work places, fish and competitiveness, it was all about, among other things. on unemployment. I was very much in the middle of my post. But I can tell you that it does! So until the issue of the challenge that Norway is facing in expanding the EEA territory, and the issue of social dumping. Yeah, that's a question that concerns SV. I don’t think anyone deserves a situation in the Norwegian labour market where jobseekers from new EU Member States are imported into Norway and offered worse pay and working conditions than they have in Norway. It is a situation of social dumping that can be very serious. If transitional arrangements are discussed based on the need to monitor the situation on the labour market that then arises, the SV is for transitional arrangements. But so far in the debate, there have been similarities between transitional arrangements and limiting the rights of workers from the new Eastern European Member States. That SV does not seem to be the current policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e624	I believe the representative, Kristin Halvorsen, and I am some of you, that the two major international challenges, and therefore our own, are divided between the poor and the rich and the international environmental challenges. When the representative Halvorsen described the current government, I thought it might fall into a rather large ditch. She describes this government as a government implementing Right-wing policy. Before the elections, the representative Halvorsen said that it was not about getting a forward-looking environmental policy and development policy with a cooperation between the Christian People's Party and the Right. It's quite obvious that the Right has got a pass on a lot of things. But does not the representative of Halvorsen think that it is simply untrue to talk about his almost when he does not acknowledge that when it comes to international environmental work and development work, this government is in the forefront, and that the ministers of the Right and the Christian People's Party who implement that policy internationally have great respect out there? Does the representative of Halvorsen think that the government of Stoltenberg was better at that, or does she actually have to admit that here it is necessary to correct the way one expresses itself, little by little?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e631	I always wonder what's the best way to approach the representative Lilletun. In fact, I don't think we disagree so terribly about so many things. So do I think you're going to start with the things you're agreed on, and the raw crutches of it, which are fundamental to constructive and correct pedagogics, or are you going to bother a little about the areas where you know you're bad? That's the balance we're trying to have on SV's side. Because we realize that if it's just a bad thing to get for the Christian People's Party tomorrow, dinner and evening, we push such people as the representative Lilletun even further away from us – into the darkness, to say it like that. Therefore, I would like to say that we have agreed with this government on climate issues and environmental issues. I don't know if we're going to set the previous labor party governments as standard in relation to environmental issues, or whether we're going to allow ourselves to take a little more height to have more ambition than that – I think. But we have many larger tasks to do in relation to that sector than we have so far done. And it's clear that with a little bit more of the billions that have gone to the tax havens, we would have come a lot further. It may well be Lilletun agrees with SV i on a good day.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e638	Kristin Halvorsen used part of his post to talk about things that SV will mobilise for up to 2005 – a greener Norway and a fair Norway were among the people she mentioned. Difference Norway was also among what was listed. In addition, Kristin Halvorsen also talked about Norwegian business, for which it is important to facilitate, so that we get a good development. Very often when I hear representatives from SV talking about Norwegian business, there is an element that a never – or at least almost never – to moderate me a little – comes along, and it's intercourse. Nor in his article today, Kristin Halvorsen's relationship was one of the points that it was important to take into account in relation to Norwegian business. When I meet business leaders, with better communications and reducing distance costs, it is always an important element. That's how we're going to export a lot - the fish file, called Kristin Halvorsen. Then it's just to remember, because SV is busy with collective effort, that fish don't travel collectively, so we have to have other ways to export our goods. Does SV realize that there is a very important link between better communication in the districts and a well-developed business?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e645	Yes, we do. That is why we have consistently advocated that in central terms, public transport should have the largest investments. In many districts, public transport is not an alternative, and there's the road standard you're talking about. It is hopeless for a business if parts of the way e.g. are closed in winter or are exposed to breeds. It is clear that then there are foreseeable framework conditions and difficult to operate. So in that area, I absolutely believe that SV and the Center Party can be taken. But we want an ambition that significant parts of freight should go on water, and much more could go on rail. We could get a lot more of this away from the road and onto another type of transport. It would make road safety much better, it would make the need for new investment less, and it would lead to more environmentally friendly transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e650	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e654	Let me start with a few words about the EU question. The representative of Stoltenberg stated in a reply earlier that the Central Party has decided and is motionless in the EU question. I can confirm that. The centre party is to trust in the EU case, and we are to be. We must be the guarantor of those who do not want Norway to become a member of the European Union. That is why we must also do what we can to resolve what is called curiosity, and which is said to be in a way the idea of a partial membership of the European Union, that one should argue against what one has previously argued about when, among other things. concerns economic and monetary union. We shall argue and show that a democratic deficit in relation to the differentiated employer’s fee through the EEA is not eliminated by Norway becoming a member of the EU – on the contrary, it will be just as difficult. We're going to clear up pauses of thought and so-called curiosity, which is just a platform to be able to say yes at any given time. We are also going to raise the debate on the new draft constitution, which is not about a Europe in several stages, but is about an EU where one has to have more majority decisions and less influence for the small countries. The Central Party continues to have considerable curiosity about how the Workers’ Party may contribute to a third membership request while also wanting to contribute to a majority government to address important issues for the country of Norway. It is a difficult debate, which the Central Party must follow with considerable curiosity, but it is the Labour Party's own debate. The power investigation shows that Norway is facing major democratic challenges. Elections at the local elections of the year confirm the same. It's a multi-faceted question, but one of the things we should be concerned about in today's throne debate is that the low turnout reflects a trust problem. And we in the big parties should ask ourselves if we have an honest dialogue with the voters. People understand that disunity between the parties means that not everything can be accomplished in Stortinget. But do they understand our inability to implement it by a majority in the Stortinge during an election campaign has actually said that they want to carry it out? For example, if one after this election campaign is to take on seriously what a majority has said in some cases, it should. not be so difficult to sew together next year's municipal budget. The government has said that we will have the biggest promise in the municipal economy for many years. And all the parties have promised, so there are monks in both the school and the elderly. Nevertheless, people have doubts about us, and they have enough reason to do so, especially if both this debate and debates beyond the harvest are to be largely about the political game and government power over the practical case-oriented policy that this House must also be concerned with. The Central Party will encourage a debate on how the promises made by a majority during the election campaign can actually be followed up. That is why we have also chosen to make some proposals here today, and those proposals are based on what a majority of the parties and a majority in this Chamber have actually said during the election campaign. We will give the party leaders who have been in Høyanger and Årdal, who have said that Hydro's activities should be modernised, an opportunity to vote in favour of our proposal today that the Government should enter into a dialogue with Hydro about the framework conditions for further activity and modernisation in Høyanger, in Årdal and on Karmøy. What else did Carl I. Hagen, Jens Stoltenberg and Kristin Halvorsen mean by what they said in Høyanger? I don't think of the Prime Minister as the owner, but I think of the Prime Minister and the Government as the government and as Prime Minister. It didn't cost Gerhard Schröder anything to come to Norway to talk about the yard industry. I have still not seen the Norwegian Prime Minister contact Hydro about the important questions for the future of the activities of the communities that this is about. We want what is promised about the differentiated employer's fee during the election campaign to be followed up. What did the proponents of the Progress Party, who have sent letters to the Prime Minister, who have expressed themselves in the newspapers, think that something must be done here to avoid the greatest increase in charges for the districts of time? What did they mean? They will have the opportunity to follow it up today, related to the proposal of the Central Party, and we know that it will not lead to any million fines for Norway. Amund Utne in ESA has confirmed that no fines are imposed in State aid cases, which may include what becomes a settlement related to a court proceedings — not at this stage. We want the Minister of Agriculture's acknowledgment to Her Majesty the Queen on the cultural landscape to fall into an action by the Government to preserve the cultural landscape. And the statements of the Council of State Gabrielsen on the importance of the cultural landscape for travel life should also soon be followed up by this government on the issue of keeping a Norway in the process of growing again, not least because of a totally unsatisfactory agricultural policy. We want those who have been in the election campaign talking about emergency medicine and maternity services to have the opportunity here today to vote in favour of a proposal and confirm the attitudes they have expressed in the election campaign. What did the Workers' Party mean by what they said about Lærdal and the hospital in Lærdal? What did they mean by what they said at Gjøvik, and about what the working party rapporteur said at Gjøvik today? What did the Advancement Party John I. Alvheim mean about the hospitals, the maternity wards and the emergency medicine? They're going to be able to show it today. In addition to its own proposals, the Centre Party is ready for practical cooperation with other parties on the issue of better schooling, better care for the elderly and hospital services, and we are open to conciliation and compromise in different areas. We believe that the voters after this election campaign deserve that we also actually show that we will follow up the election campaigns in practice. Whatever the approach the Prime Minister has chosen in his speech today, it is unfortunately a fact that the government's work bears an increased impact on wear and tear, and that the Right has gained the speed to realize some of its major political projects. This concerns the issue of outsourcing activities, the issue of mergers between municipalities, the issue of the removal of the county council, and the question of replacing targeted industrial policies with general tax havens. It is also a question of contributing to irreversible structural changes in the agricultural and fisheries sectors, and, unfortunately, it is surprising to see how easy it is to play the right side here. Developments show that there is a need for a more powerful voice in Stortinget that can speak the language of districts, communities, industry and business. That voice will be the Center Party, and we also feel that the choice of the harvest has given us a strength in that work. Therefore, our political work will continue to be about the fight to maintain value creation, jobs and welfare services in the districts, and that we are to expand the infrastructure in this country. Therefore, our political work will continue to focus on ensuring municipalities a real opportunity to improve local welfare. It is not useful to say that this is the greatest effort in many years, when we know that the newly elected and elected people in the municipalities in January and February will sit and torment between cutting down on schools or on elderly care. It is not useful to say that the State will take over the care of the elderly. It's not the organization that's the problem, it's the resources, just like it was for the hospitals. Our political work will continue to be about an industrial policy that can provide and create jobs in Norway. But it requires targeted industrial policies, and it demands that the most capitalist state in Europe invests more of its capital on business, on knowledge and technology. In this area, the Government's ambitions are very modest, not to say misguided. In this context, we also feel that the two proposals that the Progress Party has made in this area are positive. We're also going to continue to fight for an infrastructure where we're not going to end the country at the Polar Circle or outside the E6 and say that they don't need broadband there. We want an infrastructure policy that says that everyone in this country should have broadband access, just as it was with the telephone services at the time they came. We will also provide an infrastructure to maintain the road network in Norway and further expand transport services. It's one of those areas where the government has really not followed up what it itself has promised in the Sem Declaration. I understand that there will be a good deal of discussion about the cooperation situation. But I have to say that I am afraid that this fall will be so marked by a discussion of cooperation, where none of the parties will actually play out all of their cards, that we lose some of the possibility of a case-by-case practical cooperation, which I think the voters expect of us. We are at risk of becoming more concerned with the game than with the things in this room. I don't think our voters deserve that, and I don't think this hall deserves that either. The centre party will contribute to practical cooperation and to compromises, and it is against this background that I will also address the proposals No. 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21 of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e688	The representative Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e693	I thought it was very interesting that Marit Arnstad no would be the industry's talking ear here in the house. I am also pleased that the Centre Party says that there is a need for an active industrial policy. It's very easy to be along in this rhetoric, but when it comes to action, I think that we through history have the basis to ask questions about whether there's real will behind this rhetoric. It's true that the Center Party wants to spend more oil money, but throughout the 1990s, they've been fighting almost all of the projects that have now given us these oil revenues. In the spring, the Center Party and Arnstad were very concerned that the Snøkvit contract was going to go abroad, but here in the hall they voiced the whole contract. So now they want Hydro to invest in Norway. One of the most important arrangements for that to happen is that one has enough electricity at a reasonable price. So here, the Center Party has done everything they can to prevent what is the most important authority from being in place. That's why my question becomes: is there also the will to put action behind these words and actually become business speakers?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e700	In the last few years, I have often wondered that the Workers' Party, which is so concerned about industrial policy, seems to be making industrial policy synonymous with gas power stations and Snow White. It's like the two things it's about for the Workers' Party in the field of industrial policy. But it is with respect to report a rather narrow way of looking at the issue. Yes, the Center Party will be involved in discussing how to pursue a more targeted industrial policy. We believe that there are two competitive advantages this country has that should be exploited in a completely different way than we do today. One is that we have a population with a very high level of knowledge, and we should use that to focus more on knowledge and technology development than we do today. The second is that we have a state with a strong capital base, and that capital base should be developed in relation to Norwegian business – more capital availability for special industries and more capital availability for some of the companies in that country. We would like to discuss these issues with the Workers' Party if we can only get past the gas power debate in which the Workers' Party is always going to hang, and into some of the areas where there is actually the possibility of obtaining a reasonable majority. The first thing we can do together is to vote for the proposal that the Central Party has made today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e710	Long-term diminished purchasing power in our main international markets has resulted in lower demand for Norwegian goods and services. On this basis, I had not expected the Central Party today to announce some points of light regarding further positive prospects, but it is positive regardless of the fact that Norwegian business finally starts to look brighter in the future after the government has got a moderate wage settlement in place, after the Norwegian krone price has been severely weakened, and after systematically tearing down the strange, high interest rate. In this difficult situation, the Central Party will continue to terminate the EEA Agreement. Has the Central Party really taken the trouble to calculate what full rates of duty to our main market would have to say in essential areas for Norwegian jobs and Norwegian enterprises? Have you calculated the fatal effects this will have on Norwegian jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e717	Yes, the Centre Party is concerned with what has been the industrial challenges both for the fishing industry and for all other industrial activities. We've been very worried for the last two years during this government. For the government has razed a good deal of support for SND and for research, also for marine research. One can now face the increase in the cost to industry of time, not least in Kristiansen’s own home country, Nordland. It's quite dramatic, what you're facing in terms of this government's lack of a policy on nutrition. With regard to the termination of the EEA Agreement, it is correct that the Central Party considers this to be an alternative. We see with interest that the NUPI, the Norwegian Institute for Foreign Affairs, has just made an investigation where one has looked at the possibilities of both EU membership, EEA membership and a Swiss solution, with several bilateral agreements. We think it is positive that the kind of alternatives are finally on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e724	The Prime Minister said in his speech that Norway is and ‘must be an environmental policy country’. This means that industry and industry have strict specialise in emissions and have special environmental taxes. The result of this distortion of competition is that Norwegian industry is flagged out, with the loss of thousands of Norwegian industrial workplaces. For years the Progress Party has made proposals to harmonise Norwegian environmental requirements and taxes for industry and for industry with those of the countries against which industry and industry compete. These proposals, which we have promoted, have been voted against in the past by the Centre Party and all the other parties in this Chamber. Will the Central Party turn around this time and vote in favour of our proposals, which preserve value creation and Norwegian jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e731	The centre party voted against the new climate tax linked to the process industry through which the government was awarded, together with the Socialist Left Party. The reason we voted against it – together with the Progress Party and the Workers' Party – was that we thought it was very unfair that a small part of Norwegian industry should be charged such a fee, at a time when no other industry was charged such a fee, but also in relation to the rest of Norwegian business. So on that point we already have a certain common position to refer to, but from there and to what I would call the reckless environmental policy that the Progress Party stands for, it is such a long way to go that I do not think the Progress Party should expect the Center Party to join in. We have a completely different approach to environmental policy than that of the Progress Party, but we are open to the fact that there must be justice and a certain division of the burden on business in relation to environmental policy, and that did not happen in connection with the climate tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e736	Like SV, the centre party is very concerned about the loss of the differentiated employer fee. Three different governments have now spent four years doing almost nothing to put in place alternative schemes. It is still quite clear that on 1 January 2004, we have a negotiated agreement that has been approved by all parties, and no one knows what kind of regime is facing Norwegian companies on 1 January 2004, if that is not the case. Today, the Centre Party is promoting a proposal that changes to the 2004 differentiated employer fee should not be implemented. Most of us do want it to be possible to implement such a proposal, but so far all experts and all business organisations that SV has been in contact with have warned against such a proposal. In his post today, the Center Party's Marit Arnstad says that there is no danger to this. Could Marit Arnstad address this and, if necessary, document its claims, so that it would have been possible to implement such an important proposal as the Centre Party is promoting today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e745	It is true that the Senterpartiet and SV have agreed on the differentiated employer’s fee. Sometimes I get a feeling that SV thinks it is very important to tell them that so and so many governments haven't done anything about it. But when we say OK, let's move on and try to do something now, SV sits back a little bit and says no, we don't know whether we want to, because we're afraid of the consequences. I believe that there is no basis for that. In fact, what the Prime Minister said in the World Gang about the elections regarding million fines for Norwegian business life is not right. Amund Utne in ESA has confirmed that no fines are imposed on State aid cases. It's given in the case after a court hearing, and that's not what we're talking about in this case. We're talking about a matter that's in a process. The government has not received any binding notification from ESA that a system that is more extensive than today cannot be accepted, for ESA shall not give any prior notification on it, and ESA has not heard anything from the Government about it. It is also confirmed in a letter today to Nordnorsk Verftscooperation from just ESA.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e752	My starting point is that politicians are representatives. We're going to represent our voters, and we're the representatives of our voters, both in terms of mandate and role. The centre party and the left have a long tradition of being concerned with district policy, seas if we may have been a little bit more concerned with the relationship between town and town. But the principle is that an agent should primarily represent those who have no one to speak for themselves. This explains, for example: Role of the Children’s Ombudsman. It also explains why it was right to have a gender equality agency at a time when women had a few representatives to speak for themselves. Then my question to the Center Party is, when the Center Party now wants a district agent, does that mean that they have given up representing their voters? Does that mean that they have given up a district policy, which is part of the policy area that we are going to discuss? And that means they've given up the possibility to represent the districts' opinions, for example. This pulpit?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e760	I can assure the Left that in no way does it mean that the Central Party has abandoned district policy. Our proposal for a district ombudsman is a parallel to the Swedish Glasbygdverket, but it is difficult to call a Norwegian ombudsman for the Glasbygdverket. We've had a little bit of trouble with the name, I'm going to agree with it, but the point is that it's going to be a body that takes care of the interests of the districts and contributes facts and basic material to the impact of different decisions on the part of the districts. It has worked very well in Sweden. The glassworks have an important role to play. We believe that such an institution could also have an important role in Norway. I also agree that the Central Party and the Left have a lot in common with regard to district policy. I therefore expect that the Ombudsman from the Left will ensure that it becomes impractical to force municipalities to join forces by promising them broadband or bridges, or going in so that they can actually be forced through municipal mergers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e767	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e770	In today's world, the nation state is under pressure. International capital is systematically designed to dissuade the national State from the possibility of governing social development. In particular, the national State is pressed to give up its right to control its own natural resources, key enterprises and population development. As a centre party with a conservative view of value, the Coastal Party will defend the nation state. Without the national state, it will be impossible to ensure a good future for each family and community. We believe that an equivalent cooperation between independent nation states is a prerequisite for a real democracy at both international and local level. At global level, many actors contribute to strengthening the power of international capital. The World Trade Organisation is organised in such a way that it acts as a driver for the degradation of the national State. But in this debate I will focus on another global actor, who operates more quietly. I'm talking here about the so-called Bilderbergs. Here, leaders from many nations meet at closed meetings to discuss the international situation. We in the Coast Party believe that the Norwegian people are entitled to know what is going on at these meetings. I would therefore like to challenge the Norwegian politicians who have participated in such meetings to indicate what is the real agenda for the Bilderbergs. Is there a reduction of the national State? The main threat to the nation states of Europe is the EU. A growing number of European countries are subject to the EU regime, which is working for the free movement of goods, capital, services and persons across borders. The proposal for a Constitution for the EU confirms that the Union is gradually transformed into a federation, where the national elected bodies of the Member States are set aside. Through the EEA and Schengen, Norway is so closely linked to the EU system that our own governance options are greatly reduced. Through the EEA, we have imposed a number of directives that have major adverse effects. The most relevant examples of this are the obligation to abolish the differentiation of the employer’s fee and the rules for the placing on the market of alcoholic beverages in the shops. In order to ensure Norwegian independence, the Coastal Party will have a normal trade agreement with the EU, without any element of transnationality. Through Schengen, we are prohibited from carrying out personal checks at the border between Norway and the EU. This provision has resulted in total out-of-control immigration to Norway. Norwegian politicians have waived the possibility of deterring cross-border crime, terrorism and illegal immigration. They have also abandoned an important opportunity to control population development in Norway. We are a rich country with a small population. We are very vulnerable to the large movements of people that take place in our day. I would therefore challenge the Progress Party to explain why the party voted against my proposal in Stortinget on Norwegian border control against Schengen. The Norwegian Sea has been affected by the radioactive discharges from Sellafield in England for many years. There have been signs that some of the installations in Sellafield will be shut down during a 10-year period and that the emissions of technetium-99 will be stopped. However, the Norwegian authorities must not settle for this. We must maintain the pressure against the United Kingdom until we see concrete results. This is vital for the environment throughout the North Atlantic. We are a great force on the sea and have an area seven times the size of our own land area. So we need the new rescue helicopter. The EH 101 helicopter is a matter of course. The Norwegian coast will increasingly be affected by international oil cargo. This poses a major threat to the fishing industry. The coastal party believes that oil tanks need to be routed much further from land than the authorities provide. Sailors within the 12-mile zone where fishing vessels are obliged to leave, are totally unacceptable! The Coast Guard and the Oil Guard must be strengthened. For the Coastal Party, it is essential that the yield of the maritime industries benefits the coastal population. We cannot accept that the Norwegian maritime fleet is manned with cheap foreign labour. Nor can we accept that the value of fish quotas is used to enrich shareholders rather than create jobs locally. The universality of the troughs to local fishing facilities must be reinforced. We need adults, experienced people to recruit and train local labour, not least Norwegian youth, to the maritime industries. The Coastal Party is therefore very concerned about the proposals to cut public subsidies to the Government of the Fisheries Industry. The net pay scheme is a crucial framework condition for the maritime industry. The Coastal Party wants a fairer pension scheme for fishermen and seafarers, where a pension is paid from the institution to which you have paid your pension. Natural resources must be managed in a sustainable manner. The coastal party has received increasing support in its fight for the taxation of seals and whales. We feel that other parties are increasingly seeing the need to tax the royal crab, so that this alien species does not create an imbalance in marine ecology. We are also critical of the release of wolves in Norway, cf. The TV2 programme on this matter. National ownership is important for the benefit of the Norwegian population. Despite this, Norwegian growth is constantly adopting new laws that allow the sale of enterprises and resources to the rest of the world. The Mineral Law, the Water Resource Act, the Energy Act, the Law on Sea grazing and the Breeding Act are good examples. Privatisation of state property also opens up for sale to the rest of the world. One of the main tasks of the Coastal Party is to stop this development. In today’s low economic and high unemployment situation, a large part of the State Petroleum Fund should be used in Norway. Adequate allocations to municipalities will enable them to perform their tasks and develop more self-sustaining communities. And through tax relief for necessities such as housing, food and work, each family will be better able to cope with itself. The Coastal Party will strengthen the home and family by abolishing both property, property and property taxes on housing. In addition, we will abolish the inheritance tax, which affects many families and small businesses hard. We also believe that the document fee for the purchase of the dwelling is too high. The Coastal Party appreciates that the Government has promised to abolish the benefit tax during the current peak period, but so far nothing has happened, at least little. The party of progress has had many chances of pushing the government at this point, but has not yet used it. Ranveig Frøiland has recently said that the Workers' Party will also abolish the benefit tax. I hereby challenge Jens Stoltenberg to confirm that this is the case. I don't think so until I see it! The Norwegian political landscape is changing. The Christian People's Party and the Left have sacrificed central cooperation in favour of government cooperation with the Right. And the Central Party is increasingly investing in government cooperation with the Workers' Party. In this situation, there is a growing need for a party that will fight for the return of the centre option to be an independent force in Norwegian policy. The coastal party will be a propellant in this context. Some claim that the centre is not an independent political alternative, and that the voters should only have the choice between the left-hand side and the right-hand side. But the fact is that a value-conservative centre party such as the Coastal Party is clearly different from both the socialism of the left and the liberalism of the right. We want to protect the little man and woman from abuse from both public and private power concentrations. We want to ensure the settlement in the districts, while at the same time facilitating the pressure on the cities. Land and city, together again! And who should be able to flag the EU case without entering into hopeless compromises with the 'Work Party' and 'Right' parties? The answer you all know. It's the Coast Party!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e808	No one has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e811	The policy of the co-operation administration is now beginning to work. Aker Kværner recently got a contract of SEK 1.5 billion in connection with the Snow White project. SAS has awarded the contract for heavy maintenance to Gardermoen. Aker Brattvaag The Sunnmøre Group was recently contracted to build five new supply ships worth 800 million. kr. Aker Verdal recently signed a contract with the British oil company EnCana, worth 750 million. kr. The French company Eramet announced on 12 September that they were betting on the two melting plants in Saudi Arabia and Porsgrund. In the Eramet press release, the Director, Bernt Jarle Dolmen, said that for Norwegian industry there is also a competitive advantage as long as, as is now signaled, government authorities are in practice facilitating through predictable and long-term framework conditions for the competitive industry. Government policies deliver results. Now it is important that we do not set the clock back as the Workers' Party wants, nor do we carry out economic experiments of the kind the Progress Party and SV stands for. The welfare is also being expanded. Soon health cows are just a dark memory from the time when the Workers' Party sat with power. From January 2002 to April 2003, the queues were reduced by 14 pst. The appropriations for psychiatry have risen sharply. The public sector is being renewed and modernised. The lean years in school under the Workers' Party, with central control and desk reforms, are gone by the wind. Now we see local freedom, diversity, openness, commitment and demands for knowledge and quality. Within transport, the outsourcing, the release and the deregulation lead to much more money left for us than we received in the past. This government is transforming Norway into the best for its inhabitants. I see no overall opposition to this government. I see three parties cracking in every direction. I see a work party that will turn the clock back. Major public sector modernisations, freedom of choice for users, tax relief and tax relief are threatened if the Workers' Party should return to power. I see a progress party that will experiment with jobs and economics. The very foundation of well-being is threatened if the proposals to bail out the pension funds of the oil fund are given a majority. I see an SV, but I don't know if I'm going to believe what I see. They panic and accuse us of lying when we quote from their party program. The sum of their policies will drain the oil fund, shut down the oil taps and stop the farms. Then add the six-hour day to the top, and Norway can go bankrupt. So does the opposition have nothing in common? Well, they do. A little bit of what they're proposing can be done in practice. There is no sustainability of the proposals. The old-fashioned proposals of the Labour Party will not be implemented. People don't want to accept that the clock is turned back. Once they have the freedom to choose, of course they will not lose it. The air will quickly go out of the balloon to the Progress Party when the pension fund is empty and everyone wonders where it went off. That the program of the Socialist Left Party is not feasible, they have come to realize themselves. That's why they get so angry at us when we quote from the program. I'm proud of the job this government is doing. It pursues a sustainable policy, a policy we with the hand of the heart will give us a better society. Moderate and careful? Well, maybe so, but it's realistic, and it's sensible. The results are starting to come. Now it's neither time to turn the clock back, nor time to experiment. Now it is important to continue on the policy course that the Co-operation Administration has led and run. It will deliver better results for the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e839	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e842	First of all, for the sake of order, it's quite right that the representative Oddvard Nilsen says he doesn't see an overall opposition. Nor has it been my ambition to be with the Progress Party in opposition to this government. It is also true that the Government has a problem when it does not agree with its parliamentary basis, which is the Progress Party. The other thing I want to mention is that this government is adding up to the time's tax increase for thousands of businesses in the district of Norway. This is because the ESA’s proposal has been accepted that a full employer’s fee should be imposed throughout the District of Norway, with the exception of Nord-Troms and Finnmark. For Nord-Troms and Finnmark, the Government has taken advantage of a policy derogation that allows derogations from State aid law. My question to the representative Oddvard Nilsen is: can he explain to me why he has restricted it only to Nord-Troms and Finnmark, but accepts that you should not use that exception, for example. for the rest of Troms, for Nordland, for the mountain region of Oppland, Hedmark and Buskerud and many other district municipalities? We believe that the Government should request a larger exemption and also expressed it in the EEA Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e851	As far as the government is concerned, my point was to say what I said about the sustainability that lies at this moment with the various parties, that it is only in the cooperative government that a policy is found that is sustainable and that can be implemented in practice. Then I will be allowed to say a little to the representative Jens Stoltenberg about this with the employer's fee. I believe that in politics one should be fair in all its ways and in all its ways. I would like to say that some of the things that have disappointed me most in this election campaign are the Workers' Party's consideration of the question relating to the employer's fee and «eg». I am absolutely convinced that Jens Stoltenberg knows about the need for sustainability. He knows very well that he could never have carried out what he has traveled around and said in Norway, if he was in position. He knows that. Therefore, it is in a way disappointing to experience that he is presenting a case in such a way as the Workers' Party has done in the election campaign. The government has done absolutely everything that has been possible, to get this done. We agree on the importance of the employer's fee, but it is disappointing to see that Stoltenberg has used an argument that he himself knows is unsustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e858	I'll say some words about school. Typically, when the elections are over, school issues often disappear from the political debate. Typically, it is said little in the census of the great maintenance that characterizes the everyday life of many schoolchildren. It's late, parents are frustrated and schoolchildren are frustrated. Among the proposals that the Committee on Budgets has made in this Chamber, I refer to proposal No. 8:@item: intable Text context ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up an overview and to present a statement to the Grand Duchy on the maintenance situation of primary and secondary school buildings during the first half of 2004’.» It's late. It has to go faster, and that's why we need to get ahead of ourselves. The challenge for the parliamentary leader of the Right, who is also speaking for the Government, must be to answer whether this is a proposal that the Right can support.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e872	There is a broad consensus in this house that something should be done about the rehabilitation and maintenance of school buildings. In fact, I believe that most of the parties have agreed on this, and in repeated budget proposals the various parties have put forward proposals to that effect. But at the same time, I would like to stress the following: for the right, this too, with school building, is important, but most importantly, the content of the school. There has been a matter that the party has been concerned with over several choices. We have repeatedly pointed out that what needs to be done in Norwegian school is a quality improvement. When every five students who graduate from school can't read, and we actually don't discover it until it's too late, there's something that's in the way of Norwegian school. The main focus of the Right’s part will, of course, be to improve the quality of school in Norway. That's what we need, precisely because our children need that tool to solve the challenges they'll face in the future. It's the most important thing. Of course, school construction should also be done, but a priority is requested, and quality in school is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e879	The representative of Nilsen's claim was that the government's medicine works. If the disease is unemployment, it can't be right. Yesterday, figures from Aetat showed that for the age group under 30 with more than four years of education, the unemployment rate has increased by 44 pst. in one year. And Aetat's warning of further increase beyond the fall. The 20- to 24-year-olds group is the largest increase in the unemployment rate from September 2002 to September 2003. The government medicine in this area obviously doesn't work. Low interest rates alone do not reduce unemployment, and especially youth unemployment. We all know how serious youth unemployment is, also because of their future opportunities in the labour market, and targeted action is now needed. What kind of measures, except to sit quietly and hope in nice weather, do government parties have to reduce youth unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e887	First of all, I would like to say that I believe that all parties, including the government parties, are extremely concerned that they should reduce unemployment in Norway. You ask me, that's what the government has had as the first item on the agenda from the first day. The whole job associated with budgets to make sure that they got so tight, with a view to getting interest rates down, had first and foremost one purpose: to save jobs in competitive business. We were asked for this by LO. We were asked for this by the NHO. We were asked by everyone, that we had to try this out. It's been a very hard job, but the government has done it. As I said in my post: now we also see that it shines in relation to this. You're doing better. It is in no way satisfactory with the result you have, but I am convinced that the policy that the Government is now pursuing, with the emphasis on the factors mentioned here, will produce a better result in the long term. So in the meantime, we're going to put in the targeted measures, which we're going to do. This government has done a lot to Aetat. The main point is that we need to continue the policy put forward by the Government to ensure that we create new jobs and take care of those we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e894	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e897	Norway is a small country with great wealth. This gives us clear challenges and obligations. We have to take care of those who fall outside. Everyone in our country will share in the prosperity. We must strengthen family and other communities, and raise the non-material aspects of life. We must pursue a policy that takes care of the environment and the relatives after us. We must take serious responsibility for our fellow human beings in poor countries. Christian People's Party's group at Stortinget initiated the work of this cottage with a study trip to Madagascar. The country is between the world's poorest. The great majority of the people live in poverty. No one who visits the country can avoid seeing it, or be marked by it. But Madagascar is also a country with a future. The new government in the country gives hope of democratisation, economic progress and the fight against poverty and corruption. Vijinga in Madagascar gave a new perspective on the work here at home, on the election campaign that lies behind us, and on the year of work that we've taken on here at the Stortinget. The challenges in Norwegian society are many and large. At the same time, we know that the multiple languages here in Norway are infinitely better materially than most people on earth. Have we been less grateful and less audacious as wealth has increased? I guess it should be the other way around. Should we believe the investigation presented in the newspaper last Thursday, the Nordics are not only among the most prosperous in the world, but also among the most dissatisfied. Also in Norway, we have unsolved tasks. However, in contrast to the everyday life of women and men in poor regions of the world, parts of the Norwegian political debate may seem pointless. If our political work is to be meaningful, we must have the ability to innovate in the life experience of most people. Looking around in society, we see many signs that security and good community are a shortcoming. Even if most of the Nordics have houses, clothes, enough food and a job to go to, our communities and our families are always the richest. Not since the war has so few nordics used the right to voice as at the local elections in the fall. It gives cause for concern. It should be meaningful to conduct local policies, and meaningful to voice. The government has taken a historic initiative to give the municipalities more freedom. From day to day, the big business must also show that we are serious about saying that local democracy should be strengthened. The local election has led to a shift of power in several places, but here in Stortinget, the composition is the same in this year of work as in the previous year. In other words, the challenges and possibilities are the same as before the summer. Many wonder if the Christian People's Party will change course after a weak election result. To that answer, the co-responsibility we assumed on Shem, we stand firm. The Sem Declaration, together with the Government Declaration, is still our basis of work here at Stortinget. At the same time, we shall be even clearer and visible to the Christian People's Party in the daily work of government and greatness. The Christian People's Party's goal is the same as before: a warmer society with Christian values. We shall continue with the struggle for the human dignity anchored in the Christian vision of man. In the Common Era, the Government has determined that the fight to secure and create jobs and to force the unemployed to be a major issue in the future. The government is betting on a wide front. A tight fiscal policy is particularly important. At the same time, we need a targeted effort to create new jobs. Labour market measures, job clubs and a strengthened Aetat will help the unemployed to get into new work. It's going to pay off for business to have people at work. That is why we must pursue a policy that contributes to the success of the good development with lower interest rates, a sluggish exchange rate and moderate wage developments. In parallel with this, we need to keep a continuous focus on job innovation. Innovation in enterprises across the country is decisive in the fight against unemployment. It is therefore gratifying that the Co-operation Government will present a comprehensive plan to boost innovation and continue to step up efforts in the field of research. The unemployment rate is wasted on resources in our country. The unemployment rate is also a heavy one for all those who are affected by it. Therefore, the Government is running a policy to give you the free hands a job. On one point I would like to join my colleague Oddvard Nilsen. That is true of the Workers' Party's relationship with the employer's fees in the election campaign. I keep Jens Stoltenberg to be a righteous politician. But I have to admit that the way the Labour Party has run this case, when they know how far they got themselves, and they know how difficult this is, has disappointed me. Has Stoltenberg had contact with Iceland and Liechtenstein? Has he taken this up in the meeting with Persson and Schröder? I doubt it, because we know that they have gone against the solutions that Stoltenberg has proposed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e916	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e919	It is an honest thing that the Christian People's Party disagrees with the Workers' Party in the view of a differentiated employer's fee. But I deeply disagree with the conclusion that has been reached, because this discussion is not about what we did three, four and five years ago. Then the Bondevik I government, the Stoltenberg government and the Jagland government are fighting to get ESA to accept the arrangement. We didn't do that. What we got was to get a few more years. We're happy about that. When that work was over, there was one possibility left, and that was to use the political exception, which I think could override the legislation. It's been used for Nord-Troms and Finnmark. That's very good. What we are accusing the Government of is that it has not taken up a wish at political level that more parts of Norway could be exempted. We have received a written reply that it has not been raised once by the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Foreign Affairs that there should have been a major exception. When the Government has not taken up the issue of a greater exemption at all, we believe that it has had a scandalous, passive attitude towards the most important district policy instrument. The government has only bowed to the assessments of what is possible by bureaucrats and diplomats and has not done any real political work. That's the scandal in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e926	Here, a more than one minute's line is needed to go through a proof that Stoltenberg now said not to hold a goal. Firstly, it was difficult enough to agree with Liechtenstein and Iceland that this rule of exception could be used for Nord-Troms and Finnmark. We know that there was a need for the whole EEA to be willing to go into that fight. Furthermore, a number of attempts have been made to find solutions for what is logical policy, simply to continue with a differentiated employer’s fee. It is an unbureaucratic system, and I must say that the European Union does not think much to honor that they are preventing an unbureaucratic system and imposing bureaucratic arrangements on us. At least it doesn't give that project any more trust in the Christian People's Party. I'll just say that! But I must regret it: I stand by the criticism that is directed against the Labour Party, that in opposition they have led to a different argument than they did in the position when it relates to the employers' fees.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e937	I'm going back to school, I, but I guess a former Minister of Education would be fine. The government is talking about it giving priority to a variety of school offerings. Just before the summer vacation, the government parties made a compromise with SV, when the law on independent schools was dealt with in Stortinget. It reintroduced the municipal veto right. How does the Government feel that this multiplicity of school provision should become a reality when, in cooperation with SV, a municipal veto law has actually been reintroduced? Is it that you don't care what municipal politicians say? To follow this right of objection or veto, there will be a significant barrier to the establishment of a diverse school offer. So in 12 seconds, the Prime Minister talked a lot about value issues. I want to go back to maintenance, because that maintenance and the schools we offer our schoolchildren are also about values. What will the government do to make it easier to give children proper school buildings and a decent school day?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e946	The representative of Sortevik is to be commended for bringing the school, which is one of the most important things we have with it, into the debate on the throne, even if he becomes very concrete. There will be almost a budget debate. When it comes to the maintenance of the schools, there's going to be a review of the whole situation. I expect the budget to have additional control over the maintenance of the schools. When it comes to the veto, probably the representative Blackevik was injured to describe correctly what the Storting did. A given municipality was pronounced, yes, but not veto. The Progress Party had the possibility, was to vote for the Government's proposal, which would treat the freshman in all municipalities in a non-discriminatory manner in relation to the cost of the public school. But by going against it, there was a need to search for multiples in another way, but not in the way that a veto was introduced. The new Health Law gives the right of establishment when there is a professional basis for it, and then the municipality doesn't have veto, but he has a right to pronounce.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e955	I am pleased that the Prime Minister stressed that among the core values of the Government is the environment as our trustee, and that Norway should be an environmental policy priority country. Today, the Progress Party has made four proposals in the Chamber that would effectively frustrate Norwegian environmental policy. The party of progress clearly does not share the core values of the Government in these areas. I have great respect for the election of the Christian People's Party when they left the Bondevik I government on an environmental matter. Now we are facing something with greater environmental impacts than the gas power issue, namely the opening of the Barents Sea to oil production. It will lead to greater climate emissions and will greatly affect the vulnerable ecology of the Barents Sea. Can Lilletun promise me that now in the government position he will not go into a matter that has greater consequences than the gas power case? And isn't his heart a little closer to our core values than the Advancement Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e966	Earlier today, I have asked the representative of Halvorsen to recognise that when it comes to environmental policy, this government has led a good line, which was better than the government of Stoltenberg, and was partly in favour of it. Of course, what the representative, Mr Sørensen, is something that we have to deal with seriously and properly. Drawing the conclusion now, before we've seen any kind of distribution, would be wrong. The idea of consistency must be that one gets them on the table and that one executes a hearing before one concludes. But what I promise the representative, Sørensen, is that the Christian People's Party will not be involved in any decision either in government or in mass that has the consequences that the representative, Sørensen, described here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e975	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e979	Norway has lived — and lived well — with minority governments since 1971, with only one exception. Increasingly, this dissatisfaction is being built up, and there is talk of the systemic crisis and the need for majority governments. The left would like to have a majority behind the government and its policies, but some political realities have made it impossible to form majority rule. It's not given in any way that this will change after the next big shot. This is not about a systemic crisis that can be eliminated by formal action, but about politics. The governance problems of minority governments and the calls for chaos and crisis are increasing with the opposition's need for positioning for its own power, rather than the desire for agreed solutions on a case-by-case basis. To the seventh and last things fall in place, with or without government change. It is fundamentally wrong to produce Norwegian policy as a chaos. You can only see Norwegian policy from an international perspective, and you can see the futility of such a claim. But maybe there's some interest in creating the fake image. The country is well governed. For two years, the co-operation administration has been implementing its policy – mainly. The left stands razed and proud in a government that conducts a good policy for the whole country. We have a vision of a social liberal Norway, with more freedom and more responsibility for individuals, for municipalities, for businesses and institutions. Modern Future Norway is not a return to the social democratic guardian state, which deprives people of responsibility and creates credulity and sytem culture. Nor can it be based on external policies on the right, with intolerance and group thinking, anti-environment policy and unhindered commercialism. The government will deliver in the right direction. The Trontale clearly points to the heart issues of the Left, such as freedom reform for local democracy, offensive environmental policy, social responsibility, education and research, innovative business and order in the economy. The State budget and the financial debate will provide an opportunity to explore practical policies. The Progress Party contributed to the establishment of the Cooperation Government. The party is free to contribute to its fall, either because of its own tactical interests or the desire for another government to pursue a policy that is more desirable. But it's now time for parties in the wing position to often find themselves in choosing subsidiaryly, usually between two bottoms. Also the Left has a wing position in some cases and has to compromise. In most cases, we are in the political center and can participate in the preparations for a pooling of solutions. That's why it's natural that parties in the center, even when they're small, are in government, while wing parts, even when they're large, have to be in opposition. It is when the role of the protest party on an outcast is to be united with responsibility and power, that problems are created. They cannot be cleared by the way with symbolic system changes. The ambitions and strategic grip of lots cannot be eliminated by outsiders. The Chairman of the Advance Party, Carl I. Hagen, said in the election campaign that he wanted the center out of Norwegian politics. It is – from his point of view – a good political point of view as long as he will leave the election to the voters. Similarly, the Left can express that it would have made the government of the country much easier if populist wing parties had had had somewhat less upturn and had satisfied themselves with the role of opposition and salt in the social debate. But the electoral elections must and must we live with, and therefore the opposition must also take responsibility when there is no political basis for majority coalitions. The central parties have long traditions for such responsibility; the systemic problems have a striking tendency to become acute when the Workers' Party is in opposition. The left notes that the Cooperative Government is the best and most manageable government the country can have today. It delivers in accordance with the Sem Declaration, and there is a good balance between the parties in the Government. The influence of the centre batch is significant and clear. The desire to remove the sensitive center and reintroduce a simple two-way division in red and blue is not going to succeed. The reality has gone past such simplified images. Even in the two-party system in the United Kingdom, Liberal Democrats are able to break the pattern and gain more and more mandates. Throughout Europe, the multi-party system is growing. Many homogeneous batches are the European trend, and two-party or two-block systems also do not mobilise more voters. It is better to focus on this and create cooperation on that basis than to dream of simple solutions and simple fronts of the past. The lack and freedom are never suppressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1007	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1010	This government is the best and most capable of government, said the representative from the Left. Then she says she has great confidence in the people. That's what we're going to have. But the people have just spoken in elections and have little confidence in the Government, it shows the election results. One might have to put a more humble hold on what the people think about this government. What I primarily think about in relation to the fact that I did not think the government was the most capable is all the unemployed. More than 100,000 people are entirely unemployed and have taken different measures over many years. For the individual, there is a terrible situation, and there is waste of resources. Does the representative from the Left think that it is good political governance when there are so many who are available, and when there are so many hands that could be used in the work, to lead a policy that makes the unemployed unable to get work?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1019	The left has been concerned with local democracy, and when I hear this line, it's a little warning – I'm not familiar with this government that made choices, it was a local choice. I don't want to say that the left came particularly badly out of it either. But back to the real question. In fact, this government has done extremely much in terms of interest rates – the best thing in a long time – it has done a lot in relation to the dollar rate, and it has done a lot in relation to innovation. The tax base that the Workers' Party discriminates against us is a tax base which is given primarily to the unemployed, because the companies have been given the opportunity to hire them. The whole range of policies means that we are now able to reverse trends. The whole goes on both fiscal policy, economic policy, interest rate policy and crown policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1026	«The Government is fighting over the oil in the Barents Sea. The internal contradictions of the Government are increasing, after the Left is clearly saying no to oil drilling in the Barents Sea. Right wants to start extraction as soon as possible.’ This is a quote from the Evening Post on 28 September this year. Since the Right wants to start drilling, I expect that they will support our proposal No. 10, which reads: «The Government is authorised to open oil drilling in the Lofoten-Barents Sea.» But the question to the Left is: is there a recent impact assessment of these areas, and since the Left now says clearly no, is this impact assessment just a game for the gallery? Will the Left dictate the Right and Christian People's Party in this area, so that the Barents and Lofoten remain a closed area as long as we have this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1040	The left is, of course, the Sem statement on this point, where it is said that one should have an impact assessment that should be so thorough that we know all the consequences fully. That impact assessment is now at the hearing, and we're going to go into and look at all the pieces there. It's clear that the Left is fundamental to starting oil drilling in an area that is our main dish in terms of fish, and where we also have weather, light and other conditions that make it extremely difficult to do this in an environmentally safe way. We're going to look at the impact assessment that has come, and we're going to assume that all the consequences are going to be put on the table before you even go into some hasty decisions in this area. We have also expressed this basic position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1045	Norway has long been known as the country in the world where the difference between the rich and the poor has been least. But after the Left has joined the government, the differences between the rich and the poor in this country have increased faster than ever. There are two ways to increase the differences: one is to make the rich rich richer, and the other is to make the poorer. The government, with the Left well placed, has managed to do both. They have made the poor poorer by cutting income, and in the transfers that the unemployed get, they have made the poor poorer by testing even more in terms of welfare schemes – it doesn't just seem to be poor, one must actually be the poorest to be able to participate in these welfare schemes – and one has made the rich richer by giving the richest of the richest by dividend dividends. I find it fascinating how the logic in a way is that all the poor should be tested. Then my question to Skei Grande is: Is the Left for Norway to be a country that will still have small economic differences between the rich and the poor?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1052	The basic misunderstanding on the part of the SV is that the poor will necessarily be richer because the rich will be poorer. There's not necessarily any relationship in it. We are the government that has put forward the poverty package, and that has actually prioritised doing something for the very least, rather than making the major reforms that will certainly help all groups at the same time. The most important thing for us has been to prioritize those who are at the bottom, those who have the least, those who have been shut out in society. Let me give you an example: when SV was concerned with kindergarten policy, they were primarily concerned with making kindergarten cheaper, not getting kindergarten space for more. But for us, we're concerned that it has to be a good thing. When the good actually only goes to a few, it's more important that it reaches everyone than that it does the cheapest first.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1059	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1062	Politics should be about making everyday life safer and better for people. Unfortunately, the opposite is happening to many people now. Nearly 110 000 people are now without ordinary work. Many of these are young people and meet the adult life with nothing to do. For them, everyday life has not become either better or safer. Unemployment is about people. It's about those who don't get to sleep at night because they're insecure in the future, afraid they can't afford to pay the bill and keep the house and home. It's about kids who don't get to join other kids because their parents can't afford them, who can't go to school and don't go to the neighbor's boy's birthday. And it's about social networks and maritime images that break up. Arnulf Upperland said this: ‘You must not tolerate the wrong which does not affect you so deeply.’ I heard Prime Minister Bondevik earlier today say: ‘Having a job is a fundamental value’. We agree. But then I wonder why the government doesn't do more to get more people to work, because the situation is serious in many sectors, and there are many alarm bells ringing. And let me use the petroleum sector as an example. 250000 people are employed directly or indirectly in this sector. Many communities depend on these jobs, and – not least – the industry creates values and revenues that we depend on to ensure our well-being and to make enough money to pay pensions to those who come after us. Therefore predictability is needed, and therefore long-termity is also needed. Now the situation is that the activity is low. There's little. We see an increasing interest from foreign companies, and we see that a lot of good and high skills are about to disappear out of our country. Therefore, clarifications from the authorities are needed, both in relation to being able to take out more in existing fields, but also to give signals about new fields. In this context, I have noticed the disagreement in the Government – and that has also been reflected in today’s debate – about what is going to happen in the North Sea and the Barents Sea. Here we need rapid clarifications from the Government, as the industry needs, and as the bulk of the population has asked. I assume that the government will follow up this, and that we will soon have a case for treatment. Because if the government really believes that there is too much unemployment in Norway, much more needs to be done. Minister of Industry Gabrielsen has to find out the toolbox he has placed in a locker, locked the door again and lost the key to, because active, targeted action is needed! For me, it may seem that this government has made it one of its main issues to have a so-called neutral and passive industrial policy. But e.g. in my home country, Hedmark, very many of the companies – very many of the jobs in many district municipalities – had never seen the light of the day without a government and a growth that had actually been interested in using municipal food funds, the State's nutrition and district development funds, etc. It's where this government has chosen to cut, and that's why more active things have to happen in the future. Last winter was also very difficult for many people because they could not pay the electricity bill saying. Many became anxious. Someone turned off the heat even if they wanted to freeze, because they were afraid of not doing it. And the answer they got from the government was that this is no problem, you can go and get help in the social office. Of course it didn't work out. Now the question is, what does the government intend to do to avoid getting into this situation one more time? To me, the government seems to be one-sided rates of the deity. It is a very risky sport, which makes me think many people both this winter and the winters in the future will experience that unfortunately they are not able to pay the bill. It doesn't give a safer everyday life to most people!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1084	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1087	The government has defined job security and job creation as the main challenge. Now we see that the government's policy is on its way – optimism is on its way back. We see that Aker Kværner has been contracted because of the Snow White expansion, we see that SAS has got a large contract with Gardermoen, we hear that small businesses believe in increased sales, more employed and more profitability. There are consequences of government policy, both the reduction of taxes and taxes on business, and the introduction of a responsible economic policy that has reduced interest rates and the exchange rate. The Labour Party option has been so far that more labour market measures are sought, something more SND is sought and taxes are increased. My question to Sylvia Brustad is: Does she still think that higher taxes on business will bring more people into work?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1094	I think it's going to be amazing to listen to the representative, Sanner, who says that the government's policy is working. It's true that there are some points of light, but I think it's hard to stand here and say that the policy works, when it's been a very long time since we've had as high unemployment as we now have. There has been a dramatic increase in unemployment during this government. When 110,000 people are out of ordinary work, when youth unemployment increases for every day, when large parts of our industry have problems and many experience in the body and in the community that businesses are being laid down or are at risk of being laid down, I cannot agree that the policy is working. In my opinion, there are still major challenges. I also think it's amazing that the government is beating its chest and saying that the policy is working, when it's actually this government that has made sure that many of those who are available today get less life off – assuming that it should lead to faster jobs – while it's the opposite reasoning that is used in relation to those who have the most; they must have tax incentives to get to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1101	I have listened with some amazement to the representative Brustad's concerns about Norwegian industry and Norwegian jobs. I would like to remind you that there was not a single proposal from the Workers' Party when we dealt with the oil report in winter, and there was no support for our proposal to get this industry out of the trailer. Now, in the Workers' Party, you're like you're worried about lack of power and high power prices. However, it is a fact that with the Labour Party's policy over the past six to eight years, we would not have had a single kilowatt more than what we have today. The Labour Party has always been in the majority who have either rejected or reduced the strengths that we have dealt with. It was precisely the Jagland government that found that CO2 emissions were to be treated under the pollution law, and that meant that the gas generation stopped. Does what we hear now mean that the Workers' Party takes self-criticism for its paralysis of action in these questions? And how does the Workers' Party's so-called support for gas power plants relate to the party's active support for emission reductions?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1110	Now I do not know how the representative Vaksdal defines the word ‘action paralysis’, but one cannot accuse the Workers' Party of being paralysed for action, for example. in relation to force — the Workers’ Party, which is perhaps the party in Norway that has been most defeated because we have been involved in gas power plants. I also want to remind the representative Vaksdal that there was a working party government that gave three concessions to build gas power plants, which we believe was and is absolutely necessary to bring down the electricity prices. In the situation we are now in, where the gap is increasing between what we use of electricity, and what we produce, people will have to experience that, unfortunately, power prices are still rising. When we have a government that pays tribute to the gods and not to active action, that's what's going to happen. That's why it's important that we both get built-up gas plants, and that we get much more environmentally friendly energy into use. And there I would like to remind you that the Workers' Party went in too many millions of kroner of renewable energy at the latest during the budgetary procedure here in our house, which the Progress Party was opposed to. So we have nothing to be ashamed of compared to getting more power and trying to get the power prices down.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1117	Some of the issues that are problematic in relation to government cooperation with the Labour Party are EU issues and the EEA issue, but also environmental policy. The same thing is that Sylvia Brustad is pressing for the government not to be so careful about the impact that you should have in the Barents Sea, but make sure that a matter comes up quickly, so that you can get it started. This is in conflict with, among other things, SV stands for, and it is regrettable that one repeats this tempo need. My first question is: shall a build-up and proceed in the Barents Sea, whatever the consequences say? The second question concerns what the representative Brustad was about in relation to electricity. SV has challenged the Government with concrete measures for less power dependence, more to wind and bio industry, more to water well heat, etc. Will the Labour Party participate in such a constructive track, or will they continue to compete with the Progress Party for an environmental hosting?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1126	First, I want to take up the question of the Barents Sea. The Labour Party has not taken a decision on what is going to happen there, but I think we all, including SV, do ourselves a bear service if we believe that investigating for years will solve these conflicts, the different opinions and the major challenges we have in relation to this. Of course, the working party is also concerned with the environment. But what we have said, and which we agreed on – and I hope we still agree with the government parties – was that the situation in this sector is so worrying and so serious that it is important to clarify quickly what will happen next, also in relation to the northern seas. I expect the government to follow up, and I expect that we will get a case to deal with the Storting about it in the course of this year, as the majority in the Storing agreed. I would also like to remind the representative of Langeland that the oil and environment situation is that, throughout all the years we have had oil operations in Norway, oil and the environment are largely in a position to go hand in hand. That doesn't mean I'm shooting what's going to happen north, but that's a fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1135	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1138	Norwegian business and Norwegian economy have been through a very difficult year, mainly because of the difficult situation in the international economy, but also because of high wage growth over several years, high interest rates and strong dollar rates. It has hit many jobs and businesses very hard. But luckily, we see clear signs that it is beginning to shine, and that Norwegian industry is once again gaining competitiveness. We've seen examples in the last few days. Aker Kværner got a big contract for the Snow White expansion of SEK 1.5 billion; it will ensure many jobs along our coast. I would also like to mention the contract that SAS got regarding the maintenance of the MD-80 fleet on the Gardermoen. What's exciting and interesting is that it was just like that. these two companies that last year and through winter had major problems. Now we see that the same trade unions, the same companies, are doing well in tough international competition. This gives cause for optimism. Although the importance of skilled and efficient professional environments cannot be overestimated, the Government has contributed through systematic efforts to improve the competitiveness of industry. In the last two years, the level of taxation has been reduced by about $20 billion. Most of these reliefs have gone to business. And since the 2003 state budget was presented last autumn, Norway’s Bank has reduced interest rates from 7 to 2.5 p.m. The difference in interest rates between Norway and EU countries is thus virtually eliminated. At the same time, the exchange rate has declined. Lower interest rates alone mean between 20 and 25 billion dollars in lower interest rates for Norwegian companies. Only for the fishing companies does this mean DKK 2.5 billion at a lower cost. We who are in politics today, we are politicians in the country of opportunity. Norway has both the ability to succeed and the ability to fail. And we stand at my discretion in a crossroads in industrial policy, where we can choose between three main devices. We can resume a policy of reducing competitive business. There is a line in which higher and higher taxes on business create increased scope for growth in the public sector. This line says no to reforms that increase access to labour and no to better organise public sector resources. It is a policy that increases dependence on fluctuating oil revenues and makes us totally unprepared on the day oil revenues fail. The result of such a policy is reduced value creation, lower well-being and increased unemployment. So one would come to a place that no one wanted – but the consequences of the individual choices we made led us inexorably there. The second main device is to pursue an expansive fiscal policy. It is a policy in which all good wishes are fulfilled, wishes which, on their own, are considered to be indulgent, but which together undermines the credibility of economic policy. There is a policy where wage growth will come out of control, where interest and exchange rates are back in old rents, and where Norwegian companies are losing in international competition. It is a policy that also has uprooted parts of the Stortinget. The last option, which is an alternative of the Cooperative Government, combines a responsible economic policy with a reduced tax burden on enterprises. Together with moderate wage developments, this provides competitive framework conditions, more equity for new investments, high-growth enterprises and more jobs. According to some previous speakers, the impression can be that businesses want tax increases, that businesses are the most busy of a few million extra dollars in public transfers, and that the best thing to do is to have some additional places of action. Since the co-operation administration took over, I have met hundreds, yes thousands of business managers, and I can assure anyone who may be in doubt that it is not these priorities that are prominent. It is and will be the basic framework conditions that really matter whether we have profitable jobs. That is what is one of the main challenges of industrial policy. The other is how we're going to be able to release the joy of creation into society. How should we facilitate more innovation, more new products and more business start-ups? As a first step you need to find good answers to these questions, the government will present a plan for a comprehensive innovation policy later this month. In order to trigger increased research efforts and innovation in private enterprises, we have introduced a separate tax credit for research and development. So far, a total of NOK 10 billion has been allocated to projects. This applies to thousands of Norwegian small and medium-sized enterprises. We have also received signals that there are rules to prevent innovation. This is addressed through the Action Plan for a simpler Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1157	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1160	It was very interesting to hear the Minister of Industry's comments. A number of things have happened. It is the great concern for the increased unemployment that we must focus on, which must be given priority. With regard to the Workers' Party and the Government, we largely agree that we must be careful with the expansion of the financial system. It is important to have targeted actions. It's important to see what's happened, and what's going to happen in the future. I would like to ask the Minister for Industry a specific matter. Let's take the two communities in the West that are now threatened by-- yeah, I'll almost say-- extermination, Årdal and Høyanger. Hydro has helped and provided many jobs in these communities. Hydro is now threatening direct deposition. The big community has arranged for a solid energy production for Hydro to have these framework conditions in place and grow in these communities. Is it now that Hydro can just turn around, sell out the industrial contracts and shut down the jobs? What initiatives will the Minister of Industry take?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1172	There is no doubt that communities both in Årdal and in Høyanger, and in part also in Karmøy, have significant challenges if Hydro lar ends up making investments and renewing the capacity that is today with the so-called Søderberg technology and does not invest in new production capacity. It will mean a weakening of these industrial environments. What you have to look at is, of course, what's the reason for that. We're working on that. I have challenged Hydro in a letter in which I ask myself specifically: what is the reason for the decisions made? And what are the policy conditions that we can possibly do about? The issue is related to the energy production that is currently taking place there, and where State power contracts have been awarded, and what is going to happen before these phases, from the time they are shut down. Then it is well that these contracts cannot in any way be transferred automatically. But it will be the Minister of Energy who will take a stand on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1179	At the end of the year, the Council of State mentioned the action plan for a simpler Norway. It is under the pressure we have against small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, and Norwegian municipalities that are burdened with enormous free-of-charge work on the part of the authorities. This is nothing new. It was recorded during the Bondevik I administration, and it has been followed up under Bondevik II. But the level of ambition on which the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade is committed is far too low, we believe in the Progress Party. The load should be reduced by 100 per year. year, i.e. between 1 pst. and 2 pst. of the total load. We do not understand that the traders are being pushed down in this way when we have a Minister of Industry based on the Right, that they do not lie down at a higher level of ambition and make this a competitive advantage for Norwegian business. A former Minister of Industry promised to reduce by 25 pst. in two years. Will we experience something similar from our current Minister for Economic Affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1186	To take the last first, the answer is no. It won't be such an ambition because we saw how it went. It's not that simple. But we have put forward an action plan for a simpler Norway, which we follow very closely. We have set up a forum where representatives of the employees and employers' side and all the trade organisations are involved, where they come up with very concrete proposals for things we can change. So I've said that until we can get everything over to electronic reporting, we have an ambition of 100 annuals in reduction per. years. And there we are. We know that according to the project we are running, all the reporting from the business community should be able to go electronically by the end of 2004, and that is only when we have a severe reduction in the burden on the individual company. How many hundreds, maybe thousands, of years is not good to say, but the total load is 7,500, so there's a lot to take off. But it's actually in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1191	I have two questions for the Minister of Industry. The first one goes to the SEK 1.5 billion allocated to the underprivileged areas. Is this money in the process of being ‘launched into life’, so that they benefit the economically deprived areas? Question no. 2 is a little bit to follow up on what came from the Workers' Party. We have some industrial communities that are struggling violently. The unemployment rate is high, they are outside the scope of the SND, they are also outside the compensation schemes when the employer fee is removed, and we know that there is little capital in the area. Does the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Government have a plan on what to do with those areas? Do you have any plans going on to help these industrial communities, where very many are nervous about the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1202	The first question was related to these SEK 1.5 billion – it is the district billion and four seed funds with associated loss provisions. The remaining pieces, which have not been adopted in budgetary terms, shall not be much imaginative to imagine that one will find in the budget, which comes on Wednesday. Point 2: For other industrial sites in Norway that are outside the areas where rural policy instruments are available, a plan is requested. A lot of people are nervous, says Ryan. Well, now it's not all of these individual districts for which we have made a unique plan, but we have an overall plan to improve the conditions of competition for Norwegian business. I explained that in my article, and it seems definitely to work. Otherwise, President, I think it's short time with 1 minute on the lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1211	The president thinks the line changes are going well, there won't be so much outside talk! The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1216	Many have expressed some concern about the increase in unemployment in Norway. The Prime Minister was first out. Later, Jens Stoltenberg has also stated that the Workers' Party is concerned. I'm asking certain questions about whether they're as concerned as they're trying to express. One thing is that unemployment is increasing in Norway, and that the rule of action, interest rates and exchange rates are being used as a defence for increasing unemployment. The second is the challenges facing our unemployed and our labour force as the EU expands from 1 May next year. These challenges are absent from this debate. I am concerned that neither the Prime Minister nor Jens Stoltenberg are trying at least to get a debate on whether Norway is going to go on transitional arrangements or make other preparations to meet the potential increase in labour immigration that had to come after 1 May next year. I record that the Solberg Government Council is doubtful whether we will have an increasing labour migration after the enlargement from May 1st next year. Of course, it is not good enough to believe, when we know that in the ten new countries entering the EU and in EEA cooperation next year, there are 75 million people. They have unemployment rates ranging from 10-20 pst. We are well aware that many workers from these countries, especially seasonal workers, have experience working in Norway in agriculture, construction, etc. Therefore, there is great reason to believe that labour immigration from these countries will increase next year. Germany, Austria and Finland have requested transitional arrangements of 2 to 7 years, simply because they want to regulate this more fully themselves. Everyone understands – and so does the Progress Party – that we need to take on board the fact that these countries become members of the European Union – and come under the EEA Agreement. This cannot prevent the Government and the Norwegian Government from trying to find transitional arrangements that will allow us to prepare for this. Denmark now assesses different ways of meeting immigration at work. They have not asked for transitional arrangements, but they consider a number of legislative changes to protect existing welfare systems. An example of this is child-responsiveness. Instead of paying children in cash, it may be considered as a tax relief or deduction. Norway needs to assess these challenges. The train is about to go now, as several warn against today. From May 1st next year it's too late. We can't come back afterwards, when the consequences come over us in full moon, and require transitional arrangements. There are two challenges that lie clearly there. One is the distorted competitive situation that is related, for example, to: Polish companies with Polish workers come to Norway for shorter or longer periods and compete — at lower costs, of course, with Polish wages. Everyone wants to see Norwegian construction workers lose that fight. The second challenge is to provide health and care services. Today, our carers are struggling with their lives because we do not facilitate them, and there will be nothing better when we open up to health and care workers from these countries next year. So to the social arrangements we have, which are very good, and on which there's already a lot of pressure, both in relation to sick pay and the day-to-day pay system. It's too late to come in June/July next year, when we see that the consequences may be worse than the government believes today. That is why the Progress Party is promoting a proposal here today, which I hope the Stortingen will agree to, so that we can at least have an assessment of the possible consequences of increased labour migration.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1236	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1239	I would also like to dwell on the question of immigration, a question that I know the representative Sandberg is concerned about. The main weapon, especially against the crime committed in the immigrant communities, is to provide immigrants with both work and school space, and contact with the local environment may be the most important thing. At the bottom is to know the language. The Progress Party has used several occasions in Stortinget, including: in budgetary proceedings, and also in the recent public debate, to highlight the resistance to a force majeure in relation to language training for new nationals. The Progress Party also contributed to a significant decrease in Norwegian training for asylum seekers. What is the reason why the Progress Party is unwilling to participate in this important fight against crime committed by immigrants?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1246	Interestingly, the representative Storberget mentions Norwegian education for immigrants. I remember the first budgets where the Progress Party made proposals that we had to have compulsory Norwegian training for immigrants. Then the answer to us was that we stigmatized the immigrants, we barricaded the immigrants. We continued the fight. In April last year, the Progress Party saw a total increase in the introduction of compulsory Norwegian education, community training and labour training for immigrants next year. That was the result! With regard to the effort that Storberget now refers to, I take it for granted that it is about the leakage that has come from the budget, about NOK 1 billion in the budget in 2004 for Norwegian education. Here I will take a reservation, I will see the details of the proposal first. I've understood that it's going to be 40,000 people a year. If you take $1 billion and you divide by 40,000 people, you get a significant sum per person. Immigrants who are then to attend Norwegian training. At the same time, the Progress Party believes that people who have lived in Norway for a long time should have their own responsibility and an interest in learning Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1253	On 29 September this year, the Per Sandberg of the Progress Party said that he would propose electronic labelling and monitoring of asylum seekers in order to prevent their disappearance. Nevertheless, according to Sandberg, this is a step on the way to the main goal: full internment. The proposal is, at best, an expression that Per Sandberg was not at all involved in the history hours at school. The representative Sandberg calls for the labelling and detention of asylum seekers because they use their human right to apply for protection. He considers asylum seekers to be criminals until the opposite is proven. The right to apply for asylum and to move freely within a country is enshrined in the UN Declaration of Human Rights, Articles 13 and 14. My questions are: Will the Advance Party break fundamental principles of the rule of law on the presumption of innocence and propose the labelling and detention of asylum seekers without law and judgment? Secondly, will the party make proposals contrary to the UN Declaration of Human Rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1263	None of the proposals put forward by the Progress Party, and none of the proposals that the Progress Party may wish to make, are contrary to any convention. It's obvious. If I am allowed to comment on electronic monitoring: I see that the debate has completely taken off. Of course, the government parties and the representative Eriksen are cheering up on it. For anyone who has registered what Sandberg has said in that debate has recorded that this is talking about electronic surveillance, no marking. Pulling the debate there that we are talking about labelling, I understand that I am in favour of those who are critical of the immigration policy of the Progress Party. But then it is that in a number of countries and in a number of states in America, this is in place in relation to monitoring criminals. In fact, in Tampa, Florida, the Salvation Army is running electronic surveillance of criminals. Comparing the treatment of criminal asylum seekers with what may have happened 50 years ago, I think I'm completely unheard of.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1270	We in SV have many proposals and consider transitional arrangements in the context of EEA enlargement. But I would like to hear what kind of proposals for transitional arrangements Per Sandberg has, because today's main problem in working life is social dumping. It happens regardless of whether we expand east. Today it is done with subcontractors who have employees outside the Norwegian border. That part is impossible to take by means of transitional arrangements. This can only be stopped by strengthening the Labour Inspectorate and the rights of workers, in line with the proposals made by the LO selection. Then I have a question on a point in the Progress Party programme, where they say that you should not have more than 1000 non-Western immigrants. So last year there were 750 quota refugees – there were several, but that's what the Progress Party voted for this year – and there were 322 people who got asylum. Then you've already filled the quota, and then my question is: is the Progress Party going to say no to all family reunification, or are they going to introduce a racist legislation that only opens up to people in the Western cultural sphere?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1277	In the case of transitional arrangements, where appropriate, the publication of collective bargaining agreements in order to combat social dumping, it is precisely what the Progress Party is asking for in its proposal under consideration here today. We need to consider whether we are going to have permanent transitional arrangements for two to seven years, as other countries have wanted, or whether we are going to put the effort into protecting collective agreements, the working environment and such things. That is what we are asking for here, because that debate has not existed in Norway. The only thing that has existed is that this government has said that we do not want transitional arrangements and that we do not want any preparations for what is called social dumping. So even though there has been a decrease in a government sample that actually concluded that these challenges are going to be giants, the government has not concluded anything but that. With regard to general immigration and family reunification in Norway, the representative Holmås is very familiar with all the proposals of the Progress Party to tighten up and prevent illegal immigration into Norway, which, after all, is almost 85 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1284	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1287	I am pleased that the Prime Minister today expressed the ambition that Norway should be an environmental policy country. It requires action, it requires change, and it requires a reverse operation, because we are not in any way in an international context today a strong environmental policy priority country. Why we're not, there could probably be a lot of explanations for that. But one important explanation is that the Christian People's Party has married the Right Party and the Advance Party and received a majority. If you want to become an environmental policy priority country, you have to isolate the Progress Party – an active environmental hosting, as they are today. One of the areas in which we are unable to be a leading country is public transport. It's sad that the statistics for the first six months of this year show that the number of collective trips goes down in all the big cities, and that after a election campaign two years ago, when one was handed over to each other about how great public transport was going to be. Now I am pleased with the budgetary leakage that has occurred, where the Government proposes something that SV has been promoting for many years, namely that collective societies will receive a small amount of VAT that actually gives them a huge tax relief. I'm glad. But I dare not cheer too early, for there is no one in this room who yet knows who to settle the budget with. This is a tax haven, as it appears that the Progress Party is opposed, because it benefits the environment. Another area we haven't managed to be in the first place is transporting goods by train. Norway is going down there, while we see that many EU countries have large programmes to invest in it. But when you have to settle your budgets with the Advance Party, there's not much to bet on on trains. No, then there will be privatisation of passenger traffic instead. It's not that that's what's the main challenge for the railway today; it's that we have a railway that's too bad and that we have to invest up if we're going to have some chance of becoming a first country. It amazed me greatly last week when our Prime Minister was able to create uncertainty about whether we in Norway were going to meet our international climate obligations. I thought that was strange. Now I had hoped that we would have a clarification today – where it is clearly said that a significant part of Norway's commitments will be made at home, and that the purchase of allowances and, if necessary, the use of the other flexible mechanisms in the Kyoto Agreement must be a complement. I hope that during this debate someone from the government parties will make it clear that this is the current Norwegian climate policy, and nothing else. If you're going to settle the climate policy with the Progress Party, you're having a hard time, because they don't even think the climate noise is real. On the other hand, they are proposing today in the Chamber that we subsidise the construction of gaseous power plants. SV has stretched out the government's hand and said that we like to make an energy policy deal, we make a deal where we can bet on alternative energy sources and bet on waterborne heat, and make it so that people don't end up in a power trap again in the winter. The main environmental policy challenge in which we want the world to focus on us is the issue of opening up to oil production in the Barents Sea. The United States said no to further oil production in Alaska less than a year ago. Three Republicans crossed the floor and voted with the Democrats, and it was a majority against. American oil companies like to go up to the Arctic, and I've also seen that they can have an opportunity in the Barents Sea. The consequences of oil drilling in the Barents Sea are great for the vulnerable ecology there — it is also about large climate emissions. The Bondevik I government dropped the issue of gaseous pollutants. It was about emissions of 2.1 million tonnes of CO2, or 600 000 Norwegian passenger cars, which it was compared to. According to the impact assessment presented by the Government itself, opening up to oil production in the Barents Sea will mean an increase in CO2 emissions of 3.2 million tonnes, i.e. more than polluting gas power plants. There is no way to achieve this if you are to be an environmental policy country at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1302	For the Christian People's Party, it is a primary objective to ensure the settlement and value creation and viable communities throughout the country. The main means of achieving this is good infrastructure and opportunities for stable work at a reasonable distance from home. Local and regional economic development is therefore the number of jobs. 1 with regard to viable districts. The Christian People's Party is committed to further developing the role of the county council as a regional development actor. Cooperation between local business, municipalities and county councils is a prerequisite for successful start-ups. The Christian People's Party will be a driver of active district policy. We will strengthen the local economy, facilitate local self-government, and continue the work of relocating jobs to the districts. The District Commission is at work, and in the Christian People's Party we await comprehensive, forward-looking proposals for the development of the districts when the Commission comes to its conclusions. The differentiated employer fee has been one of the pillars of Norwegian district policy. It is therefore very understandable that the concerns that have arisen in this area, not least in my home country, Northern Ireland, after ESA has pushed forward the solution we are facing now. The government has made a great effort to find compensatory measures, and in the Christian People's Party we are concerned that all the stones should be turned to find a fair refund, crown for crown, to the areas affected. The government has made a great effort to preserve the action zone, and important district industries such as fisheries and agriculture are to be excluded. We've managed to bring down the interest rate and the interest rate. Now we also need to find accurate compensation for the loss of a differentiated employer's fee. Oil activity is heading northwards. Now the Barents Sea is on its way. In the Christian People's Party, we eagerly await the conclusions after the consultation round of the impact assessment, and so far we have the light on yellow and follow the precautionary principle. Renewable resources in the sea must have the right of way, and safety must be maximum before opening up oil activity in the most vulnerable areas from Lofoten and northwards. We see that the oil industry already has the light on green and will start. The environmental organisations have the light of red and accuse the government of undemocratic driving in the process. In the Christian People's Party, we are prepared to engage in dialogue with the various interests, and the Government's conclusion is likely to come before Christmas. But if, after careful assessment, we start oil activity in the north, it should primarily benefit the region. For the Christian People's Party, it is a prerequisite that the oil activity should lead a vitamin injection to the Nordic business community. We expect jobs both on land and on the sea, and we assume that there is a commercial fund dedicated to the development of industry in the region. Coastal communities in northern Norway have traditionally been built around coastal waters’ fishing resources. Oil extraction in the north can only be seen as a re-introduction. The high growth potential of coastal communities in the future lies in the further development of the fisheries and aquaculture industry. The Christian People's Party will give priority to research and development in the marine sector, in particular with a view to enabling the fish industry on land to face increasing competition from low-cost countries. Strict budgets with a subsequent fall in interest rates and a lower exchange rate are a step in the right direction. Stable raw material access is a prerequisite for ensuring jobs in the fishing industry. New rules on universality for cod trawls are in place. Today's individual supply conditions shall be continued, but with a subsidiary universal service obligation within three regions if the undertaking having the rights does not wish to purchase the raw material. This will provide a better basis for production activities in North Norway and prevent the movement of fish southwards for further processing. The structural measures in the coastal fleet adopted in spring will help to increase the quota and improve the profitability of each fisherman. The measures are voluntary and the territorial framework ensures resource allocation between the regions. In the Christian People's Party, we consider the new delivery obligations for cod trawls and the county bonding of quota allocation in the coastal fleet as a first step towards increased regional control of fishing resources. Finally, Norway has proud traditions of fishing, fishing and farming, and in the Christian People's Party we are concerned that these industries will continue to contribute to employment and housing along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1328	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1331	Traffic was central to the Sem Declaration. The effort should now be increased. After that, it's only been sad. The stakes have been reduced. Mr. Bondevik didn't say anything about social relations today. Gabrielsen didn't say anything about social relations either. There seems to be a forgotten area for this government. There are four-five lines in the throne, very little binding, and the representative Sahl costs himself two-three sentences on transportation. This is little in line with the view of the representative Sahl and I meet in the country, and it gives me concern. Are we going to have a breach of promises in this sector in the future as well, and are we going to be charged with cost-benefit calculations? Then I have to ask, why does the government use 8 pst? interest on loans when calculating whether there is a good cost-benefit in a road project? Does this government want to count the trade sector as a whole?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1338	I think that the representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and I reasonably agree that transportation is a hugely important policy area when we're out meeting people. In the Christian People's Party, we are also concerned with achieving the best possible result for the field of transport. But as the representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt is also fully aware, both the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party have agreed that we need tight budgets to bring down interest rates and crown prices to save jobs. In this way we can now sum up very good results. With regard to the budget that comes, we have to wait until Wednesday to see what kind of a transport effort is there. But the government has given priority to improving road safety. The government has also prioritised increasing efforts on public transport, and I expect both parts to be followed up in the budget that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1345	The representative Sahl repeats something that the government has often said about the issue of opening the Barents Sea, namely that the matter is on a yellow light. Now I don't have a car and therefore I rarely drive and have been a little stubborn in the sense of what this means, until I recently borrowed the car from my sister and drove for a while. Then I discovered in the intersections that systematically every time it only turns yellow, it turns red. If it is to be green, it must be red and the yellow light at the same time. Can the representative Sahl confirm that I have understood the image of the Christian People's Party correctly – that it is pending the red light that the matter is put on yellow? Or have I ever misunderstood?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1351	What I can at least clarify here to the representative Heidi Sørensen is that when we have the light on yellow, we have realized what yellow light means. It means for the Christian People's Party, which I tried to clarify in my post, that the renewable resources have the right to drive. This means that if the impact assessment and the hearing opinions that have now been issued show that there are areas of the Barents Sea where the consequences are so great for renewable resources that we are facing a disaster, the Christian People's Party will not be there and open up to it. But that doesn't mean we'll say no to all the oil activity in the Barents Sea. Don't say that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1356	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1359	The Labour Party will, in its work on the budget and the proposals we are making in the Grand Duchy, establish a policy of social and economic cohesion, combating unemployment and poverty and developing basic welfare benefits for all. That's why we want a health care service that provides people with security both in terms of health services in our municipalities and in terms of the offer in our hospitals. We want a decent care for the elderly on the basis that the services are the responsibility of the public. We want a drug care where addicts don't get tossed between different levels. We want our disabled people to be able to participate in working and social life based on their wishes and opportunities. The working party places these common tasks far higher than continued tax reliefs to the high income groups. Providing people with health care is one of the core tasks of the welfare state. For this reason, the Labour Party proposed a permanent reform such as: has provided a much smoother and better medical coverage throughout the country. Now very few medical positions are available in District Norway, while only a few years ago we had 600 unaccompanied medical positions. When, in 2001, the Labour Party saw the need to propose a comprehensive health reform for hospitals and specialist health services, the situation in Norway was that we were among the countries in Europe that used the most in healthcare per year. The population, while we still had unacceptable long waiting lists, long queues and corridor Asians. The results show that these unworthy conditions have been significantly reduced. This is great and shows a new epoch and a new gift in the hospitals. This has happened without structural interventions and closures of health services. However, we still see a growing concern in the population because some health professionals are planning to change both in emergency services and in food supply. Both I and the Workers' Party are concerned that healthcare is underfunded, which in turn can drive restructuring and closures, which do not provide better health services. The Labour Party pointed this out in the spring during the treatment of the revised national budget and proposed more money to the hospitals. The problem is also that the Government has not provided the Storting with the necessary information about the actual financial position of health businesses. The working party agrees and agrees that individual decisions in health establishments are not directly brought into the Storting. However, the Labour Party asked in the context of the revised national budget in spring that the Stortinget should be given the opportunity to review adopted structural changes before implementing changes. This applies, inter alia, to: Ambulance, food supply and emergency response. This occupies many communities, and it occupies the Workers' Party. In this debate, the spokespersons and women of the government parties have so far been silenced on how to get a decent care for the elderly. Is this an indication that the Government does not have a common policy, as far as right-wing representatives in particular have encouraged municipalities to outsource and privatise the care of the elderly? The tracks from such policies both in our own country and abroad are frightening. I also see that the Right-People want cash support, so that the elderly can buy care services. This is similar to the Medicine of the Advance Party, as it also emerges from the proposals of the Progress Party in the Chamber today, that the State should print out the popular news so that Grandma will go shopping after care. Such systems mean that the care you receive also depends on your own wallet. Those who can pay the most may get the best care. This undermines public care and community solutions. Such a system worries me. We do not want the commercialisation of care for the elderly. Commercialisation means that owners are required to make money, among other things. by having fewer employees. The older often needs, are more warm hands, more at night, more at weekend, more nurses and help nurses, more activists, ergo- and physiotherapists. We also believe that we need guard badges. For this reason, the Workers' Party has called for the setting up of senior officials in each municipality to provide guidance to patients, relatives, employees and others on their rights and to assist in reporting unacceptable or defective situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1385	Last week's newspaper survey shows that people are dissatisfied with the nation in which the United Nations has ranked the world's best country to live. This feeling is the Advance Party and SV the foremost to create – no one else. The study presented by the nurses’ association in the election campaign on the state of care for the elderly led the Progress Party and SV to throw themselves into the media and blackmail the situation in the care of the elderly. You almost got the impression that there was not a single person in Norwegian nursing homes who got the shower and brushed his teeth more than once a month. Politicians in this room have been involved as singers in a hula of discontent. In my opinion, it has to end. It's going to be totally wrong when elected representatives make a sense to people that it's really bad, and that you should be scared to get old in Norway. The reality is not like that. Towards the end of the election campaign, a number of nurses went out into the media themselves and said that they did not recognize themselves in the picture that was drawn by their own workplace. Many elderly people in nursing homes are doing very well, and the few need to be afraid of getting old in Norway. We as elected representatives should not use our time to scare the voters unnecessarily. There is no doubt that there are still major challenges in Norway, but people do not deserve the impression that they are so much bigger and more dramatic than is the case. But one can also suspect SV and the Advance Party to be worthy of drawing such a picture. Because those parties have money for absolutely everything. Every week the new proposal comes that costs money, without saying anything about where to cut it. Even as a heterophilic Right-Representative, I have to admit that I am sometimes very charmed by Kristin Halvorsen. When she talks about how bad it is in Kommune-Norway, where the kids go to healthful schools, where the elderly are systematically woken up in the middle of the night to care for, and where the poor get poorer and the rich get richer, then it's almost like that I also think that the only solution must be to fill in all the billions that SV has to pay. But when love has settled and I get to think about it, it becomes clear that there is something fundamentally wrong with Kristin Halvorsen's and SV's policies. Their solutions are always the same: 1st@item: inlistbox More money is needed.2. The public is the only answer. I think it is a pity that SV does not believe in and trust the individual, the private initiative and the creative force. That is what is the very basis for creating jobs, which in turn provides the tax revenue that guarantees well-being. SV speaks of the need to combat unemployment, including: was the representative Lysbakken inside youth unemployment earlier today. But their policies will increase unemployment. If SV had spent as much money as they want, we would have had a dramatic increase in interest rates and the exchange rate, and several companies had been cut off and jobs lost. In this area, the Workers' Party is not so much better either. When the Workers' Party itself was in government, the party acted more responsibly in relation to economic policy. Today, we experience that the former, serious Minister of Finance Stoltenberg is running from chance to opportunity and is taking part in a irresponsible policy of promises. In more and more cases, the Workers' Party hangs on SV and the Advance Party. Their own proposals to combat unemployment are limited to even more labour market measures, which is a short-term solution which in the longer term does not give rise to increased value creation and employment. The government has already put in place many measures to get unemployed back to work. There are no more such measures we need. Norwegian business owners are quite clear on what is important for them to get more people to work: predictable framework conditions low interest rates and stable low cost competitive tax regime The working party does nothing to prevent unforeseeable business, rather ensuring that there is fewer investment in new business in Norway, by reintroducing the dividend tax and maintaining the wealth tax. This is a short-term policy that undermines a sustainable business. The government has chosen to pursue a long-term and predictable policy. We're not tempted to choose the short-term and populist solutions. Of course, it's a burden, but it's the right policy, not least to get more people working.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1426	Norwegian policies are increasingly influenced by decisions taken by international organisations. National and international policies are intertwined. The national space for action will be smaller, mainly as a result of the EU and the WTO. The Minister’s strange statements on weekends that he will assess membership of an ‘EU light’ illustrate the need for a thorough EU debate. There is nothing to suggest that the EU is moving towards less integration – rather the opposite. There will be more and more union. EU Heads of State have used the weekend to discuss common president, common constitution, strengthening the common defence and security policy, foreign policy, further use of majority decisions and more power for the populous countries. The debate on an EU à la carte, where countries can participate in the parts of EU cooperation they think they are the most useful, is a debate that one held at the end of the 1990s. This debate has been taken over by events related to the East Enlargement and the Convention. The EU has made it clear in the enlargement process that exemptions for major areas such as EMU are not applicable. That Prime Minister Bondevik draws up hypothetical debates in which developments prove to be contrary to what he wants, puts not only Bondevik, but also the Christian People's Party in a strange light. If Prime Minister Bondevik actually believes that Norway should become a member of the EU, he should have the courage to say so. Then we can have a real debate about what EU membership actually means to the people's regime, for our ability to combat unemployment, for the welfare of which many of us are concerned, what consequences a membership will have for Norwegian districts, for fisheries, for agriculture. This is a matter for discussion, but giving people an idea that Norway can become an EU member, but only take part in those parts of the cooperation that serve Norwegian interests directly, is throwing blues at people's eyes. However, it is obvious that we need a debate in Norway on developments in the EU, both to clarify misunderstandings and to get our leaders to take clear positions on which to deal. There is also a need for a debate on developments in the World Trade Organisation. The centre party has intended and will continue to believe that global guidelines for international trade are good. But international trade is not an end in itself. One has gone too far if one ends up in the paradoxical situation that a stock of guidelines that only protects the trade interests of the strongest countries. The basic idea of the WTO was that one should have rules that would prevent the strongest from getting along. Therefore, it is time to ask some basic questions: which sectors are suitable for liberalisation? Which one should we keep outside? Is education, health and food to be regarded as a commodity in the same way as nails? How far should one go within the different sectors when choosing to liberalise? How are we going to make it possible for trade to actually contribute to the development of the poorest countries? The Central Party hopes that the WTO Ministerial Meeting in Cancun will be a time-table in terms of uncritical liberalisation and in terms of power relations within the WTO. Norway needs to see the collapse in Cancun as an opportunity to start with blank papers and get the negotiations on a new and better track. Dramatics is by far the largest in agriculture. The draft negotiation, which is now on the table, is very unbalanced and became worse and worse during the Cancun meetings. The agreement favours unilaterally the large agricultural exporting countries that produce industrially. Countries that produce small scale and environmentally friendly are losers. The government must now use months until negotiations start again, in a good way. Not only must it go back to its original positions, but it must also recognise and take the consequences that Norway’s desire to ensure its own food production can well be combined with many of the developing countries’ wishes. The key to the Norwegian agricultural strategy must be to link alliances with other countries that rely on imports to feed their population and want to maintain their own food production through customs protection. This is true of a large proportion of developing countries. What we need now is a debate on which WTO we are going to have in the future, so that we can maintain the WTO as a legitimate organisation. Too many countries now question the legitimacy of the organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1435	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1438	The representative, Haga, almost ridicules the position that it is possible to take part of European cooperation without taking part in it. But that is exactly what we in Norway are doing today through the EEA Agreement. We are fully involved in the internal market. We participate in educational cooperation, and we participate in cultural cooperation, gender equality cooperation and research cooperation in line with all other EU countries, while not being a full member. Now I know that there is an almost unholy alliance between the most eager EU opponents and the most eager Europeans to produce EEA membership as an EU membership without any influence. But that's not right. We do not participate in the Common Sea. We do not participate in agricultural policy. We do not participate in EMU, and we participate, for example. not with a common position within the UN and other international organisations. But the Central Party has then concluded that they will leave the EEA and out of all the areas of cooperation in which we participate through that agreement. My question to Haga will then be: is there any part of Europe's cooperation in which the Central Party would be able to participate at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1443	The centre party has always been concerned about and will always be concerned about having good relations with what is referred to here as Europe. I would now like to say that Norway is a part of Europe, and that is what we are supposed to be. That is why we also need a good partnership with European countries, and we need a good partnership with the EU. We want to have that even without having an EEA agreement that is politically an absolutely unsustainable housekeeper's contract. There are alternatives to an EEA agreement that are quite correct, as is pointed out here, both the yes-page and the no-page have largely agreed that is too bad an agreement for Norway. The contract form is called Swiss model. We can't copy it, but we can take it as a starting point to make an agreement with the EU that is far better than what we have now. So the answer to the question is that we're going to cooperate with our European neighbours in a close and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1448	The last replication is interesting, first of all, considering that the two parties to which Trond Giske and Åslaug Haga belong have the greatest dream of reigning together as soon as possible. For Norwegian voters, it will be an interesting bingo who draws the Ministry of Foreign Affairs into such cooperation, for one is going to cancel the contract immediately, if I have understood correctly, and the other is waiting on it to avoid something that might be even worse, namely membership. Now Åslaug Haga found that there is becoming more and more union. I guess that's why Marit Arnstad referred to the 'EU Union' for security reasons. The center party is experts on butter in bottle. In fact, what is interesting is to get Åslaug Haga to clarify how she imagines that Norway should be able to participate on an equal footing with all the other countries in Europe, including the former Eastern European countries, if at the same time she refers to the EU as the Black Death.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1455	Let me first answer the question relating to the EEA and, where appropriate, government cooperation. In fact, the Central Party has been in government with the Christian People's Party and the Left, and the representative of the Wage knows very well that the Christian People's Party and the Left are very strongly attached to the EEA Agreement. This way, it won't create any further problems compared to what we've seen in the past. The central party acknowledges that it per cent. Today, there is no majority in the Storting to terminate the EEA Agreement. It should have been, and you should look at other possibilities. Here you should show a little more openness and creativity in relation to that question. But there we are not today. The Central Party wishes to cooperate with European countries on the basis of cooperation that links countries, but without transnationality as a principle. The problem with the EU per year Today, it is a system that is based on an increasing degree of supranationality, and it is not the form of cooperation that we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1462	When the representative Haga presents the Central Party's agricultural policy as something that is in the interests of most developing countries, it is a special description of reality. In the WTO, however, we experience that Norway and the EU are running almost a centre party agricultural policy based on protectionism. That such a policy provokes many developing countries and hinders the necessary progress in the WTO may not worry the representative Haga, while it is a red cloth for many developing countries and peasants in developing countries who can only dream of the support schemes provided by Norwegian farmers. Does the representative, Mr Haga, believe that the preservation of Norwegian agricultural policy should take place regardless of the impact on WTO processes and the farmers of poor countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1470	Before I can answer this, we have to clear up two fundamental misunderstandings. One is that the EU has chosen to be very close to the United States in this negotiation process, and that is exactly what made our foreign minister get things to go in surriball with the alliance partners in this process. So it is the EU and the United States that are now largely on the same line. The second misunderstanding that needs to be resolved is that in the context of the WTO, there is a wide variation in what developing countries think. The poorest developing countries are those with which we can largely find ourselves. The reason we can find together with them is that they are net importers of food, and they need to protect their agriculture. They want to do that by maintaining customs, and there we should find together with them, because we have obvious common interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1477	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1480	The elections of 15 September gave us a discouraging result. Only a little over half of the voters found it worth voting. It is a signal to us who are in this room today, that not everything is well done with the Norwegian local democracy. We have to take that seriously. For the Left, better local democracy was the most important thing before this election. The government has also promoted a number of measures to revitalise local democracy in the last year, as the Prime Minister said in his speech. It is therefore sad to note that the Government's proposals have been voted down by a large majority who are more concerned with detail management and centralist solutions than with giving more power to citizens and citizens' representatives locally. The low turnout shows that the distance between the citizen and the elected people has become too large, while several voters are calling for local solutions and increasing their focus. For the Left, therefore, it becomes absolutely necessary to start a process that decentralizes power from the state level down to the municipalities, as the Government works for. Municipalities must have the freedom to choose their own solutions and greater freedom to control their own resources. Local authorities and the citizens of municipalities need more responsibility and more freedom. Today's government is promised the Left voters before the 2001 elections: a government alternative to the Workers' Party without the participation of the Advance Party. The government has three different parties to have a majority with – which has produced significant results both in fiscal policy and in environmental policy at the same time. It would not have been possible if the government had locked itself into cooperation with one particular party in all matters. In particular, there are three areas that are important for the Left in the coming period and where the Government delivers results: We must succeed in creating a society on the premises of the environment, not expense.We must ensure that thousands of new businesses and jobs are created that are capable of meeting international competition and that at the same time can contribute to the community so that we can solve the welfare challenges we face.We must create a welfare policy that takes care of those who need the help of the community the most – we must take a social responsibility to ensure all dignity in all stages of life. I'm considering the claim that we have the best environmental government in the country ever had. Where the Stoltenberg government came to power at anti-pollution gas power plants, and where the passivity towards British party colleagues compared to the Sellafield emissions was more than evident, the Cooperation Government delivers results on continuous bonds. After intensive efforts from the Left and Norwegian Governments, we have now made the British commit themselves to the nine-month halt in the technetium emissions from Sellafield. The fight against Sellafield was a major issue for the Left in the previous election campaign. That fight is now being crowned with victory. Nevertheless, it is important to stress that the fight against Sellafield emissions continues, and neither the Left nor the Government are satisfied before the pipes close too well. We have a high commitment to alternative and environmentally friendly energy, which is in the process of delivering results. Not least, we see this in the area in which I, as Minister of Agriculture, am particularly concerned, namely the production and use of bioenergy. The government delivers large stakes in public transport, and we have made sure to speed up the demand for electric cars, among other things. by allowing these few to run in the collective fields of the big cities. We are delivering environmentally friendly results to the joy of future generations. Unemployment can only be met by creating new and lasting jobs. The key to making more people want to create their own jobs is stable and good framework conditions. A record low interest rate, as a result of the government's responsible economic policy, is the best start-up aid to new businesses. The large impact of the left on the closure of the investment tax is another example of targeted investment in the new businesses and new jobs. The same is true of the so-called Tax Funding Scheme. This is not tax-free to the richest, as it is infinitely – but equally false – repeated from the opposition parties on the left. We must realize that small businesses and entrepreneurs must be the «locomotive» in modern Norway. For the growing generation it must be as natural to create its own job as to find it in the established labour market. This is not least the case in the sector for which I am responsible – agriculture. For me, it is an important objective that many of those who for different reasons leave traditional volume-producing agriculture start up new activities and new small businesses based on the resources available on individual farms. Many of the new and small businesses we need in the future must just come to District Norway, we will succeed in continuing to have viable communities throughout the country. A good welfare policy is that citizens feel security to master everyday life, both the security of the big community when it is really needed, and the security of dignity at all stages of life. In all the core areas of the Left, the Cooperation Government delivers results.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1520	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1523	State Council Sponheim chose to act as the leader of the Left in this interlocutory during this persuasion debate instead of as Minister of Agriculture. It is understandable when you see what is in the mainstream of agricultural policy: «The government will ensure economic development and the collective agricultural goods.» It wasn't much to get the sense of. I will therefore try to get him back on track again as Minister of Agriculture. Norwegian agriculture and the Norwegian food industry face major challenges over time. Imports of food from the EU have doubled in the last decade. New chains of foreign goods are coming in, and the Norwegian chains are turning to low-price policy by having smaller range of goods. As a result, the conditions for niche products and Norwegian-produced food become worse. My question is: What measures will the Minister of Agriculture take to improve the situation of Norwegian niche products and Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1533	There is no doubt that the food market in Norway is represented by products from many more countries now than too few years ago. It has contributed not least to negotiations in the context of the EEA Agreement, but also to the WTO negotiations. Many will experience this as an increase in freedom of choice. Everyone sees it in the way of the grocery trade, where, among other things: Sees that the Ostedians have a significant offer. But the interesting thing is that this has also made you never sold any more Norwegian products. Traffic is growing traffic. If there is a long queue in front of the Ostedians because the sample is large, more Norwegian is also sold. It'll be an interesting experience to bring with it. The measures we have are working on two lines. We need to have as effective a volume-producing agriculture and a supply system as possible, so that food does not become unnecessarily expensive in areas where large and efficient volumes are to be produced, and then we need to develop a food market made up of more exciting special products, where the willingness to pay more is greater. At the same time, Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian food supply must be able to compete with the two tanks in their heads.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1540	I also record that our Minister of Agriculture in his post almost exclusively talked about things other than what he is responsible for, namely Norwegian agricultural policy, so I get to follow up in the same street. I also heard the Council of State on the radio news this morning, where he repeated this with increased labour immigration, and where our parliamentary leader said no on the contrary. We have 110 000 unemployed in Norway, we have 60,000 part-time workers who would like to work more. We have 750 000 people in the public sector, over twice the average in the EU. We have many immigrants with permanent residence permits who do not get a job, and much, much more. Here we want to activate first, and then to the agricultural sector, the agricultural agreement: we have about. 4 000 bureaucrats who deal with applications and carry out checks on farmers up to several times a year, which farmers need to carry out financially. Do you need to liberalise and simplify this legislation to get them into more productive, value-creating work?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1547	The joy of this morning's news is that the Norwegian people have understood that it is necessary for Norway to have increased labour immigration in the next decades to solve the problems. Otherwise we will be confronted with the impossible choice: either care or business. It is not possible to make that choice. We need both parts on an increasing scale, and then we need more hands. It must be possible to combine such a long-term approach with the fact that in a market economy we will live with cyclical fluctuations and unfortunately will have periods of high unemployment, as we now have. This is why the government’s policy is geared towards doing something about the short-term situation as well. Lower interest rates and exchange rates are one, and many other answers come in the government budget, which has one goal: to reduce unemployment in the next year. So it's important to say that we need to have increased labour immigration for the longer-term challenges. And I don't believe, as the Progress Party's policy is on, leaving agriculture altogether the great source of labour to replace the need for labour immigration. At least this would contribute to a dramatic development for Norwegian districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1554	A few days before the election, I had the pleasure of participating in a debate in Bergen with the State Council of Sponheim, and outside the room there was a demonstration in which the met would like to hand over to the Council of State a ticket to Cancun so he could go there to defend the interests of Norwegian farmers in the WTO negotiations. I said it was okay for me if the council went, but he chose to stay. Now it turned out that it was not the agricultural issue that caused the WTO Ministerial Conference to collapse, but other issues: demands from the rich countries for concessions from the developing countries in entirely different areas, in particular the issue of a global investment agreement that would ensure the free establishment of investors worldwide. Many developing countries are concerned about it, because they believe it will help to hamper the ability to protect and build their own business. When the negotiations that took place in Cancun are now to continue in Geneva, this will be a key question as to whether we can move forward. My question is: is Norway now ready, after having been so clearly demonstrated that the developing countries are massively opposed to an investment agreement, to abandon the requirement for a global investment agreement in the WTO?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1563	I can confirm that there was an interesting and good debate between the SV's representative and me on democracy and local democracy, and I liked very badly, I must say, that someone wanted the Left Party leader to leave the country for the last week of an election campaign. I didn't think that was an expression of any particular democratic mindset. I chose to stay, and it went well in Cancun, at least in the sense that agriculture was not laid down as a consequence of that meeting. Both the Council of State Gabrielsen, who was present over there, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs and other representatives of the Government stated that Norway was willing to meet the wishes of the developing countries in relation to these Singapore issues, in order to continue in Cancun, so there can be no doubt about what was the position of the Norwegian Government in order to keep the negotiations on track in Cancun. But it illustrates how complicated this is. For all of us, not least the leader of the Center Party, we must stay together with Switzerland and Japan in order to curb the interests of agriculture in Cancun. But who, above all, is going to break the negotiations if they do not get a say in an investment agreement? It is precisely these countries, who have a great interest in investing large amounts of money out there, but who are our allies in agriculture. And it illustrates how complicated this relationship is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1570	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1574	The throne speech of the year was not exactly of the most exciting kind, where the government was to show how it intended to solve, among other things. the many problems that older and sick people face in today’s society in Norway. This was not expected by this government either, and it is therefore important that the opposition, through proposals and debates, helps the Government to pursue a more humane and dignified policy towards the elderly and the sick in that country. It's actually not enough with big thoughts and bold propositions when the content is not good enough. As the Progress Party sees it, the word dignity in the future will be the key to our success or not in caring for our elderly and sick people in this country. It is almost exclusively being discussed today that there should be an offer of e.g.: hospital, nursing home, operation, home service, etc. It's just that it's going to be an offer, but we have to start talking about it going to be a worth offer. This dignity is important for the recipient to feel himself at all times. We have recently seen reports that reveal major shortcomings in the care of our elderly and sick. Although some try to question the reports, such as: However, a number of shortcomings in the care of our elderly and sick people have been identified by the Nursing Association and the Medical Association, which directly show that there are unworthy offers. It is a shame that in one of the richest countries in the world you are not able to make a worthwhile offer either in a public or private institution. In this connection, I would like to mention, inter alia: refer to the Right parliamentary leader in the line exchange with Jens Stoltenberg about the importance of being able to choose. Furthermore, I can refer to a statement in today's VG that goes on a crime in fling. I would like to quote a few small points. It says, among other things:\t\t You can ‘There are considerable variations between municipalities. In some places, the service is in order in almost all areas, while in others there is a significant failure, says Health Director Lars E. Hanssen of the State Health Authority.’ The problems that have been identified are, in fact, the health services that have revealed, and not an organisation report. It must be possible to make a system change to ensure that those living in institutions, including: get sufficient food and get up and lie down when they want, and not only when the caregivers have time. Among other things, we must: be able to ensure that young people with disabilities who wish to do so are offered accommodation other than in a nursing home. This is not dignity. As today’s care is organised, it is the individual’s residence address that is crucial to the quality and value of the individual’s caregiver’s services. Many municipalities offer very good care, but unfortunately many other places are offered a service characterized by too low staffing with almost no options regarding freedom of choice or influence on what one’s own everyday life should look like. Dignity is also the ability to influence one's own everyday life. Dignity is also to be able to use its consumer power even after the disease has caught one. Why should it be that as long as we are young and healthy, we should be viewed as a customer who is to be treated with respect and dignity so that we do not use our choice to act elsewhere, but when one gets sick or old, one should thank the offer one gets? It is important that one departs from today's system where the residence address is essential for the offer to be received to a system where the individual is given more power by the fact that the various health and care services are financed by the State through the local social security office. In this way, the individual himself can have the opportunity to choose services and offers in a much more freer way than is the case today. In this way, consumer power will also be given back to the individual, so that one is seen as a customer and not just as a cost item.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1598	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1601	The Progress Party often maintains a very high profile in older policy, and Nesvik is no exception. Occasionally, it may have skins of excess, not to be too strong. Very often, the party makes comments that are not actually related to hops. The Progress Party has now made a proposal to equip older people with a cash amount, and then they are going out to take care of them. The Progress Party and not least John I. Alvheim used war types in the election campaign to describe the quality of care for the elderly. Then the question is asked by the representative Harald T. Nesvik: What quality does Nesvik think older people who do not have their own money to speculate on in a two-part care offer, which is the result of the Progress Party's policy where a market-based care provider is offered?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1606	You'll actually get a much better offer than the one per. today. Today, it is precisely the wallet that determines whether a person is getting help or not in a number of municipalities. We are in a situation where politicians choose some places to bet on other things: town halls, cultural houses and other things, and down priorities, among other things. care for the elderly. We want it to be state funding, where the individual's care needs must be what triggers the sum to be provided for the individual to receive what he is entitled to offer. Therefore, one will actually be able to get many more providers. One will have a situation where one that consumers can choose and thus get a better offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1611	In recent years, we have had a significant improvement in the provision of elderly caregivers. As the head of the Social Committee, the Party of Advances John I. Alvheim, admitted in Political Quarter in the election campaign: the offer is basically good. I agree, but of course it is a potential for improvement. Despite this, the Progress Party believes that the Social Security Act should assume responsibility for the institution-based service provision. The part of progress will mean that the unit price of the social security unit ‘must meet a sound minimum standard’. Most municipalities are currently offering an offer that is better than the minimum level in today’s legislation. Who is going to pay the difference in the Progress Party model? Will the quality of the offer depend on the individual’s wallet in the Advance Party’s care for the elderly? Is this worth it? Government lots do not want a minimum standard, but a quality requirement. Today, good and open elderly centres are being developed that contain nursing homes, nursing homes, day care centres and home services. This gives older people the opportunity to get good offers adapted to their needs in their local environment. In the Progress Party model, the social security system will be responsible for developing care for the elderly. The state health home is likely to be a B hospital located in a region centre far from where people live and far from the relatives. Is this worth it?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1618	The representative, Höie, is afraid that when the government takes over, the offer will be worse. What's the whole point here is that it shouldn't actually be the way it is today, where it's your residence address that triggers whether you get an offer or not. I also said in my post here that it is very good in a lot of municipalities. But then we have to do something in those cases where it's not good at all. And here you can mention municipalities in flang. If the representative Höie takes the time to read, for example: what is presented in the Health Authority report, which is partly reproduced in the VG, I think he will see that it does not actually work within today's system. It is not useful to talk about quality requirements as long as they are not followed up. The state has the financial backbone to follow up, to set standards and to keep the money up with. That's what we have to do. In the municipalities there are so many variations today that it hasn't been possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1623	Harald T. Nesvik and the Progress Party are calling for a different system of financing in the care of the elderly, which they have so far not been tested. But in another area, models of funding for the Advance Party have been tried out, and that is the hospital sector. The National Audit Office has recently produced a report on the input-based funding of hospitals, where experience has been gained in the pursuit of profitable patients. There have been comparisons at 28 different orthopaedic departments. And the Riksrevision conclusion is clear: the profitable patients are given priority in the health queue, and e.g. hip reoperation is not prioritised as a consequence of it. The Progress Party wants more of this policy and has argued several times for 100 pst. input-based funding. Now the Council of State warns against these developments and will see whether the framework should be extended at the expense of input-based funding. Does the Progress Party see that their policies in this area are in the process of failing, and that the differences in the supply of patients are increasing, and should therefore be reversed?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1632	As regards input-driven financing: No, the system should not be reversed. It should be developed, and you have to look at the system itself in terms of, among other things. the unit price given, and also in the way in which the DRG itself is made, if you get the distortive effect that, among other things. Olav Gunnar Ballo is inside. We can all agree that the kind of distortion effect we don't want, and then we'll look at the system itself and the prices given in relation to it. The study referred to by Ballo shows that one of the main problems is the cost of patients staying in hospitals and waiting days for, among other things. hip patients – it was well shown to be 30,000 days away as a relationship to this. But effort-driven funding has worked. It has worked because we have treated more patients. We have increased patient treatment in Norway. It also costs a lot more, but we had to know that. So we don't want any less of this, but we've said that we want 80 pst. input-driven financing, not 100 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1639	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1642	Trontal doesn't say much about defence policy, not even if there's going to be a new long-term proposition for defence in the period, which we're waiting for. And not one word about whether the Government intends to follow up the June 2002 Workers' Party agreement. Stability and predictability were the starting points for the reconciliation. There have been tough conversion measures. But in any case, places like Haakonsvern, Ørland Main Aviation Station and the small community of Sørreisa were to know that what we had decided, we were to stand for that. For the past six months, I've visited a number of communities with defence jobs. They have reconciled with the structure and tasks they have now received. I've been to Bjerkvik in Northland, in Lakselv and in South Varanger, at Karljohansvern in Horten and at Bardufoss, just to mention some places with great changes, but where the defense still means a lot to secure the local population's work. If the agreement is not followed up, we know it goes beyond the agreed structure. It will affect both local communities and Norwegian security policy, but it will primarily create uncertainty rather than predictability. Defence and security policy – in the same way as foreign policy – must be based on a broad majority in the United Kingdom. Keywords must be budgetary predictability and stability in order for the defence to be able to carry out the organisation process which has been initiated and which Jens Stoltenberg mentioned today as one of the major modernisation projects in the public sector under his government. We set up a new defence structure with a greater and better operational capability and develop a structure adapted to current and future security challenges. The defence policy agreement of spring 2002 was therefore absolutely necessary to eliminate the imbalances we had experienced between the structure and the economic framework of the previous year. The conversion of defence must also be seen in the light of our role in NATO. However, NATO can only play a role in Norwegian security if the alliance is adapted to the new security policy tasks. The threat picture, as we know, is not a constant factor. 11 September 2001 changed international policies to a very large extent. The Iraq war has further changed the global order and not least the relationship over the Atlantic. NATO's new Secretary-General has a great task of regaining confidence and cooperation across the Atlantic. This, in addition to contributing to the development of EU defence and security policies, should mark the anchoring of the NATO framework and the infrastructure of NATO. For Norway, this is very important. If we don't stay out of the way, we'll also be taking decisions that shape security policy in our neighbourhoods. Now the Cold War’s defence alliance is being transformed into a broad security cooperation body with all over Eastern Europe as members, and is becoming increasingly political – including in terms of cooperation with the EU. We are constantly saying that the fight against terrorism must be long-term, it must be holistic, but it must not least take place on several fronts at the same time. The fight against terrorism must be combated by political, diplomatic, economic and military means. We must pursue an active neighbourhood policy, safeguard our interests in Europe and contribute to global warming. Today's threat picture demands greater flexibility and use of our resources. With a large number of large numbers in their backs, Norway has sent troops and civilian-military forces to Afghanistan. And now let's not forget Afghanistan. Because in Afghanistan, we now see challenges in several areas. The Taliban regime has been removed, but the fight is not over. Afghanistan needs long-term development assistance, security assistance and political assistance to establish democratic institutions. If the basis for terrorism cannot be re-established in the country where Al Qaida found his political ally. At the same time, we know that relief organisations cannot operate development without security. Without security, political organisations cannot evolve either. In this context, I welcome the initiative by Hilde Frafjord Johnson to make Afghanistan a cooperating country, as well as military assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06.ana.ud2671e1665	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is late. The meeting will therefore be cancelled, and a new meeting will be held at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
