ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e28	The following alternates have taken their seat: For Akershus County: Harald Espelund For Hordaland County: Mali Grete Neergaard Aksnes The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e41	On behalf of the representative John I. Alvheim and myself, I would like to propose to amend the regulation on remuneration for residence in an institution so that the amount of the allowance is set at 25 p.m. of the basic amount of the social security.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e46	The representative of Hill-Marta Solberg will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e49	On behalf of the big business representatives Jens Stoltenberg, Ranveig Frøiland, Tore Nordtun, Torstein Rudihagen and myself, I would like to make a private proposal for action against the increasing unemployment and against the reduction of competitive business.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e54	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e77	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Dagfinn HøybråtenState Council Hilde Frafjord JohnsonState Council Erna Solberg The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We will then start with the first main questions, from the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e96	I have a question for the Minister of Health. Through a number of essays in the Evening Post — eventually in other media as well — it has been revealed that in Health Sør the diagnosis has changed, at least in one of the hospitals, in order to provide the hospital with better income from the funding model that exists today, the input-based funding. A look-up in the Evening Post today reveals that the health director became aware of these conditions before the first headlines came into the media, and that the Ministry of Health was made aware of the situation already on 17 February. In a letter from the Health Director to the Ministry of Health, the Health Director writes: ‘I refer you to a meeting with the Ministerial Council and you today and send this matter complete in a copy. We believe it should be reported to the police as soon as possible and investigated with data track protection." We are well aware that the Ministry of Health has made a different assessment, and that the matter has not been reported to the police, but that the situation has been looked at in other ways. Can the Minister of Health justify the choice of another solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e110	Let me first say that the hospitals manage the people's trust and their money, and that there is no acceptance for cheating either with diagnosis or coding in hospitals. As soon as I became aware of the conditions to which the representative of Ballo referred, an external review of Health South was started, later also by the hospital in Arendal, when we became aware of what had happened there. That review was already in full swing when the papers wrote about this. It shows that we acted very quickly and in cash in relation to the information we received. The review is still ongoing in relation to the hospital in Arendal. It is not that the conditions at the hospital in Arendal became known to us through this transmission from the health director. It was the plans to launch a project at the regional enterprise level that became known to us through that enquiry. At that time, we made an assessment of whether the purpose of securing evidence, which was contained in the Health Director's transmission, was the subject of a police report. We assured ourselves that the evidence that was relevant was actually secured, and therefore found in consultation with the government attorney that no police report was to be made at that time. But I would like to stress that the matter is still under follow-up, that there will be a supervisory follow-up by the Health Authority, and that the issue of possible criminal consequences remains topical and open.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e119	I will ask the following additional questions. Today's Fädrelandsvenn is expressed by the management of Sørlanden Hospital Arendal, which is the hospital where a number of diagnoses have been discovered to have changed, that they believe that the diagnosis coding may well be as wrong in other hospitals here in the country as at the Arendal hospital. Now it's like the input-based funding has a model where the diagnosis will be critical for 70 pst. of the revenues generated by the hospitals. Does the Minister of Health see that today's funding system itself facilitates creativity in order to increase earnings, and that the financing system itself can thus be one of the reasons for the development of the hospital in Arendal, which may also occur in other hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e128	The conditions that have now been revealed at the hospital in Arendal through the investigation I carried out are most critical, and they are followed up routinely, quality and responsibly in relation to that hospital. I cannot relate to the kind of claims that the representative of Ballo now referred to, except by saying that it speaks his clear and clear language that the other hospitals in Health South rejected the proposal to launch a code project on the premises proposed. Otherwise, I have to say that I gave a broad explanation of this in the staging room yesterday in connection with an interpellation from Asmund Kristoffersen, where I stated that I believe that we should still have a system that stimulates hospitals to treat more patients more quickly, as effort-driven funding does. It makes a lot of demands for control, and we follow that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e135	There will be three follow-up questions – first Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e138	As the Minister of Health said, yesterday we had a wide-ranging debate on issues related to possible fraud with the funding system, and I was quite reassured by the steps taken by the Minister of Health on a general basis. However, this system is based on trust between the central health authorities and the individual hospital and the individual doctor. And if it's the case that someone was going to catch up on money beyond what they're entitled to, it's going to affect patients in other areas, because we have to assume that they have a common cake to share. Does the Minister of Health have any reason to believe that what we have now seen examples of can be a feature in health regions other than where it now appears to have been revealed?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e145	As I explained in my reply in yesterday's debate, it is my opinion that there is a high ethical standard in the Norwegian healthcare system in relation to doing things right. It is absolutely essential that there is a link between the study of the patient being conducted, the diagnosis being made, and the coding being made, and thus the financial exclusion provided by the single-cost financing system. It is also my opinion that this system requires a good deal of judgement, and that it can therefore be a part of a mistake. But that's not the same thing as accepting and making it possible for conscious mistakes, which, in fact, on an unjustified basis, can bring the hospitals income that they shouldn't have. We'll make sure that the control systems capture it and that the correct revenues are settled through the billing system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e153	Sigbjørn Molvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e156	The system developed by the doctor in Arendal seemed to be such a good idea that he proposed this as a pilot project at four other hospitals in the region. In retrospect, it has been found that the coding was incorrect, and the hospital in Arendal has also admitted it far on the way. They're going to pay back $6 million. kr, which has been unlawfully assigned to them by this coding. The doctor in question has resigned from his position with immediate effect, and the other four hospitals said no to be in this because they saw that it was totally unacceptable. Nevertheless, the Board of Health South is trying to minimize the role of the management of the regional health company in this, expressing full support to the Executive Director. Does the Minister for Health agree with the assessments made by the Board of Health South regarding the role played by the management of the regional health business in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e161	Let me first correct the representative Molvik with regard to the facts. It is not that the management of Health South at the time they evaluated a pilot project knew code practices in Arendal. This practice has continued since 2000, i.e. before the establishment of the health business system. I believe that the management in Health Sør has been guilty of serious misassessments and has acted critically in this matter. I have expressed this in writing to the Board of Health South, and I have received the full and complete regret from the board in relation to the critical circumstances I have addressed the search light. I have also received a comprehensive plan from the board on how they will rectify this. I cannot therefore agree that the Governing Board is debatable of what has happened. It does not cover the documents I have received.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e168	Ola D. Lukewarm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e171	This scandal, as one may call it, from Health Sør is justified in being unjustly able to make money by getting a higher income than what one should have. Some of this lies in the funding system. Will the Minister of Health consider changing input-driven funding so that the ISF bit may be lower than now? We know that there are parties that want it much higher than today's funding, but thus the incentive to trick even stronger. What worries me most about this trick is actually what is tricking with diagnosis. Will the Minister of Health and the Department follow up so that no one gets the wrong diagnosis after that in their private journal? If the hospital carried this out completely, I also expect that there is a misdiagnosis in the private journal of some of these patients, which may be stressful, for example. have been diagnosed more seriously and dangerously by those who have been operated to remove tonsils.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e180	Let me make it clear, clarifyingly: there must be consistency between the medical examinations that have been carried out, the diagnosis being made, and the coding that is introduced into the settlement system. That is what is at the focus of the quality and clean-up work that Health Sør has undertaken to do, and that we are pursuing at national level in relation to a number of measures that it would lead too far to go into here, but that I explained to the Storting yesterday. Let me say, when it is said, that when the representative Lukewarm says – if I understood it correctly – that making money would be wrongfully in the system, I have to take a clear distance from it. We used to have a system that stimulated long waiting lists, because you got a frame, and you got more money if you had long waiting lists. Then Stortinget deliberately chose a system in which to settle the number of people treated. This has led to more people getting help faster, and this has led to shorter queues. We must not forget that in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e187	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e190	I have a question for the Minister of Development. The war in Iraq has led to unimaginable human suffering. Through the media, we receive daily reports of civilian deaths and serious injuries. Women, children and the elderly are hit. We hear about hospitals that are about to run out of medicine and equipment. We hear about amputations that have to be performed without anesthetic. Significant refugee preparedness has been built beyond Iraq's borders, while the auxiliaries inside Iraq are insufficient. The need for help is acute. Today we have heard that Norway has sent hospital equipment to Iraq. What are the possibilities for this emergency aid to be achieved, and is Norway more likely to contribute while the war is still under way?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e199	I fully share the description of the situation that is now on the ground in Iraq. There is no doubt that the Government has made considerable efforts to make funds available not only for humanitarian aid but also for an early reconstruction of Iraq after the war is over. With regard to the questions raised by the representative, we have managed the acute situation – which is in itself the constitutional responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs – by sending a hospital down to Iraq today at the request of the World Health Organisation and in cooperation with the Red Cross system. It could be used immediately. This has been done on the basis of the NOREPS system and the preparedness established in Norway, and will amount to 6 million. kr. The hospital could be put into service immediately because the Red Cross has access to the area under its mandate and the Geneva Convention. The same applies to several UN organisations. The UN organisations have their own humanitarian mandate, so that they can enter immediately, in addition to the Red Cross. As far as the United Nations is concerned, we have set 10 million. NOK at disposal – of the new 250 million. kr that the Government launched a few weeks ago – which will be a contribution to coordinating the activities of the United Nations, so that a coordinated UN can now enter and provide immediate help. A total of 410 million have been set by the Government. NOK at disposal. In fact, this is more than what was put at the disposal of Afghanistan, despite the fact that oil for the food programme also contains a significant amount to be used for humanitarian aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e210	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In addition to the urgent need for assistance, assistance to Iraq will be needed for a long time in the future. This applies, inter alia, to: water supply, food supply, health care and the development of public administration. It is important that the world community does not forget the people of Iraq when the TV cameras are shut down. The Labour Party believes that the UN should play a central role in the reconstruction process. We believe that Norway must make an active contribution without affecting the aid commitments we already have today. We believe that aid to Iraq must be given in the form of exceptional contributions and not taken from other poor and suffering. Can the Council confirm that the money is granted exceptionally, so that it does not go beyond the aid commitments that Norway already has today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e221	The government has in its preparation and launch of the new 250 million. NOK – i.e. the 410 million. Total kr – said this should not go out on other needy people in other parts of the world, and we will, of course, come back to Stortinget with how this should happen. But yes, it should not go out on other needy people in other parts of the world! Let me also take the opportunity to say that the Government shares the opinion of the Workers' Party and the representative of the Eyering on the importance of the UN taking the lead in the coordination of reconstruction efforts. And what we heard yesterday at the press conference between President Bush and Prime Minister Blair, where it was said that the United Nations should have a vital role in reconstruction, indicates that this is going in the right direction, and that that view Norway and also the Workers' Party and the representative of the Eyeågen have formed, may seem to be what you land on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e229	There will be follow-up questions – Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e232	I'd like to follow up what's associated with the United Nations as a coordinator, and also the plays we've had from both Bush, Blair and Chirac. The UN was put on the sideline when this war started. It has lamented both the Workers' Party and the Government. Now it is absolutely necessary, as the Council of State also stressed, to have a planned construction of the country, but also to prevent the reconstruction of Iraq, and for that reason also humanitarian efforts, from being marked by a conflict of interests between major powers. What will the Government do to ensure that the interests of the United Nations and the Iraqi people are put ahead of the various major powers that we now know?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e239	Let me first say that the government shares the representative's assessments. We are committed to the UN being given the leading role in reconstruction, the coordinating function. It is also important that we have two relationships in this context. One is oil for the food program, which, after all, has approximately. 11 billion US dollars at the bottom, which can be used not only for humanitarian aid but also for reconstruction, and for which the UN has the administrative responsibility, at the Secretary-General. It belongs in this picture. It is also important that Secretary-General Kofi Annan has appointed his own special adviser, and that Bush and Blair yesterday at the press conference said they want to cooperate with the UN Secretary-General's Special Adviser. It is important for the UN to have this central role in the future, so that exactly what the representative is concerned about does not happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e246	Kettil Bjørklund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e249	In the SV's view, there can be no doubt that the United States will have a heavy responsibility to contribute financially to the reconstruction of Iraq. But there is no doubt either that the United States cannot be those who govern reconstruction and rule Iraq after the war. They will have neither the right nor the legitimacy to do so. It must be the UN that is responsible for a transitional regime if necessary and that takes responsibility for coordinating international assistance for the reconstruction of Iraq. Does the Government agree? And will the Government make it clear to the United States that these are the prerequisites for Norway to enter into a cooperation on long-term aid for the reconstruction of Iraq?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e256	First, I would like to make a reservation on long-term aid for the reconstruction of Iraq. Iraq is basically a rich country. Iraq is a country with considerable oil resources. It is important that we have a certain degree of accuracy in assessing the importance of the need for a long-term response. We're going to be in a reconstruction right after the war for a transitional period, and there we take responsibility. But I'm very concerned that we don't forget the needy in other parts of the world, where the distress and crisis are actually at least as great. Leave it at the bottom. When it comes to the reconstruction arrangement, it's very important, as I said before, that the coordination and the leading role and the vital role take place at the UN, and that they have this function. As far as the Interim Administration is concerned, it is very crucial that this is something in which the Iraqis themselves can take ownership. That's the government's vision. It is important that this is taken care of. I read at least what was said yesterday, as positive in that respect. [[The President clubs.]] If you want to land on an East Timor model that the United Nations is taking full control of, I'm not sure. It's way too early to say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e263	Åslauga Haga – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e266	As we all know, this is a very serious humanitarian situation in Iraq. Norway is setting up in this respect, and it should be lacking that we did not. But the problem now is that humanitarian aid doesn't come in. It is, of course, the responsibility of the warring parties to get the aid in and get it in now. We know that hospitals in Baghdad do not have basic equipment to deal with the current situation. It is important to put pressure on the United States, the United Kingdom and their allies to enable them to bring humanitarian aid. My question to the Minister for Development is: What dialogue does the Government now have with the United States and the United Kingdom and their allies that they must open up closures, so that emergency aid comes in?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e271	Following the Geneva Convention and international law, it is the military forces that are responsible not only for securing the civilian population and for relieving humanitarian suffering, but also for securing humanitarian corridors for aid. It is those who have a special mandate to do this, who are going to contribute – be UN organisations, the Red Cross or the ICRC. In the case of the latter, to some extent they have been given the opportunity to come in, but the acts of war have prevented, as the representative was also involved, significant relief efforts. Now we're doing something about this. We're trying to help get the help in. Last week, the Secretary-General of the United States of America discussed these issues with the Secretary-General of the United Nations, with other actors and with the U.S. authorities. I will travel over to the next week and will also have the opportunity to discuss these questions. It is important that all humanitarian actors are now involved and contribute to dialogue with the coalition forces so that the necessary assistance can be provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e280	Let's move on to the next main question. In the following main questions, the President will only allow two follow-up questions, if nothing is to happen in particular, so that we reach through the long list of main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e285	My question goes to the Minister of Health. Odelstingen adopted the current Patient Rights Act in July 1999. However, the law does not provide for the right to reimbursement of hospital expenses so that Norwegian patients can be entitled to treatment within an individually prescribed medically justified timeframe. In the Sem statement it is stated that this government would come back with an extended right law, which so far has not happened. The Progress Party proposed in 2001 the amendment of the Patient Rights Act that grants Norwegian patients a legal right to treatment on public account, either in private hospitals or in hospitals abroad, if the individual time frame was overlooked. The proposal did not get a majority in Odelstinget. When will the Minister of Health propose to amend the Patient Rights Act which legislates patients’ right to treatment at private clinics or in hospitals abroad when the medically justified timeframe is missed?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e295	On the basis of the Sem Declaration and the Government Declaration to the Stortinget, the government has worked on a legislative proposal designed to amend the Patient Rights Act on the points currently raised by the representative Alvheim. We will propose that the right to treatment be linked to an individual deadline, to be established on a medical basis. We are going to propose that if the regional health companies that have custody do not meet the deadline before its expiry, the patient should have a right to be treated in a private hospital in Norway or in a hospital with which the country has a contract abroad. We are going to propose that regional health companies take responsibility for the patient bridge, as we know it today, and that the Swedish National Agency be given responsibility for managing the agreement with the foreign hospitals, as they have done in connection with the patient bridge. This bill will be presented to the Stortinget in a very short time, so that the Stortinget will have the opportunity to deal with it in ours if it is otherwise appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e304	I thank the Council of State for the answer and I am very pleased that the Advance Party will have full impact on patients' sundry medical treatment rights within a fixed time limit on a medical basis. I also assume that the right law will provide the basis for free hospital choice to apply to private hospitals, private clinics and other private health services, and that the law is so simple and clear that you do not need a bureaucratic legal mill to promote your claim when the public treatment deadline is exceeded. Can the Minister of Health confirm this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e311	Yes, I can confirm that the Government in this proposition will also propose to extend the free hospital choice to private hospitals that have agreements with regional health companies, as announced in the government statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e316	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e319	I have a question for the Minister of State. There has been too much focus on crumbs for a long time, and now it has again come up with a matter to which we place ourselves headlong. Both the Wamwere case and the Mulla Krekar case have revealed shortcomings and weaknesses in our Norwegian system, not only in relation to foreign policy, but equally in relation to the social security system and the administration in general. Then it must be right to ask: why have we got the Mulla Krekar case and the Wamwere case? Is our law inadequate, or is it the routine that fails? And what about following and controlling the laws and rules that we have? The questions about these and similar issues have become many. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for the administration of foreign affairs, while social security, tax and legal matters are the responsibility of other government councils. But will the Minister of State, as part of the College of Government, ensure that all matters surrounding the Wamwere case are clarified, in order to be followed up with the necessary measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e328	There are many individual issues that can, of course, provide coordination of different information in a context. I want to stress that the foreign agencies and my responsibilities have nothing to do with the Wamwere case. There are questions that belong to the Ministry of Social Affairs, and partly to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in relation to the two individual issues that have arisen. There's no foreign matter associated with Wamwere. At least it's not under my responsibility to be able to answer that. I have only registered, as others here in the Chamber have recorded, that the Minister of Social Affairs has made it clear that the social security system had for some time been made aware that there could be a matter related to this. Work has been started, even before the last weeks’ notice in the VG, to follow up on the matter related to the social security payments. In the case of the Mulla Krekar case, the starting point is that in many of these cases it is difficult to obtain documentation. A question related to Mulla Krekar’s residence permit in Norway was considered in the mid-1990s. At that time, there was no decisive evidence that he had broken his assumptions – that he could be proven to have been back frequently in his home country – but it was known that he had been outside the country. At that time the matter was removed, precisely because you did not have strong enough documentation to do anything. At the moment the documentation was presented, and more transparency was gained in the matter, the foreign authorities and the PST started the work related to the issue of his residence permit, which we have now been dealing with in the foreign administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e337	The prerequisite for a good multicultural society is tolerance and respect and non-discrimination. We're going to have the same rights. We also have to have the same obligations. I'm back to wa Wamwere again, who himself, with his own statements, focused on the debate on attitudes and on racism, and the attitudes go on our Norwegian system. But he turned the matter upside down when he claimed that he was the one who was to be asked by the Norwegian social security authorities. This is a violation of Norwegian law. But I actually think there are more than wa Wamwere who can live in such a delusion. Does the Minister for Local Affairs see the need to establish some basic positions and principles in our society, and does the Minister for Local Affairs have any thoughts about how we can proceed?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e344	We've started working on a big message that we're currently calling a big message about the multicultural society. It is going to be a message that we are going to promote in 2004, focusing on how Norwegian society is changing, not only in terms of rights and obligations for those coming to Norway, but also in terms of changes in Norwegian society. So there is not a discussion about what we would traditionally call integration policy, which is about what measures are for newcomers, but what changes will be made. It is natural in this context to discuss widely also the problems that may arise, for example. when exporting social security, because social security is a right in our society. There will be many who return to their country of origin, so that they get old age or disability after living in Norway, for a period to come. These are general issues that we want to address in a discussion on the challenges facing Norwegian society. At the same time, some of these rights are individual rights that will also be there when you go back. We live in a more international society. It will be more difficult to control, but I am absolutely sure that the social authorities will be working on the issue of control in relation to these matters in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e351	There will be follow-up questions – Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e354	The Minister of Local Affairs has signalled a desire for the reorganisation of the Foreign Affairs Act, and in particular the reorganisation of the relationship between government, corruption and UDI. In its time, the Right Party and the Advance Party stood together to say no to the change that occurred from 2001. There is no doubt that today's responsibility is in a way powdered by the fact that the Storting cannot take responsibility, the Government cannot take responsibility, while the UDI is acting in its own way from day to day with new arrangements. At the same time, the Minister of State also signals a desire for reorganization, but that it will not take more than one year to do so. Could it have been possible to get such a case for Stortinget quite quickly, or should it be necessary for the Stortinget, through the Progress Party, to present the proposals, so that the matter will be dealt with more quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e363	The reorganisation of the foreign administration is about changing the law underpinning it. Thus, changing the law takes much longer than it can be promoted directly by the Storting. One of the problems with the law in place today is that the management relationship between the ministry and the two different parts of the foreign administration and the management relationship between the two has not been properly assessed. If you don't take the time to go through this and create proper governance and balance, it's likely to rush through a law before the summer now gives us new pitfalls. There are two areas I think it's important to look at now. Of course, one will also be able to discuss an overall reorganisation, but I want to warn against thinking that we should go back and move up with the root of all the new organisations that are being established. Only now does it start, for example. UNIQUE to be fully manned and working with full force, because of the amount of case coming. But there are two areas I'm thinking about, and it's land assessments and interpretation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e371	Sign Eye - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e374	The municipal minister has called for a review of the foreign administration. The working party agrees that there is every reason to look critically at the arrangements adopted and whether they are working optimally. Among other things, land skills, whether it is dangerous to travel to a country or not, are now being assessed by three bodies. The Minister of Local Affairs has suggested that it may be reasonable to reduce this to two levels. Why does the Minister of State not think that the best thing would have been if there were one level of knowledge about the countries, whether it is dangerous to travel there, so that you have only one instance to deal with, and which is also the one that you can trust?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e381	It is that we are now starting a work to assess the management conditions. We have just passed on the evaluation of the functioning of the Foreign Study, which is the starting point for the ministry's further work on governance. We haven't concluded whether it's going to be either three or two levels. It's way too early to say something locked up about what's going to be. But I would like to remind you that what was said in the paper was about whether we should have a foreign ministry that did its thing and that the second level, the foreign administration, would make an assessment of the security associated with, among other things. human rights. I don't think we ever get into the situation that we can have a foreign ministry that is also responsible for the assessment of the human rights situation and the repatriation of refugees. I think that would be very difficult to deal with, and there are no countries that do. Therefore, it would probably be natural to have two instances to evaluate the situation. Foreign policy implications could be related to how to assess things, which are easier for the foreign administration to have an opinion on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e386	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e389	I would like to ask a question to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. The Solberg Government Council has conducted a strong campaign for the launch of competition. She has concluded that, for example: care tasks can be solved by private operators as well as by the municipality. A short time ago she said in the newspaper that there is no professional evidence to suggest that competition goes beyond quality. Governments claimed that much could indicate that private operators provided the best services. The last few weeks, the media have made us aware of highly critical situations in the care of the elderly. Solveig Skinnarland at Risenga Bo- og Nursing Center is one example. The question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs is therefore: Is the Council of State as enthusiastic as before in the belief that competitive outsourcing does not go beyond the quality of care services?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e400	Yes. Social and health supervision, which is the country's professional supervision for assessing the situation both in the care of the elderly and in other parts of the health sector, has said what I also said to the daily newspaper at the same time, that there is no professional evidence in the supervisory reports they have to say that there is a lower quality or poorer staffing at private hospitals or competitive hospitals than at public hospitals. If you look at our neighboring country's assessments, there's nothing to it either. There are major differences also within the public sector. I believe that many of the suggestions we have seen, which show a situation that we absolutely do not want to have, but that has focused on private and competitive nursing homes, we could unfortunately also have experienced at public-run nursing homes. There is no doubt that we also have quite serious supervisory reports from parts of public-run elderly care per year. today. That is why I do not think that there is any professional evidence for what the Workers' Party is trying to highlight with the help of the Local Association, namely that the competitive outsourcing is going on. Postponement of competition, e.g.: Trondheim municipality, on the other hand, was a measure to improve quality. So you didn't put up with competition at price, but at a given price and what quality you could get for it. I feel that the Workers' Party is now trying to break principles that they do not have the basis for professional, based on tabloid wording. I think you'd have to think a little bit more thoroughly about it before you did, because there's no professional evidence for the claims that there is a poorer quality of the health homes that are exposed to competition. In addition, I think it is important, and it is one of the things that the Ministry of Local Affairs is working on, to ensure good competence for the orderer in the municipality, to ensure that proper quality requirements are met when launching the competition. And the Ministry of Local Affairs is working on giving municipalities the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e409	I thank you for your answer and for the advice. I would like to quote the following quotes: ‘Competition outsourcing to private commercial operators certainly means cheaper services, but what about quality? In the last part of life, are the sick homes to be cared for by employees who do not have time to hold them in their hands?’ These are words that I can put myself completely behind, but it's not mine and its Labour Party. These are actually words that Kjell Magne Bondevik wrote in the newspaper before the election in 2001. In recent times, we've really seen what kind of competitive exposure can result from overly poor care and care. Sick home services may be cheaper, but what about quality? The answer that State Council Solberg has just given suggests that she still has a completely different vision than Bondevik. My question is therefore: What is the failure in Kjell Magne Bondevik's view of the postponement of elderly care, which I have just referred to?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e423	I understand that Kjell Magne Bondevik has been concerned about ensuring the quality of the competition. I am also concerned about that, because being a good orderer in individual municipalities, making sure that the quality of the outsourcing is defined is one of the most important things to do in a process of outsourcing competition. Therefore, it also turns out that there is no professional evidence for what the representative Sandal is now trying to find professional evidence. It is not the case that individual pisods as rewritten in the paper are necessarily representative of the differences that may exist between public and private hospitals. The most important thing is that municipal politicians are aware of their order function. Then they can also be sure and guarantee the quality of the individual nursing homes. The efficiency networks we have now been reported on show that quality is extremely different internally in municipalities, even where everything is driven by the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e428	Despite the opposition of the President, three follow-up questions will be allowed here – first Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e431	In recent times, we have seen bad examples of the potential for a competitive outsourcing of the elderly. The quality of the services gets bad in several cases. Retired elderly people have fallen victim to harm. However, the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs is very much in favour of his point of view: how does uncritical exposure to competition praise? We cannot experiment with the elderly. The offer we are giving them, must maintain defendable quality. It is now necessary to make clear which results from the additional suspension of competition. Do the profit-based players like to set the professional requirements that need to be met? That must be one of the core questions. My question to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs is as follows: Will the Council of State take the initiative to stop the additional outsourcing of elderly care until the results are properly distributed?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e438	It is not such that it is those who operate the nursing homes who are required to define the quality requirements. It is those who request a service and send out a tender, namely the municipality that orders, who must define the quality to be offered in a tender, if there is competition on the price. There is a totally incorrect perception from the questioner that it is not a municipal responsibility to provide quality. In all areas of competition it is a municipal responsibility to define the quality in advance. But I understand why the Workers' Party does not understand that competition can be good, if you do not have the elementary basis that it is politicians' job to define and demand the quality of public service users. Let me say that I have seen many good examples of media outsourcing in recent times. I've seen it at St. Hans' home, where you've managed to save $13 million. kr, and where you have also managed to improve the quality. Local government employees won the bid themselves. They have gained more satisfaction and better and cheaper operation in the competitive outsourcing process. This is a good example of the fact that competitive outsourcing is a good way to go. I think we need the dynamics that competition also offers in this type of offer, namely, finding out good organizational forms.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e448	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e451	Let me first say that I am fully in line with the Council of State in relation to the Workers' Party and their campaign against what must be good in relation to the competitive outsourcing. I suspect the Workers' Party to use the terrible examples we've had in the media lately, to cover our own sins, compared to some reports that show that in 40 pst. by public institutions in municipalities where the Workers' Party has ruled is the unworthy condition. So it's clear that the Workers' Party will use this for everything it's worth. It is also interesting that the Council of State points out who is responsible for drawing up the quality and content of the procurement principle. My question goes a little further than that: can the Council of States agree to perhaps assess whether the quality and content of the institutions can be determined by the citizen himself? That would be the best thing to do. But then we have to go to a funding system where the money follows the user to a much greater extent, so that the individual can choose the quality that he wants, regardless of whether it is a public or private institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e458	I don't think that with a system where the money follows the user in the care of the elderly, you can leave it to the individual elderly to define the quality of what they're going to get. It's a public task to define the quality. I don't think you can assume that, for example. older people can make choices about the quality they will receive. It's something that the public has to take responsibility for. It is also the case that with a system where the money follows the user, it must be defined which offer the individual user should receive in areas where one does not have infinite opportunities to give, for example. The number of hours of home help in the care of the elderly. But within such a framework, it is clear that it is interesting to implement systems where users are given greater freedom of choice. We have twelve municipalities that today work with user choice of public services in a network that the Ministry of Local Government is involved in operating, and we believe that municipalities need to use this more.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e465	Heikki Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e468	There can be no doubt that this is something you sell from the government to save money or increase the quality, because, as Erna Solberg also said instead, they believe in those things. But the whole point is that the government is implementing a cut in the municipal economy. What remains for the municipalities around is to look at competitive outsourcing as a way not to improve the quality of it, but to save money. That's what we meet when, as a municipal committee, we travel all over the country: how can we save as much money as possible? But at the same time, all experience shows, among others. with nursing homes, that there is no private nursing home with profits. On the contrary, it was among other things. one at the winner who had to go down because there was a bankruptcy, and a lot of extra costs were transferred to the municipality. And then my question is: [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e475	There will be no question, but the Council of State Solberg has probably perceived the point.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e478	I believe that we always have a duty as politicians to make sure that we get the most out of the money we spend in the public sector, and I believe that there is a great potential in the public sector to get more of the money we spend. I believe that the documentation provided in recent months on the enormous differences in what we get out of quality in individual municipalities, i.e. internally in municipalities, both in schools, in the care of the elderly and in home-based care, shows that we have a lot to pick up on better quality even without more money. However, it is clear that the local government sector will also need more money to improve quality, especially in terms of improving coverage related to some conditions. I therefore believe that the important thing is that we become more knowledgeable and demand the important things in order to develop public services better. We have quite good evidence of what creates differences, and what gives the best solutions, for example. in the care of the elderly. What is typical is that the management function needs to be better [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e483	The same applies to the Council of State as to the respondent. The query probably hit the score. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e488	I have a question for the Minister of Health. In several health regions, a number of closures of food departments and emergency services are planned. It means a longer journey to the emergency services that provide people with the greatest security in everyday life. And people protest, naturally enough. It is not a problem to travel in order to receive planned treatment. If you're going to operate a knee or a hip, the distance is much less important than if a artery jerks, there's a car accident or there's complications at birth. Rapid treatment and proximity to help are crucial in such situations. The Health Minister has said that the economy should not be the basis for the closure of hospital wards. But what in the world is the result of the fact that a number of closures are now planned precisely by the most security-creating functions for people?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e493	By means of the hospital reform, the size of the population has given health companies a responsibility to go through the division of work and structure of the overall health service, and the Stortinget has asked for companies to go through these parts of the services, particularly in the context of the treatment of emergency messages. That's the job companies are doing. So they're doing a job based on leadership given by Stortinget. It is carried out on a professional basis through investigations, and it is carried out by the responsible boards. The processes in place are the starting point for ensuring a good balance between proximity and quality. Security based on proximity is important, but if there is only proximity and not quality in the content of services, there is a false security. Therefore, it is essential that these two parts are balanced against each other, so that they are supplied with sufficient quality. In my opinion, the proposals put on the table by trade unions in Health Nord and Health West regarding the conversion of food supply and emergency surgery are so far-reaching that they require treatment at an overall level. I will therefore ensure that these plans, in the form recommended by the regional health companies' boards, are submitted to the business meeting of the two regional health companies, which is the Minister for Health. There I want to ensure that the overall leadership that the Stortinget has included in that announcement is taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e500	Let me first follow up by asking if we can understand it there until all the questions about hospital closures will be addressed by the Minister of Health. That's the one. The second is that we have agreed here in the country that we should have a decentralised hospital with emergency preparedness and security for birthing women. Through the hospital reform, there is a danger that decisions on the maintenance or closure of hospital wards will be taken either on the basis of unilateral economic considerations or assessments made by a medical elite, I allow myself to say. The wider impacts on local communities are not taken into account. The Health Minister says that he should be responsible for the closure or maintenance of departments. But how will the Minister of Health provide sufficient basis for taking decisions, i.e. the basis beyond what health regions put on the table? How will he take inward consequences e.g. in relation to residence and people's security?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e506	I have a responsibility to follow up on the leadership given by Stortinget, and I will do so with regard to food and emergency preparedness, as Stortinget has dealt with this in the context of the emergency message. I agree with the representative Haga that we are going to have a decentralised specialist healthcare service in Norway, and I believe that we need to make greater provision for us to be able to play with the cancers of medicine that actually allow patients to be treated more closely where they live, for example. as regards cell toxicity treatment, dialysis treatment, increased use of telemedicine, etc. I will shortly be presenting a bill to the Stortinget that shifts responsibility for the sick transport from the Rikstrygdeverket to the regional health companies, precisely to allow hospitals to see treatment costs and transport costs in the context. It will facilitate more decentralised services. - I don't think I've wasted my time, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e515	The President thought the Minister for Health was finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e518	I have 15 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e523	The Minister of Health has 5 seconds left, so he gets them!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e526	Then I just want to say that I am of the opinion that at this point we have all the possibilities in the health reform to get an overall assessment through the system that the Stortinget has set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e531	There will be follow-up questions – Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e534	It is part of the picture that health reform has also produced very good results. It treats far more patients, queues decrease, and waiting time is shortened. In many hospitals today, income and expenditure are in fact balanced. But then we see that investigations and plans for the reduction of surgical emergency preparedness and the conversion of food supplies in many hospitals have created a very large public commitment and a great deal of uncertainty and concern on the part of the population. It is easy to understand that people see it as a serious loss of quality when the road to the emergency hospital gets further. The question is, how will the Minister of Health handle this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e539	I will deal with it in line with the law adopted by the Stortinget. It empowers and renders the regional health establishments responsible for providing adequate and qualitatively good services for the population. It also places overall responsibility at the business meeting in matters of principle and overriding importance. That's the kind of thing I want to raise to political treatment. I believe that is in line with the best intentions of the reform. In relation to the specific debate on the supply of food and emergency services, especially in the North and West health regions, I have said that I believe that the sum of the proposals put on the table through investigations made by the working group is of such general importance that it provides for a discussion at the business meeting. I'll make sure of that before summer. I will also allow myself to say that I think some of the proposals go too far. I want to make sure that we get a balance between proximity and quality, as I said in my reply to the representative Haga.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e546	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e549	In the view of the SV, there are two important elements in the current debate on the structure of the future specialist healthcare service provision. One is the material content itself: what kind of structure does it make sense to have? Where does it have to be decentralised? What kind of emergency medical functions should be performed on what kind of premise? You have to have newborn wards, and where do they have to be, etc.? That's the one important piece. But the second part of it all is: Who is going to make the decisions? What we are seeing today is that many decisions seem to be made by health businesses, properly after approval by the Council of State, but without direct influence by the Stortinge. SV has been looking for a formal organisation of this, which means that the Storting is in the process of making decisions. We have now presented a proposal for a national health plan. Will the Minister of Health ensure that the co-responsibility of the Storting is formalised in order to take these decisions so that they can be taken in democratic forums?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e554	I want to follow up on the law decisions of the Stortinget regarding health reform and ensure that the responsible bodies are empowered to take the decisions they are going to take. But of course they should not grasp them in a vacuum. They shall do so in dialogue with surrounding interest groups, user groups and municipal and county authorities, and important and fundamental issues shall be addressed at the enterprise meeting in the regions. They shall also do so on the basis of the guidance and guidance given by the Storting. In the context of the emergency response, the Stortinget has unanimously agreed that hospitals should use the guidelines for food departments and feeding centres and clinics laid down by the Health Authority. That's the starting point for this process. Finally, let me say that I want to facilitate a planning and reporting system in the enterprises that ends with a notification to the Storting in relation to the annual budget proposals, to provide the Storting with a basis for such a horizontal debate once a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e562	Ola D. Lukewarm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e565	A decentralised health service is important in order for everyone to be able to receive equivalent services. It is important for there to be an interaction between the specialist health service and the primary health service, and the proximity and interaction are better the closer they are to each other. It is also important that there is a follow-up, as the Minister of Health rightly says, to the guidelines that the Storting has given for, among other things. response time, or call-out time, and distance in the case of emergency emergency response measures, e.g. Ambulance service. That is why I believe that the Minister of Health must refer to the whole set of guidelines that Stortinget has given. For example, when it comes to the provision of food, it is true that an aggregate increase has said that the quality of the offer should be as the Health Authority has pointed out. However, in terms of the size of the different units, whether it is a mother-child clinic, a maternity ward or a maternity ward, absolute numbers should not be taken into account in terms of the number of births at the different institutions. Will the Minister of Health follow it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e570	I will follow up the unanimous decision of the Grand Duchy, which states that the Health Authority's guidelines on maternity care are to be used as a basis for planning and developing the services. That decision was also taken by the Center Party in its time. The Committee's comments then state that these figures, among other things. 400-500 births in a maternity ward must not be absolute, but an overall assessment must be made. It will also be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e577	The time for the oral questioning procedure is running out. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e582	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 4, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for Agriculture, is moved and answered to Question 1. Question 5, from the representative Knut Storberget to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister of Justice, who has been removed. At the request of the Social Minister, this question is moved and answered before question 15, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 6, from the representative of Gunn Karin Gjul to the Minister of Justice, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 10, from the representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Health, lapses, as the questioner is not present. Questions 17 and 18, from the representatives of Geir-Ketil Hansen and Signe Eye respectively to the Minister for Transport, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 19, from the representative of Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e604	‘Two Tibetans, Lobsang Dhondup and Tenzin Delek, were sentenced to death in January 2003 by the Chinese authorities for separatism by a Sichuan court. Dhondup was executed right after the trial, while the execution of Tenzin Delek is postponed for two years. Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs follow up this case with the Chinese authorities on the basis of the human rights of the Tibetan population?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e611	The Norwegian authorities have raised this matter with the Chinese authorities on several occasions. For the first time, a joint enquiry with the EU took place in December 2002 after a local court had sentenced the two Tibetans to death. Concerns were then expressed that the cases did not appear to have been conducted in a legally sound manner and invited a re-examination. After information had been provided in the media in January that Sichuan Appellate Court should have confirmed the death sentences, a new meeting was requested with the Chinese authorities, where the Norwegian ambassador in Beijing repeated the views of earlier. A few days later, the media found that one of the two Tibetans should have been executed recently. It was then immediately addressed through our embassy to the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together with the EU and Switzerland. The enquiry expressed deep disappointment with the information provided which had not yet been confirmed by the Chinese authorities. Norway later joined a Presidency opinion of the EU, expressing deep regret at the execution. It was emphasised that the judgment on a number of points did not satisfy the requirement of a fair trial. During the current session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights in response, Norway expressed concerns about the widespread use of the death penalty in China, as well as about the situation in Tibet. The matter in question will also be raised at political level during the Round Table on Human Rights between Norway and China in Oslo in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e620	In September 2002, a delegation from the Dalai Lama visited China and Tibet for three weeks. This was the first contact between the two parties in many years. The Dalai Lama later expressed the hope that there could be more such visits, and that it would over time lead to real negotiations on the political future of Tibet. In the past, Norway has called for such a dialogue. What will the Norwegian Government do specifically to influence China to enter into a dialogue?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e625	Firstly, I would like to stress that the specific matter raised by the representative, Mr Ballo, will be pursued in May, as I mentioned in my reply. It's such a positive answer to the question itself that it's possible to give. But I agree with Mr Ballo that this is an expression of a major and difficult problem, which Norway has followed up on a number of occasions, and which we also follow up in our rather regular conversations with the Chinese authorities. The position to which Mr Ballo referred is quite correct in Norway. We've been focusing on that a number of times, and we're going to do it in the further conversations as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e632	I thank the Foreign Minister for the answer, which I initially see as positive. Many times you can get the impression that the Tibet question lies down for various reasons, including in conversations with Chinese authorities, because it does not appear to be opportunistic to describe the human rights of Tibet. At the same time, Norway has awarded the Nobel Prize to the Dalai Lama, and has also shown its support to the Tibetan population in other ways. I would just like to encourage the Norwegian Government to take up, over and over again, relations relating to the human rights in Tibet in various ways and on those occasions that appear to be natural.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e637	I have no problem with accepting the request made by the representative of Ballo. I think it's probably a timely reminder of an important question. I think what I explained in my main answer, namely that we have repeatedly raised this specific matter as a statement that this is an important human rights issue, also underlines that this is doing a lot in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e642	Let's move on to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e649	I have the following questions for the Minister of Agriculture: ‘Frolande municipality will send unannounced inspectors to ensure that the municipality’s requirement of residence is met in accordance with the provisions of the Odelsladen Act. The housing obligation has become increasingly controversial, and ESA has been treated for complaints about the Norwegian housing obligation. The law allows local politicians to coerce and force people to sell their private residential property. Will the Council of State explain the current situation of the housing obligation case in ESA and confirm that any night-care arrangements, carried out by the municipality, are illegal?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e658	Since the autumn of 2001, the Ministry of Agriculture has had a dialogue with ESA on various aspects of the 1974 concession law. In a letter dated March 2002, ESA travelled among others: issues related to the dwelling obligation on agricultural properties. These are questions that the Ministry has answered in letters and commented on in subsequent meetings with representatives of ESA. However, no conclusions have been drawn from ESA. The reason for this is likely to be the case before the European Court of Justice against Austria, where both Norway and ESA have made representations to the Court of Justice. It is suggested that no decision is expected in the Court of Justice until the autumn, which must also be assumed to have implications for the progress of the process under way between ESA and the Ministry of Agriculture. If the statutory requirement of residence and occupation under the concession law and the law of no part of the land is not complied with, the owner may be required to apply for a concession. It is the municipality that is responsible for ensuring compliance with the obligation and for reporting any default. The Ministry of Agriculture has not drawn up its own rules of procedure on how to follow up this responsibility by the municipality. However, in circular M-5/2001 on the rules and practice of living and working conditions, it states whether the assessment of whether the dwelling is satisfied is itself: ‘Where, on a case-by-case basis, doubts arise as to the fact, the assessment of whether the dwelling obligation has been fulfilled must be based on an overall assessment of the different indications of whether the owner is resident on the property or not.’ If the municipality of Fromand deems it appropriate in its follow-up to send out unannounced inspectors, there is a choice of the municipality itself. It should, as I see it, be part of the municipal freedom of action to draw up procedures that ensure that the municipality fulfils its responsibilities. I cannot rule out that in isolated cases there may be a need for unannounced control, but this must be done without violating privacy. The assessment of the existence of a dwelling default must be linked to an overall assessment of the housing relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e675	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Let me first briefly refer to what the counsellor of Fromand writes in his proposal for a decision on this matter, which is the background to my question: «Frolande Municipality accepts that the accommodation is performed by Olav Morland on the property Baaseland... if Morland follows the accommodation plan outlined in its letter of 28.12.02. After each quarter, Morland must give written feedback to the municipality as to when he spent the night on the property during that period.» I am tempted to ask what kind of country it is that we are in when the authorities require accommodation plans and quarterly written reports from citizens about which of their own houses you have spent the night. You can ask what kind of guardian societies and control societies this is. Besides, what's the point of demanding 50 pst? the accommodation of the owner? Does it really matter anything to the settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e687	It is difficult for me to comment on a single case and the adviser's views on how to enforce it. There is actually municipal autonomy to enforce these rules, even though I thought it seemed violent to have to present a housing plan where you have to deny which nights you sleep in which beds. It's probably hard for many people to comply completely. Nevertheless, we have a housing obligation – the Progress Party is against it, but it is still in our law. There is no doubt that, in very many cases, this housing obligation contributes to the habitability of agricultural property, as opposed to recreational property. That's also the purpose of that. So we're going to assume that here are the sensible and wise people who enforce this in a practical way for the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e694	I thank you for your answer. I agree that once this housing system exists, we must at least ensure that it is practised with ease and reason as far as possible. Of course, for my part, I also hope that ESA can do something in this context. But it is that today's legislation is very different from the municipality to the municipality. Some municipalities always give exemption from the obligation to live, others never give exemption. Let me ask if the Council of State has any statistics or research material to refer to, or any other good indication that municipalities that almost never give exemption on housing issues have managed to strengthen agriculture or to ensure the settlement to some extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e701	If we're going to get up with what we had to have of numbers in this area, I'm probably going to have to get back to this on another occasion. At least it's not like I'm equipped with the necessary numbers here I'm standing right now. But let me just as fully say that the changes in the concession law that come to the Storting in a short time will mean that a significant number of properties – up to 100 dean – will be lifted out of the concession requirement, and thus lifted out of what we can say is the national housing obligation regulated by the law, and then it will be up to the municipalities if they want to use the instrument contained in the law to impose a municipal housing obligation. We know that there are 70 municipalities in the country that have done that. I am enough of the basic opinion – which I may also share with the questioner – that it is better for both the municipalities and for everyone, not least for the individual, whether we rely more on the housing, also on agricultural properties, on housing and not just on housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e708	So we go back to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e714	I have a question for our Minister of Finance: ‘The cash-in-trade leakage to Sweden is the largest in Norway’s history, showing the 20-30 pst increase in turnover. on the Swedish side d.a. More meat, tobacco, alcohol, sweets, brown and white goods, accommodation, medicine and car repairs and service duties are traded. The loss will be 10,000 jobs on the Norwegian side in relation to a balanced border trade. At the Conference on Trade 03, the Minister of Industry promised to reduce excise duties on goods exposed to border trade. What will the Government do to reduce the border trade leakage?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e723	In order to reduce border trade and smuggling, the levy on spirits was reduced in both the 2002 and 2003 budgets. In total, this represents a tax relief on spirits of about 25 p.m., which corresponds to approx. 55 kroner per year. bottle. Vinmonopole statistics show that spirits sales increased by 10 pst. in 2002 and the Vinmonopolet states that this is primarily due to the reduction in fees. The tax reduction in 2003 continues to lead to an increase in the sale of spirits at the Vinmonopolet – I would like to add: i.e. in Norway. In addition, taxes on wine and beer were reduced slightly in the 2002 budget. The charges on goods subject to border trade have therefore been reduced during the Cooperation Government, as we promised in the so-called Sem Declaration. In addition, I would like to remind you that a number of simplifications were made for the introduction of goods into the new luggage regulation that came into force in January of this year. In the old regulation, a number of goods were exempted from being included free of charge. The value limit was increased, and freedom of choice was increased within this value limit. The changes were also made to bring legislation more into line with what people see as fair and fair rules. In line with the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Advance Party, the Ministry of Finance has set up a high-speed expert committee to assess the impact on the country’s revenues of changing the charges on goods exposed to border trade. The selection shall include, inter alia: explain the products subject to excise duty which are most exposed to border trade. In addition, they shall assess the importance of tax developments in Norway and in our neighbouring countries for border trade and other unregistered consumption. The sample shall also account for other factors, in addition to differences in charges, which relate to developments in border trade and unregistered consumption in general. The committee will deliver its report during April and the work will form the basis for the Government’s further work on the border trade problem. Although excise duties have an impact on border trade, other factors may well have such an impact. A significant part of border trade takes place with goods which are subject to excise duties to a small extent, including: meat products and other groceries. The level of costs in Norway is consistently significantly higher than in Sweden. This is largely due to a high Norwegian salary level. In fact, the level of employment of Norwegian industrial workers is currently more than 30 pst. higher than the Swedish. Some of this difference is due to the fact that Norwegian kroner have strengthened vis-à-vis Swedish kroner in the last three years. The tight budget for 2003 has contributed as far as three interest rates in the last few months, and Norwegian krones have weakened by about a quarter. 6 pst. in relation to Swedish crowns since the New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e736	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The fact that the Norwegian wine monopoly has increased its turnover may have its natural explanation in these methanol cases we have had, because, as is the fact, the border trade in alcoholic beverages, including spirits, has increased in the Swedish System Company. But I'll get into some other factors. We now have a border trade in more and more areas, and what we see is that the currency flow out of the country reaches significant dimensions. We have this new area with e.g. medicines. In Sweden, there is no VAT on medicines on blue prescription, and even non-prescription medicines are significantly cheaper. The second is tourist traffic. We are constantly losing market shares in Norway to Sweden and other neighbouring countries, and investigations in Sweden have concluded that it is actually the border trade and the Nordics that are trading in Sweden, which contribute to increased tourist traffic. And then we have the traditional areas. So I want to ask the Council of State: When and at what level does he think that we should get tax reductions and other measures that can reduce borderline leakage?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e747	The two areas currently mentioned by the respondent are not affected by changes in fees. They are affected by the general level of costs. And if the questioner then wants to ask the question, which I understood was below, about when the level of wages and costs in Norway is going to fall to the Swedish level, I will answer that it depends to a large extent on the tight budgets adopted in the years to come. I am pleased to note that last year's Progress Party contributed to the adoption of a budget for the current year, which has contributed to some positive developments in this direction. But it will take time, depending on the strength of the measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e754	I remind the Minister of Finance that the VAT is a charge. It is in Sweden at zero in the case of prescription drugs, while we have 24 pst. in Norway – 7.2 pst. is the average in Europe. I will also come back to this sample – it was part of the budget agreement between the Progress Party and the Government. I expect the results to be presented in the revised national budget, so that the Government and the Storting can deal with that. The committee was to assess the economic impact of border trade. We had a corresponding ministerial sample in the 1990s, and the conclusion was that there were differences in taxes on alcohol and tobacco and price differences on meat products that were the main cause. Now, if you come to the same conclusions, will you do something about it and reduce charges for border-traffic-sensitive products?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e761	However, my answer is correct, as VAT is not excise duty, and it was basically a question of excise duty I replied to. VAT questions are up to the representative himself to deal with budgetary negotiations. I do not, in fact, remember that this proposal has been raised by the Progress Party in budgetary negotiations, but it is, of course, free to do so, preferably once a year. With regard to the sample treatment, I understand from the representative’s premise in the question that he does not need a sample in himself to conclude – all the facts have been brought to the fore by the questioner. I think anyway I want to await the selection's setting before I conclude. In fact, sampling is intended to be free and the conclusions are not to be drawn in advance. I cannot promise that, at a selection stage presented in April, we will have the final conclusions of the revised national budget, which will be promoted on 15 May. However, in the 2004 budget, we will address the selection process and take the necessary consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e771	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘The limit for the import of goods free of duty from abroad is NOK 200. This limit has remained still since 1975. As the rules are today, many customers have to pay up to 400-500 kroner in freight, VAT and fees for a CD for approx. NOK 210. According to Today’s Economy on 3 April 2003, both the Consumer Council, the Consumer Ombudsman, the Competition Authority, the Post and the Ministry of Transport believe that the time has now come to adjust this limit. Do the Council of State agree that this limit should now be adjusted?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e780	The Ministry of Finance recently proposed, in a draft consultation, to raise the gift limit from DKK 500 to NOK 1000. Such a suspension has relatively little impact on the competitive conditions of business and, moreover, the gift will generally be purchased with VAT in the country of dispatch. In the context of the gift-limit consultation, several hearing bodies have expressed views on the normal limit for duty-free imports, which have not been proposed. These two types of entries cannot be compared. There is a significant difference between purely gifted consignments and regular imports of goods. In the case of regular imports of goods for sale in shops in Norway, customs duties, excise duties, cargo and charges are levied. These costs — in addition to 24 pst. VAT – will be included in the selling price of the product to the consumer. However, goods imported directly to the consumer would be a tax-free trade. For comparison, goods are purchased on e.g. trade tour in Sweden covered with Swedish VAT. The large difference between the duty-free imports and the sale of goods over a disk gives Norwegian traders a great competitive disadvantage if the duty-free limit is to be raised to the multiple chargeable level. For example, the main organisation of the trade and service industries has: expressed major concerns about this competitive disadvantage. So our border is quite close to the EU border of EUR 45. A tax-free limit of e.g. 1000 SEK will open new markets for tax-free imports of clothing, electronic equipment, furniture, etc. This, in turn, could lead to the deflagration of Norwegian enterprises and jobs. Furthermore, the impact on the country’s revenue from extended tax-free trade is not determined but must be likely to be significant. However, in order to facilitate the import of small products, it is important that it can be as smooth and simple as possible. From 1 January, the customs office has opened for customs clearance over the Internet, and the post office has followed up with lower charges from 1 March. The Customs Service has seen a significant increase in the number of Internet penetrations in recent years, and we will now continue to work to ensure a development in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e791	I want to thank you for the answer, even if I'm not completely satisfied with it. It is obvious that the Council of State is not so busy with the interests of consumers in this matter, but rather wants to protect those who are engaged in the business. translated CDs and other small goods. This rate has been SEK 200 since 1975. So if one were to adjust this rate, one would have to set it up to 800 kroner. That means that the value of this limit was four times higher in 1975 than it is today. Then my question is: does the Council of State mean that this limit was too high in 1975, or is it too low today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e798	It is at European level today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e803	Yes, I did not get an answer to my question. My question was whether the limit was too high in 1975 because it should not be adjusted up today. Otherwise, I have to say that practice in these matters is that it is not only the purchase price of the product that determines whether a stay of less than NOK 200 or not. In practice, freight is also added before a value is calculated. This means that in addition to having knowledge of the exchange rate and price of goods, consumers must have knowledge of the shipping price to Norway to be sure to stay below NOK 200. Then my next question, in addition to the question I didn't get answers to instead, is whether the council agrees that this is unnecessarily complicated, and that this may be unhealthy for consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e810	In my previous reply, it was the implicit assumption that the Progress Party is in favour of tax limits being around the EU level. That is why the answer should be very satisfactory for the questioner. I just don't think it's right that we should introduce rules in Norway that make that, for example. a direct sales company with a rather large turnover — that is to say, billionaires in total — by moving to Sweden would be able to sell for lower charges and customs duties to Norwegian consumers than if the same company were in Norway. There is a kind of requirement for the relocation of Norwegian jobs that I think is completely unnecessary. It would assume that the limit was then substantially raised or removed. Thus, the EU has not committed such trade between its countries. Nor do I think it is necessary for Norway to do so. Whether the scheme is complicated? I guess it's always complicated to buy on the Internet. But what has been done by changes in my time has made it less complicated, as one can now take the customs clearance over the Internet and thus also get a lower fee for possible delivery by Post or by others who will deliver the goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e819	Question 4 has been answered earlier. Question 5 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e835	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e842	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘Research carried out by the Consumer Council and the Norwegian Asthma and Allergy Associations shows that bulk candy, with previously prohibited colours, is almost never labelled. Reports of allergic reactions have already come and hyperactive children are feared. This shows that the law is not complied with and that the voluntary agreement concluded with the professional organisations is not working. What will the Council of State do to prevent serious health damage to the food make-up directives?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e851	Responsibility for keeping informed about and following the legislation in force at all times lies with the industry. Several measures have been taken by the State Food Authority, SNT, to contribute to information on legislation. The authorities consider it serious that the legislation is not being complied with and therefore appreciate the efforts made by the Consumer Council to focus on this. Municipal and inter-municipal food surveillance has delegated the power to supervise and take the necessary decisions in respect of the establishments in accordance with the labelling requirement. I expect the supervision to follow up the Consumer Council's findings. In the past, only packaged foods were required to be labelled with food additives. With effect from 15 February of this year, additives in unpacked foodstuffs shall also be labelled in order to enable consumers to make a conscious and informed choice. So what can the authorities do to prevent serious health damage? Synthetic dyes and especially so-called azo dyes are substances known to trigger hypersensitivity reactions in some. There are few scientific studies on such reactions. Per. At the present date, too little is known about what causes hypersensitivity reactions and hyperactivity, and whether additives can be a cause. SNT has carried out a screening for the use of colouring matter in confectionery and flavoured drinks. This is not yet completed, but preliminary figures show that approx. 12 pst. of the products tested, containing azocolourants. Of the beverages were many so-called mercies, which do not target children. None of the confectionery and only three of the beverages were produced in Norway, and these drinks were all sandwiches. In order to follow developments, such monitoring should be carried out on a regular basis, and I will follow this up. SNT is developing its own theme pages on its food additives websites. SNT cooperates with the Nordic countries via the Nordic Council of Ministers. Norway has participated in a project that has considered the risk assessments underlying the authorisation of all additives in the EU. In addition, Norway will propose a new Nordic project from 2004 which analyses the content of food additives. These may in turn be combined with national intake figures to assess risks, especially for vulnerable groups. The Food Standard Agency, FSA, in the United Kingdom, has recently funded a study on colorants and hyperactivity as well as hypersensitivity in children. Neither is it possible to reach a particular conclusion here, but FSA is working on this. Norwegian authorities will follow this work closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e870	What is certain, at least, is that the agreement reached between the Stoltenberg Government and industry and trade in 2000 at the time of the adoption of the Food Mining Directives has not been followed up, and it has not prevented the substances we are currently afraid of from being traded. It was said at the time that you are allowed to refuse to take goods with those substances. But you don't – so it turns out it was a fig leaf that's now gone. Then it was also decided that we should get more clear labelling and more information. So the marking has not come into place, and the situation is that the individual consumer has to look into the shelves and look for little writing. And on some of the goods, on those that aren't packaged, there's no small print. The question is: What warnings do we have to issue, for example? do they know about the individual substances? Can we draw up a warning that the Norwegian authorities believe that this poses an increased risk to health?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e879	Let me stress that the agreement that was concluded in its time was a voluntary agreement, but that it is of course important that the industry is a believer in relation to what it has promised the Norwegian public. There's every reason to confront the industry. Similarly, the industry and the individual responsible exercise must be confronted with infringements of the law. It's a supervisory task to follow up on this, as I explained in my main response. It also applies to the new brand rules and unpackaged products. For my part, in relation to SNT, I want to make sure that information and follow-up on what kind of labelling you can do, and will do, is sufficient to implement this legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e888	I just want to refer to what we got information about when we dealt with this matter in Stortinget, that the problem of allergy is very extensive. It was then said that between 200,000 and 250,000 children have severe allergies, and that 40 pst. the population must visit doctors at least once a year due to allergies. And we have a sense that this is increasing. It was also said that 1.5-3 pst. the population may experience hypersensitivity reactions due to azocolourants. The question is whether we need more evidence now that the new substances we've been given increase the health risk, whether we feel that the risk is there for them to do so. We have heard that Denmark has said no to one of the food-making directives and that they have received support from the European Court of Justice. Should Norway wait longer for more evidence before joining Denmark and say that we know enough, that what our health authorities have said before is reasonable enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e895	The representative of Lund addresses the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Communities concerning Denmark and the addendum directives. The point where Denmark has been included does not apply to colouring matters, but – as is known – the limit values for nitrate and nitrite. So that's another question. But in this regard, I refer to what the Prime Minister said here in the spontaneous Question Time two weeks ago, that we are studying the judgment carefully from Norway. We will contact the Danish authorities on how they will deal with the EC judgment, and we will also assess our own actions in relation to what emerges from that process.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e904	I would like to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The majority of the Storting decided in December 2002 to grant tax exemptions to employers in order to cover treatment costs under sickness and treatment insurance. There is reason to believe that this will lead to an increase in the establishment of private hospitals. How many applications for the creation of private hospitals have been received since the New Year, and does the Council of State see any problems with such establishments as regards the objective of maintaining a decentralised structure for specialist health services?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e913	At the outset, I would like to remind you that the proportion of private hospitals in Norway is very modest in relation to the number of public hospitals. We've counted about 100 private hospitals and 13 000 public hospitals. Private health institutions are an important complement to public hospitals and are also an important corrigendum to them in terms of organisation and efficiency. The new reform of the Patient Rights Act proposes inter alia: extending patients’ right to free hospital choice to private hospitals that have entered into an agreement with regional health establishments. Since the New Year, nine applications have been made for the establishment of private hospital services. The applications are distributed with four applications from the health east, two from the health south, two from the health west, none from the health centre of Norway, and one from the health north. Of the applications in 2002, four were approved in the autumn of 2002 and two were now approved in 2003. The two hospitals that have so far been approved in 2003 belong to Health Nord and Health Mid-Norway respectively. This concerns Clinic Stokkan Tromsø as and Trondheim Specialist Medical Centre. This shows that there is a certain geographical spread with regard to the establishment of new private hospital activities. A prerequisite for the conclusion of an agreement with regional health establishments is that the private hospital is approved under the Specialist Health Service Act. Anyone who is to establish a private hospital establishment must apply to the Ministry of Health for approval. The application for authorisation shall be assessed on the basis of the need for the service for which authorisation is sought, whether it has been submitted for the proper use of healthcare professionals and whether the service is professionally sound. In addition, it is assessed whether the project takes account of social and health policy considerations. This will be considered, inter alia: geographical distribution of healthcare, health professionals and resources in general. In addition, localisation is assessed in relation to the already established and planned hospital structure. The application shall be sent to the county doctor and the Directorate for Social and Health, who shall carry out the professional treatment and assessment of the need. Furthermore, the application is also sent to the regional health undertaking for an opinion before the final examination of the application in the ministry. In relation to the thorough assessment – as I have described here – carried out in advance of an authorisation regarding both the need for the service offered, professional hygiene, location and use of healthcare professionals, consideration will be given to maintaining a desired hospital structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e926	I thank the Council of State for your answer. As the Council of State pointed out, there are several reasons why a person now receives a large amount of applications from private hospitals — and not just the specific decision before Christmas. The goal is to bring down hospital cows, and it is also a goal to have a decentralised hospital structure. Health West has just expressed a positive opinion about the establishment of two private clinics in Bergen. And it's worth noting that the applications for setting up private clinics are linked to our big cities. At the same time, the director is busy pointing to the consequences for the public hospitals of such a private establishment: the loss of highly qualified personnel and the loss of the most profitable patients. Thus, there is a danger that Health West’s own hospitals will be left standing with the most resource-intensive patients and expensive substitute fat – and eventually an even greater problem in getting the economy to jump. Is the Minister of Health said that public hospitals cannot compete on the same footing with private clinics, such as hospitals. do not have emergency services and costs related to research and training?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e937	I do not want to go into the evaluation of the two applications within the Health West to which the representative of Grande Røys now refers, because they are to be dealt with in the department. However, I can assure you that the considerations on which she is concerned will also form the basis for examining these applications, namely that the need for services, the proper use of health professionals and the overall geographical, health and social aspects will be assessed. One important point pointed out by the representative of Grande Røys is that public hospitals have a number of tasks that private hospitals do not have, among other things. in the field of education and research. And it is important to take into account in the assessments of the framework conditions of public hospitals. Nor am I a stranger to the fact that one should, for the future, impose teaching tasks on part of the private hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e944	I thank you again for your answer. We in SV are occupied with private, ideal hospitals as a good supplement to the public. But we don't want to defend a development like the one we're afraid to see now, where the private hospitals become more competitors than partners of our public hospital community. One such development we believe would be negative for our local hospitals, which are often located in the districts. The Chairman of Health West wrote that it is essentially what the Council of State now had at last, that it updates the question of not sharing this work between the private and the public must be given a more fundamental assessment of the Minister of Health associated with these applications. What it also writes – and I am aware that the directorate has said the same thing – is that, if one is to approve these clinics, it is important that private institutions can also participate in these research and education activities. Would the Minister for Health like to impose a requirement for such participation in any approval of the private clinics?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e953	As I said in my previous answer, I am not a stranger to the fact that in future cases the question of imposing educational tasks on some private hospitals can be assessed. As far as the principle is concerned, I must be clear and clear that the Government's position is that private hospitals are an important supplement and a corrective to the completely dominant public hospital that we have here in the country, and that there is broad political support for our need. I'm not as anxious about competition as the representative of Grande Røys now says she is. I believe that competition within the framework of regional health companies' responsibility can actually be healthy, because it will help hospitals to become better and more attractive compared to patients. It will contribute to a quality improvement for all patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e965	I will ask the Minister for Health the following question: ‘The emergency and ambulance services for Inner Laksfjord in the municipality of Lebesby have not yet been completed. The negotiating meeting between the municipality and the health company was agreed on 2 April 2003, but the health company’s representative indicated that he was not authorised to negotiate. This resulted in further deferrals to Easter before new contractual arrangements were made. Shouldn't the Council of State now decide who is both contractual and health-responsible?'
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e974	The responsibility for the proper emergency medical preparedness of the population of Inner Laksfjord lies with the regional health company in the municipality of Health Nord and Lebesby. This is true in Lebesby, just as it is for the rest of the country. Local emergency medical preparedness consists of several stages which together ensure a coherent supply to the population. The municipality is responsible for the organisation of general medical services so that the population has the opportunity to get in touch with doctors for immediate daily help. This also includes the responsibility of the medical centre. Health Nord is responsible for emergency medical number 113, AMK Central, and is responsible for ambulance service both by car, in current cases boat, and air ambulance service, which is an important complement to local emergency response. When Healthen Finnmark decided to close the ambulance in Kunes from 1 February, this was included in a comprehensive plan for the ambulance service in Finnmark, where the main aim was to meet a target of professional safety with two-man ambulances. The ambulance missions in the Kunes area have since been performed from the ambulance bases in Lakselv, Kjøllefjord/Mehamn and the rescue helicopter from the 330-square in Lakselv/Banak. I remember that this change was presented to the Health Authority in Finnmark and later dealt with by the State Health Authority. In both cases, it was concluded that the change was not irresponsible, but it was also assumed by the supervisory authorities that Health Finnmark and the City of Lebesby jointly look at alternative options to take care of the emergency medical competence and preparedness in the area. It was particularly the situation of bad weather in the winter months that was highlighted in this context. In my opinion, the responsible parties, the health company and the municipality have spent a long time finding a solution in this matter, and it has created uncertainty and uncertainty for the population. However, I can today inform Stortinget that there have been necessary meetings between the health company and the municipality, and that an agreement has now been negotiated that takes into account the elements that, among other things, apply. has been emphasised by the supervisory authorities and will now be dealt with in the formal bodies of the municipality. The terms of the agreement are as follows: A winter-stationed ambulance/society car will be established in Laksfjorden, which will be in operation for the period up to 15 May and thereafter in November and December 2003.The parties will continue to negotiate a solution for the summer and mid-2003 and, by the end of the year, they will negotiate a new agreement that will also apply from 2004.Health Finnmark will cover the costs of the car to be used for emergency medical missions following the call from AMK.Lebesby Municipality will provide support services and place heart starters and monitoring units in the emergency unit. Health Finnmark acquires and maintains other transportable emergency medical equipment that is placed in the car. It is important that health services have confidence in the population. There is a meeting between the patient and those providing the services. I am therefore pleased that the actors in this case have finally found solutions. I trust that they will continue to work on the matter in line with the leadership that has now been laid down.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e998	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am aware that after the question was submitted, there has been a certain movement in the matter, among other things. by the fact that Health Finnmark, by the Chairperson, has made contact with the Municipality. However, there is no adequate ambulance solution that has been developed, including: an arrangement for the summer half of the year remains to be agreed. After I have been referred to, Healthe Finnmark believes that the municipality must pay 400,000 – 500,000 kroner for operations during the summer period, in addition to being responsible for accompanying staff, emergency medical equipment, garage costs and some other practical things. It may not be a proper division of responsibilities and financial obligations. So I hope that the Minister of Health will take a new initiative to get the right solution here. It is also true that in the summer months, the population of Inner Laksefjord is much larger than in the winter months.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1005	I do not believe that the case or the responsible parties in this case are worthy of our lifting these negotiations into the main hall. The responsible parties have now come to an arrangement. It shall be dealt with in the formal bodies which must approve it. In my opinion, this arrangement takes into account what has prevailed in this case, namely to come up with a scheme that takes account of the views that, among other things, have been expressed. the supervisory authorities have. So the parties will have to negotiate a solution for the summer. By that I would say that I hope that a far too long process is now being carried on in a constructive path, which will provide a good solution for the population in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1014	I agree that such negotiations should not enter the Storting Hall, but when the starting point is at worst, there are also some original solutions and rounds before solutions are found that are acceptable. I think, among other things, that the letter of the Health Authority concerning the dietary benefit assessment of the ambulance service for Inner Laksfjord was quite hopeless. When you find out that it is not right to bet on an ambulance service here, I think it is an unheard of assessment. There should be an equivalent offer regardless of where you live and how many live there. Thus, there has to be a different solution for the ambulance service in Inner Laksfjord and the municipality of Lebesby than the one that has existed until now. The negotiations are not going in here, but I want the Minister of Health to make sure that a person gets a proper ambulance service for this area as well. According to information from rapporteur Harald Larssen to me, the municipality has said that it cannot stand behind and be satisfied with the ambulance service that health company Finnmark has described so far in its offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1021	I refer to the information I have received in this case, and I have no other reason to add than that I am confident that the responsible parties, who are the health company and the municipality, will find a good and agreed solution, so that this service can be provided in a satisfactory way for the population and in accordance with the guidance provided by the supervisory authorities in their opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1037	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1044	I would like to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘State Secretary Brit Skeldbreadde tells the NRK that ‘we asked professionals in the oil industry for advice before the investigation was published, but the oil industry has not affected the investigation’. Can the Council of State explain how oil companies were consulted on the impact assessment of petroleum activities in the Barents Sea, can it guarantee that other interested interests, such as environmental and fisheries interests, have the same opportunities to provide advice, and does the Council of State believe that this strengthens confidence in the conclusions of the investigation?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1053	The analysis of the consequences of all-year petroleum activities in the Lofoten-Barents Sea area, abbreviated ULB, has its background in the Sem Declaration. The Co-operation Board decided here that it wanted to carry out such an investigation before taking a position on further petroleum activities in the Lofoten-Barents Sea area. In order to operate a process such as the ULB, special competence is required. The Ministry itself does not have such competence. The Ministry therefore contacted and engaged the Norwegian Veritas to provide the secretariat for this investigation. Veritas is a well-reputed institution with extensive experience in conducting investigations such as the ULB. In order to ensure the best possible quality at all stages of the investigation process, the Secretariat has used a work form in which it has drawn on different resource persons with expertise in specific disciplines and experience from similar investigation processes. Some of these people are employed in consultancy companies and some in oil companies. These contacts were only about professional assistance from individuals and no consultation with the oil companies, as the representative Sørensen points out. The Norwegian Veritas has chosen to use this form of work only on the basis of a motive to ensure the best possible professional result in the investigation. This is not a form of work imposed by the Ministry. Those resource people who include people employed by oil companies have only given comments directly back to Veritas. Veritas has then made his own professional assessment of the recordings before being used in the further process. Only Veritas has had direct contact with the suppliers of the technical part-examinations. These have been free as to whether they will make changes in the light of these recordings. The investigators themselves are professionally responsible for the work being done. I have full confidence that Veritas has the integrity and professional competence to ensure that this form of work has not led to any undue influence on the ULB process. When critical questions have been asked by individual teams about such a procedure, suggesting that the professional conclusions of the sub-studies have changed, this is a mistake. The comments back to the investigators have essentially been on presentation and whether the assignment has been carried out according to the job description. I would like to take this opportunity to inform you that the Department will make available all the raw drafts from the sub-studies, input to the Secretariat and the correspondence between the Secretariat and the various professional bodies that have carried out the investigations. This is a comprehensive work, and it has our highest priority. We aim to ensure that this documentation will be available within a few days. In the case of interested parties, the possibility of making representations in the process, such as the representative Sørensen's demand, has been great. I have been very concerned that this investigation will be the subject of an open debate at all stages of the investigation process, and that all interested parties can make representations. It is as part of this that we have recently conducted a technical seminar in Tromsø with all interested parties. The final investigation will be sent to a three-month hearing in June. During this consultation period, too, the Ministry will organise on a broad basis meetings with interested parties, in line with what we did during the consultation of the proposal for the investigation programme. On the basis of this, I believe that there is no basis for drawing the conclusions of the ULB in doubt. The documentation we provide will show this. Nevertheless, in the light of the reactions that have come to this form of work, I have been informed that contact with the employees of the oil companies will not be used in the further work with the ULB. So the policy at this point has changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1074	I thank you for your answer. I particularly thank you for the last clarification that the practice has changed. So the impression that it was asked for advice was confirmed by Secretary of State Brit Skelebde – at least to the NRK, who brought the news where she, as I quoted, said that they asked professionals in the oil industry for advice. I am pleased that the practice needs to change, but I must say that the suspicion that a cultural problem has been present here is great. Nor can there be any doubt that it is unfortunate that this kind of suspicion is being sown that some people have better access to investigators than others. Does the Council share the view that it has been unfortunate? And is he sure that enough action has been taken to prevent similar unfortunate things from happening in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1083	I refer to what I said about the actual conditions, and that Veritas wanted to ensure the best possible quality at all stages of the investigation process and therefore used such a form of work. I also refer to what I said regarding the issues that have been the subject of such consultation. The conclusions have in no way been drawn, but on what has to do with the form of work and the device itself, and to ensure that it is well designed, and that one actually answers the questions asked. When it comes to the question of whether this is unfortunate, I would say that when there can be doubt about professional integrity, when there can be doubt about credibility, of course it is unfortunate. I think it is clear that something has been done in that direction, by the information I have now given, but precisely because I want to avoid taking this opportunity to doubt such an important document, I have drawn that conclusion. There's full openness in all parts of this process. The investigator is in favour of the technical conclusions, and all information will be fully available.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1092	I am particularly pleased that there is full transparency also about the contact that has been so far. Now you haven't had much time to go into the documents for the time being, but the input we've seen comes from the industry, and as we've seen coming from Veritas to the technical investigation, has been the input of the character: can you write a more positive introduction? They have also been told to produce things that the investigators themselves do not think are comprehensive enough to be called an impact assessment, which is more extensive than that for which there is a professional basis. Can the Council of State promise that, in the future, the professional bodies will not be pressured to refer to the work they have done as more extensive than that for which there is a professional basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1099	I just want to once again reject the fact that in this process there have been different professional conclusions or other priorities than those for which it is professionally based. I have every confidence that Veritas, in line with his standard of work and ethics, has put on the table what is here the actual information. Nor is there any basis for saying that this has in any way changed or coloured the conclusions. The information we are now prepared to open up to anyone who might be interested will show what I said now. That it has also been expressed wishes and views beyond what has been requested, I will not rule out. What's important is what's left, and what the professional investigators have taken into account. Then the representative Heidi Sørensen, all organisations and all those who may be interested, will see that this ULB has the professional integrity that is necessary as a decision-making basis for the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1109	I have a question for the Minister of Education and Research: ‘On 23 September 2002, the Government launched its action against bullying in Norwegian school. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Education promised that by 23 September 2004, there will be zero incidence of bullying and harassment in school. The objective is good; none of the approx. 40,000 children bullied in Norwegian school should be exposed to such degrading and unacceptable plagues. What is the status, and how will the State Council keep the Storting informed about the work to achieve the goal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1118	On 23 September last year, the Central Association of Municipalities, the Parental Committee of Primary Schools, the Federation of Education, the Children's Ombudsman and the Government signed a joint manifesto against bullying. The manifest does not in itself give any promise about the end of the bullying, as some seem to believe. However, the parties to the manifesto have a common vision of zero tolerance as the basis for their efforts. During the manifesto period up to September 2004, the parties will make specific efforts to reduce and prevent bullying. It is far too early to be able to say anything about the work until now has led to less bullying among children and young people. However, the learning centre has been commissioned to initiate an evaluation of the overall effort against bullying during the manifest period. The evaluation will provide us with: identified the presence of bullying-monitored actions undertaken locally and nationally by research-based studies assessing the impact of actions undertaken; The evaluation will provide research-based knowledge about and to what extent actions undertaken during the manifesting period have produced results in line with objectives and intentions. In-flight reports are submitted in December 2003 and May 2004 and a final report in December 2004. The Ministry will keep the Stortinget informed about the state and performance in the State budget, among others. I can otherwise inform you that the Council of State Laila Davay and the Ministry of Children and Family are actively involved in following up the manifest, so that attention is paid to all environments where children and young people live, kindergarten, school and leisure. Furthermore, tomorrow, 10 April, the parties will present a joint plan that demonstrates the overall efforts of the various parties to combat bullying. Many measures are and will be taken to combat bullying during the manifesting period. However, I would like to mention one measure that, in my view, will have a particular impact on the fight against bullying, namely the amendment of the Training Act of 1 April this year. Through the new chapter 9a of the Training Act on the School Environment of Students, pupils and parents have been given a better opportunity to influence the school environment, and they have been granted an extended right of appeal. The new rules also specify the duty of staff to take action against all forms of bullying and against the effects of violence, racism or discrimination. The Ministry has prepared guidance on the new changes to the Training Act. Bullying is a very serious problem for many children and young people that we must all take seriously. It's about values, attitudes and leadership. We adults must be clear and take responsibility. That might be the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1143	I thank you for your answer. Of course, applications are important to get this obscurity out of the way. Of course, legislative changes, such as the Council of State, may also be important and useful. was in the answer. But the point is that within existing legislation, i.e. the Training Act §§2-9 and 3-7, it is a regulation that provides both the owner, school management and the adults in the school room of action, if they want to use the space of action, if they are interested, if they want to listen, and if they are willing to see. Does the government have the impression that the owners, the principals and the teachers are using this space of action, regardless of the special programs offered to combat bullying? Does the Council have the impression that the owners are interested, that the school administration is willing to listen more than before, and that the school teachers are willing to see more than before? After all, there is no lack of feedback that they have not done so in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1148	I absolutely believe that it's an improvement potential, and basically I think this is a lot about us adults, our attitudes and our willingness to lead and to see what's happening. And I also indirectly very much agree with Mr. Sortevik that the school regulations, both as they actually look, and the process of creating them, are a very important measure. Although this is a potential for improvement, I think an interim state report we have received from the Learning Centre gives many positive signals. Now there's only 22 municipalities per. On 31 December, they reported that they did not do anything to prevent and manage bullying. 310 municipalities had entered into regular cooperation with the supervisors on this matter. 303 municipalities cooperated with the pupil councils accordingly. 13 counties had their own action plans. If we look at the number of schools, it might seem very high, even if we don't have a final number yet. So it looks like it's a pretty high level of activity. Whether everyone does the right things or has the full effort, I'm not able to judge that, I think that's an improvement potential.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1155	First of all, I note from answer No. 1 that it will probably take a little longer than the government proclaimed when the action was started. I hope that the Council of State will be able to confirm that the Storting can get a notice of this when this period of action is over, i.e. towards the indicated time in the autumn of 2004, and then consider further progress. In addition, I would like to ask if the Council of State can imagine a scheme with a school representative that can help desperate parents, because it is still, in fact, so that although there is now more focus on bullying and measures against bullying in Norwegian school, everyday life is so that many people are still struggling with the problems. I still have enquiries, I had the last contact today from suspicious parents who feel that they are not supported either by the supervisory authority or by school management. Then a way can be to establish a school representative, so that parents and students have a place to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1162	I have to repeat that it is a misunderstanding that we have promised zero incidence of bullying, especially within this timeframe. Personally, I believe that such guarantees cannot be issued, and I think that too is rather unrealistic. But we have to have a vision of this, we have to clearly communicate that bullying is unacceptable, and I didn't think it was right that we should have a goal that we should have some bullying. The goal and the vision must be zero bullying. I take a positive view of the school ombudsman scheme in the sense that it is established in a number of municipalities and counties, and as far as I understand, there are quite positive results with it – and municipalities and counties are free to appoint such representatives. At national level, I will come back to how I believe that the supervisory function should be and should be improved in the future, in the context of the revised national budget. I am not prepared here and now to promise a message when this period is over, but I will promise to keep the Storting orientated in a good way, and to facilitate a good debate here in Stortinget on the issue of bullying.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1178	I would like to ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: «In the Glaamdalen newspaper of 2 and 3 April d.o.b. can we read that some students at a secondary school in Solør use different types of drugs [[baptized]] Does the Council of State take seriously this problem, and what will the Council of State do to remove it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1187	The use and possession of drugs is a criminal offence in Norway. Whether such use occurs in schools, as indicated in the articles to which the representative of Bredvold refers, school management and school owners are obliged to intervene. Good and established local cooperation between school and home, child protection, social services, health services and the police is required if drug abuse is detected. On 1 April this year, a new Chapter 9a of the Training Act on the School Environment of Students was introduced. The following provisions shall be adopted: ‘All pupils in primary and secondary schools are entitled to a good physical and psychosocial environment that promotes health, well-being and learning.’ This chapter will have an impact on the school's obligation to respond to possible drug abuse in schools. I would particularly like to point out Section 9a-4, which gives the schools an obligation to carry out a continuous and systematic work to promote health, the environment and safety in school. If there is a risk of drug problems at school, the school should, in accordance with this provision, have a plan for dealing with such problems. At the same time, targeted efforts are needed to prevent drug use. The primary school curriculum contains a number of drug prevention topics, both in the curricula for subjects and as their own thematic areas. Prevention is most effective when it is adapted to local conditions and challenges in each school. In October 2002, the government presented an action plan on drug problems 2003–2005. One of the main objectives of the plan is to prevent all types of drug use, with specific efforts being made to prevent drug use among children and young people. Children and young people are in a special position as regards the use of drugs and the negative consequences of such use. They are more vulnerable than adults and have less opportunity to influence their own situation. Through the action plan, the government has proposed several measures to strengthen the fight against drug abuse. I would like to mention, among the current measures to prevent drug abuse in school: knowledge-based drug education focusing in particular on social skills and mastery of pupils’ active parental participation in learning children and young people’s rules and techniques in order to be sufficiently safe on its own to say no to trying to drug the police, in cooperation with schools, to inform pupils and parents about the consequences of drug use The Educational Centre is working closely with the Social and Health Directorate on the follow-up to the Action Plan. The learning centre has also set up a separate learning and learning environment website, where work on drug abuse is a separate theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1218	I thank the Council of State for a good and informative response, including: on what the Training Act says in a new chapter 9a-4, where this problem of drug abuse is taken seriously and when it says that the school has a duty to carry out continuous and systematic work to promote health, the environment and safety at school. But I'm not quite convinced that that's enough. I think a lot of people have to get into a job here – among other things. parents and homes, as the council says, and not least the police. My question to follow-up is: how does the Council of State think the police and officers' seat should be integrated into this work? Can the Council of State imagine free access at any time to the school's area, both to carry out guidance work, to remove what is illegal, and not least to carry out preventive work?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1227	My general impression is that the cooperation between the various public agencies, and in particular the cooperation between home and school, is very important, but that it operates to varying degrees around the country. In some places, cooperation between public agencies works on issues such as: children and young people, very well, elsewhere it works badly. It is important that it works well in order to prevent such problems that are not purely school-based. These are absolutely cross-sectoral problems. At the same time, I think it is important to start cooperation on a local basis based on the local challenges you face. Just as the community that Bredvold's representative refers to has had its problems, and in view of that one is of course afraid. Then you also have to deal with the problem in the light of that. Cooperation with the police is important. I think a lot of schools are inviting the police to visit. More could probably have done it. As far as police matters are concerned, what can be done more in the direction of coercive measures must be taken into account that students and apprentices are subject to the same laws and regulations as the general public.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1236	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's true that this is a big problem. This can be done, among other things: See the local approach to which I referred today, where it is said that four syringes have been found on the school path that, among other things, first-rate users. A new follow-up question to the Council of State: can any financial means be provided to prevent this problem? There is a lot of positive work done by parents and others, among others. by the Night's Night's Night's Night's Night's Night's Night's Night's Eve, walking around and looking after youth. Clearly, young people in this age group are very vulnerable. It's easy to be tempted to try different things, and you might need a little more adult help and adult contact. Does the Council see that there may be some way to help adults who will try to reduce this problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1245	I have deep respect for the concern of the local community in Solør. However, I have to add that I am not aware that drug abuse has taken place in the school itself. But it is clear that the school route is also a place to be safe. That's why it means that we other adults, other than adults who are employed at school, have to take responsibility. The representative, Mr Bredvold, is asking for financial resources here. I guess I have a feeling that we're in an area where maybe more departments could have given an answer. In the case of the Ministry of Education and Research, there is a lot of resources and much guidance in terms of the psychosocial learning environment of the students, in other words physical. The learning centre is here the Executive Etate. There's a lot of guidance. However, funds are also provided to strengthen the fight against racism, discrimination and bullying and to create good learning environments. I want to say that this is related.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1255	I will ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: ‘People with language and speech difficulties have rights under both the Training Act and the People’s Security Act. Measures for this group take place through the provision of education by the municipality and the private ‘logoped market’. Funding goes through the municipalities and the people's rights. [[municipal staff]] There is a need to coordinate and place overall responsibility. Will the Council of State take the initiative to give the municipalities a coordination responsibility which also provides the municipalities with a financing basis based on what is currently used by the public interest?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1264	First I want to give a description of the current right in the area. Under the Training Act, pupils with language and speech difficulties in primary and secondary schools are entitled to adapt to training, if appropriate special education if, after expert judgement, students do not receive satisfactory benefits from the regular language and speech training. The right to special education may also include, inter alia: logo help. The rights under the Training Act therefore mean that, in most cases, the municipalities and county councils, based on the Training Act, will be responsible for the expenditure of logoped services for pupils with language difficulties. The responsibility for providing logopedic services lies with municipalities for children before school age, for primary school students and for adults. The county councils are responsible in the case of secondary school students. The rights under the Education Act in the case of secondary education are conditional on being a student in secondary school. Therefore, the county does not have responsibility for logopedic measures for young people who are not students in secondary school. These are currently entitled to reimbursement for logo assistance expenses under the Social Security Act § 5–10. This is related to the provisions of the Law on Social Security that, in so far as the public provides benefits under other legislation, no benefit is to be provided under Chapter 5 of the Law on Social Security, cf. Paragraphs 5 to 1 of the Law on Social Security. So to the specific question from the representative of Rikvam: I can tell you that the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Health are working on this matter with a view to coordinating this field. It is too early to say anything about the result of this work, so I am not prepared here and now to draw a final conclusion. But priority No. 1 is that the solution chosen should be for the benefit of the users.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1277	I thank you for your answer. I am a little surprised that one is not clearer about the fact that this must be a municipal responsibility. This is due simply to the fact that the Training Act places responsibility for the right of both children and adults to training in municipalities. I had therefore perhaps expected that the Council of State would have been reasonably clear that this as it is now formulated in the Training Act is a municipal responsibility. This also applies to coordination responsibilities, which are now clearly needed because there are a number of municipalities that are putting this on the agenda. That might be a statement, but I think it's right that it's done in some cases. Therefore, it is absolutely central that we are able to say that this is a municipal responsibility, this is what the municipalities are supposed to do. And if we decide to do that, it's also important that the municipalities get the resources that today go into this service by other means. If we manage to assign this responsibility to the municipalities and at the same time transfer resources to the municipalities, I am absolutely convinced that this is going to be the very best arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1286	It is clear that I was not prepared to draw a final conclusion here. But I can tell you that I have great sympathy for the views expressed by the questioner here, and that there is a lot of talk that should be considered. There may be technical reasons for this, but not least the need for coordination, on which the representative of Rijkam is involved. The problem with the responsibility of the people's fear in this context is that it is purely a financial responsibility. Social security offices are not responsible for the planning, development and operation of logoped services. I almost just have to ask for respect for that we need a little bit more time to conclude. However, we aim to conclude relatively quickly, and I report that I believe that the representative Rikvam gives a very wise view here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1295	I'm happy to get this certificate from the Council of State, so I think I've come far enough now. I am then waiting for further treatment in the department and cooperation on this. So thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1302	We're going back to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1308	This question, from Knut Storberget's representative to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1311	‘The aim of the policy reform is to increase the number of police resources allocated to most people where crime is committed. It is still being spoken, including: in Vinger and Odal District Court judgment of 24 March 2003, Case 03-00055M, that the reform contributes to a weakened search in the districts, and that the Länsmann offices are now under threat. Is the police’s response in the districts weakened, and how does the Council of State assess the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1318	There is no basis for claiming that ‘the reform contributes to a weakened search in the districts and is now under threat’. Let me underline: one of the key objectives of the reform is to build more powerful and autonomous districts. That's what we're about to achieve. We are now in the middle of the implementation of the reform. The processes of change in progress are demanding, but also absolutely necessary. These include a wide range of actions, the purely structural reorganisations of police districts, and operational, technological and labour-process changes in order to bring together a better and more service-providing police. In the case of Hedmark Police District, the number of police stations and county police offices, their location and the total number of posts remain unchanged following the merger of the three former police districts that today constitute Hedmark Police District. The police officer has informed that the police service is under ongoing review in relation to the main objectives of the police reform, which form the basis for planning the overall police service. This includes, inter alia: coordination of administrative and joint operational tasks, combined with a reduction in the number of administrative posts to contribute to more public service, including investigation and prosecution of criminal offences. It is underlined by the Directorate of Police that such a far-reaching reform is, of course, demanding in the implementation phase, but cannot be said to have resulted in a weakening of the research capacity in the district. On the contrary, it is emphasised that the reform has resulted in increased active service in several districts, which has enabled immediate investigation and more rapid criminal proceedings. The chief of police in Hedmark further informs us that the police reform has not affected the investigation in the specific matter to which it refers. On the contrary, the police in Hedmark have been able to work in the area of organised crime/border crime to a greater extent than in the past, and considerable efforts have been directed towards this field of work in the last year. Substantial crime has been detected in this area, and a number of cases have been resolved following successful investigations, including in the United Kingdom. through the active use of the new methods of investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1331	I thank you for your answer. We are at least pleased with the starting point of the government from the Workers' Party, which is now announced in the answer. But I think you should be aware that it is about to attach itself to an impression, both in the media and among the people most, that the reform contributes to the police becoming more inaccessible. There are several ringing bells, and the police officer will be longer when you are in an emergency. That's what people get. This is not just a problem in Hedmark, but it is also a problem for the whole country to the extent that it should happen. A signal that this minister can bring with him to the Government and to the Minister of Justice must be that now we must ensure that the reform does not in itself contribute to the weakening of the legitimacy of the police – and again the weakening of power – so that we actually get something out of it and not just get an increase in the budget, but that we can maintain the police activity that is very necessary in the districts as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1340	The first phase of the police reform has been completed and the activity has been completed in accordance with the deadline given by the Ministry. A good basis for meeting the main objectives of police action is provided in phase one, as laid down in the Single European Act. A final evaluation has been added to the 2004–2005 turn of the year, and I must again stress that we are now in the middle of the implementation of the reform. For my part, I would say that I have never really seen as much police available in my district as after the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1347	I thank you again for the answer. Finally, I will be allowed to comment that it is a problem for most people to see an increase in border-related crime in the districts, an increase in environmental crime, and an increase in what can be called street crime, i.e. that the criminals become more mobile. For example, when the bank broke into Folldal, it was felt that there were no policemen who could go out to check the crime scene. There are many small and larger places that actually don't see as many policemen as the Social Minister has clearly seen. What is my signal, and which perhaps does not require any response, is that we must now ensure that the process itself does not contribute to the weakening of trust in the Norwegian police, but that we also ensure that the small number of police officers now serving Norwegian officers' offices is maintained. It might be interesting if the government would confirm that the number of police officers in the county offices will be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1356	I fully share the questioner's concerns regarding trust in the police. People should be safe from what they experience as their community environment, and, of course, the development of crime is something that the Government takes seriously. In my main answer, I actually confirmed that with regard to the current question from the representative of Storberget, it is such that Hedmark Police District is unchanged after the merger of the three former police districts that today make up Hedmark Police District – it is police stations, Länsmannskontoret, location and the total number of posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1363	So we go back to question 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1370	My question goes to the Minister of Social Affairs: ‘The 2003 budget position of the Social Committee states in the Roman Numeral Decision V: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess how one can secure the economic basis of the Velferd magazine.’ According to the letter from Velferd to the State Secretary Risebrokken on 31 March with a copy to me, the Ministry of Social Affairs, in a letter dated 11 March, states that the 2003 allocation is a transitional arrangement. Can the Council of State explain whether she has understood the decision in Stortinget as a proposal for a transitional arrangement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1379	From 1 January 2003, the Riksstrøgdeverket has cancelled its collective subscription to the Velferd magazine and has left it to each county agency and social security office to order the number of copies they need. In the dialogue between the Rikstrøgdeverket and the magazine Velferd, questions have been raised on several occasions about the role of the Rikstrøgdeverket as the pillar of funding for the magazine Velferd. The magazine Velferd is published by the Social Security Foundation and is a unique meeting place for users, social scientists and employees in the welfare country. In line with the decision of the Social Committee, I have assessed several ways of securing the economic basis of the magazine. The Ministry of Culture and the Church grants earmarked grants to ‘different publications’. The funds are allocated for 2003, and support is among others: Give to the morning leaf, the people, day and time, New times, Blink, Samaria, freedom, and clear speech. The Velferd magazine will therefore not be able to receive support for this allocation in 2003. The Ministry discloses that they are currently assessing this plan. Based on contact with the Ministry of Culture and the Church, I have recommended Velferd magazine to apply for grants for 2004 as soon as possible. Such an application will be considered together with the other publications applying for financial assistance under this item. This could be a more lasting solution for the Velferd magazine. However, there has been a need to find a temporary solution to the difficult economic situation of the magazine before they can seek more permanent solutions. I have therefore provided the necessary resources for operation this year in 2003. The Ministry is otherwise aware that the journal has launched recruitment campaigns and that this has produced good results. Among other things, several county employment offices and social security offices have subscribed. In the longer term, the magazine challenge is to find alternative sources of funding and new user groups to ensure the economic basis for its existence.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1399	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which is not an answer to my question at all. The other magazines are less interested in this. I have to ask the Council of State if the department is able to read inwards. The decision in Stortinget made it clear that the magazine Velferd was to be secured for the future and not just in a transitional arrangement for 2003. On several occasions I have registered that this government does not take very seriously all the decisions the Stortingen makes, and that must actually end. Can the Minister of Social Affairs here and now assure us that the magazine Velferd will also ensure financial operations in the coming years? It is Storting’s will that this stand-alone critical magazine continue to come out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1410	The Storting asked the Government to consider how one can secure the financial basis for the magazine Velferd. We have done so, including: by ensuring the operation of 2003 and, at the same time, by looking at the wider solutions for 2004 and the support schemes in relation to this type of journal. I have followed up the Storting's decision by considering how one can secure the magazine both for this year and for the time after. However, what is real is the commitment of the Progress Party to this matter. The 2001–2005 Progress Party programme just says that the Progress Party will: ‘1. Competition of newspapers and periodicals in the same line without State aid.2. The fact that the individual newspaper and the individual journal are to determine their own form of funding, whether it is made with grants and gifts from organisations and individuals, by advertisements, or by ransom and subscription receipts.» In this respect, the commitment of the Progress Party to this matter contrasts somewhat with that of the Progress Party programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1426	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm going to think that I know the programme of the Advance Party better than the Council of State does. It is not at all relevant in this context. As I see it, the Social Minister and the Department have not followed up the clear and unambiguous decisions of the Storting. There's only one thing left to do, and that's that the same number of magnifications obliges the government to secure this magazine's financial future. I will undertake to make sure that is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1435	We have followed up the decision of Storting. We have secured the issue for 2003, and there are further arrangements for 2004. I do not doubt that the Progress Party and the head of the Social Committee know the programme of the Progress Party better than the undersigned, but I can also read inwards. This means that the programme of the party implies that journals are to compete in a level playing field without State aid. In this sense, the follow-up is something real.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1443	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: «During the treatment of budget revenue. S. No 11 for 2001-2002 the Stortinget decided to ask the Government to develop an action plan to ensure that all young people with disabilities who wish to do so have been moved out of the elderly institution by the end of 2005. Work was to be done in cooperation with user organisations. So far, according to my information, this has not happened. Can we expect the Council of State to come back to this during the examination of the action message for disabled people announced in May 2003?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1452	The Ministry shall follow up the decision of the Grand Duchy in the budgetary procedure. S. No 11 for 2001-2002. In 2001, the Migration Centre carried out a survey in the municipalities showing that 161 persons under the age of 50 were living in old-age and sick homes at the time. The user organisations were critical of the investigation because they considered that the users had not been heard. They also believed that the number of people who wanted to move out was higher than that shown by the Resource Centre's surveys. The Ministry carried out a new survey of the number of disabled people under the age of 50 who live in older institutions and who actually want to move out. To meet the requirements of user organisations, I considered it important that users themselves should be asked what they want as far as possible. In order to gain more knowledge of this and to assess the choice of measures, the county authorities have carried out a survey. Work started in November/December 2002. All statesmen have now given feedback to the ministry. User organisations will be invited to a meeting, for example, in a short time. to be briefed on the outcome of the screening and to provide input on target actions. The work of providing young people with a strong need for help living in old-age and infirm homes, an alternative offer in owner-occupied housing, is a priority task. No young disabled person should live in a nursing home against his will. I would like to explain further in the big-time communication on disability policy how many young people with disabilities live in old-age and sick homes and how many of these people want a different housing offer. Furthermore, in the Communication, as far as possible, I will present the further process of developing actions for the target audience.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1463	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but it was not an answer to the question I asked. I asked questions about the action plan adopted by Stortinget in connection with the action plan for disabled people that we receive in May. It is possible that the Council of State is not informed of the work that has been done and that has been handed over to the Department. As early as last May, the FFO and Norway’s Handicap Association delivered proposals for an action plan and proposals for measures that could get disabled people out of old-age homes. Is the Council of State aware of the work done by these organisations and of the content of the work that has already been handed over to the Ministry? Can the Council of States also answer my question about a return to an action plan in connection with the May communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1470	Yes, I am familiar with that, and I also mentioned in my main response that the user organisations were very critical of the study that was available from 2001. They considered that the users had not been heard, and they also pointed out a number of measures. So they weren't satisfied with the investigation, and on the basis of that, precisely because they were not directly asked, we have chosen to do a new investigation and get a review where the goal has been to talk and hear with the individual. We are now aiming for a meeting with the organisations of disabled people in this matter as soon as possible. We have just received the summary from the statesmen, and we believe that it makes more sense that we brief the organisations and discuss actions with them before we present the Stortingen to the figures. In any case, these figures will be presented in the Single European Act on disability policy. And as I said at the end of my main response, in the message, I will present as far as possible the further process of developing actions for the target audience.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1475	It seems that all the time is spent investigating and investigating to find some figure instead of following the decision of the Stortinge, for the Stortinge decision reads as follows: ‘The Government, in cooperation with the user organisations, is asked to draw up an action plan setting out measures to ensure that all young people with disabilities who wish to do so have been moved out of the elderly institution by the end of 2005.’ The longer it goes, the shorter time it will be left to comply with the Storting decision. And it's in this context that we're asking for the action here. The number of young people with disabilities in institutions around them is one part of the problem. But the most important thing is that there are already some people who have clearly expressed their desire to move out. And that has not been grasped by the Government, despite the decision of the Storting. My question to the Minister of Social Affairs will be as follows: Can the Council of State from this pulpit now at least promise that by the end of May at the latest, the organizations will be called in to this meeting, so that we can have a progress in this matter presented in the spring session?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1487	As I mentioned, we aim for a meeting with the disabled people's organisations as soon as possible. One thing is the numbers, but the measures should be taken, and then it is also important that we have more information. That's what the organizations were critical of, because it's different wants, and there's different needs, but it's also different registration. And the reason why we chose to do a new survey, despite the fact that some organisations also thought it unnecessary, is that there are measures to count. I fully agree with the representative, and then we must also have a realistic picture of the situation. Some users are registered as institutional residents, while they actually live in an organised housing, such as: a children's home or a residence for autists. These are ordinary dwellings which the municipality has chosen to regulate as a residence under the social services law and which are therefore defined as an institution in the statistics. In addition, some residents do not want to move or are not considered to benefit from a separate housing offer. We're going to have a meeting with the organisations, but the measures are also going to take, and they're going to be right.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1518	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1524	This question, from Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1527	I would like to ask the following questions to the Council of State: ‘In February and June 2000, the Board of Governors of the City of Bergen decided that a public service field should be reserved in the four-field entry years. Trials adopted have not yet been carried out because the State Road Service has not dealt with the case. A representative of the Vegvesenet admitted to the Bergensavisen on 27 March that the treatment had not yet started – more than three years after the first decision. Is it acceptable that the Vegvesen should deal with the decisions of the City Council in such a way, and what will the Council of State do to advance the process?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1536	A number of measures have been and will be implemented to improve public transport conditions in Bergen. There are currently significant collective works in the Kokstad/Sandsli area along the entrance from Flesland, which will be completed next year. Total investment in collective actions in the area will be about 170 million. kr. Work on collective prioritisation has also started in the Bergen Centre, among others. with new collective fields. Highlight-crossing priority has been implemented for buses in more than 50 signal-controlled crossings in the city. In the recently adopted Bergen Programme for Transport, Urban Development and the Environment, more than half of the investment framework of SEK 4.3 billion goes over the next ten years to collective actions, measures for soft road users, environmental and centre upgrading. In connection with the examination of the Climate Action Plan for Bergen on 28 February 2000, Bergen adopted the following urban governance: ‘In order to improve the accessibility of public transport in the main entry years, where there are four fields, one of the fields should be reserved for public transport during the rush period. Consideration should be given to allowing useful traffic to access the public fields through such a conversion.’;» The State Road Service has assessed proposals to reserve one field of public transport on these roads in Rushtida, and considers that this would not be beneficial for public transport as a whole. The reason for this is that the proposal will greatly reduce the availability of all traffic in the years of entry, thus transferring significant volumes of traffic to the secondary road network, where the majority of public transport is closed. This will reduce the availability of buses if the proposal is implemented. An alternative which, however, can improve both the conditions of public transport and the traffic management overall on these roads is a so-called ‘co-operation area’. This means that one field in each direction of multi-field roads is reserved for public transport and passenger cars with two or more persons. Experience from Trondheim shows that this both improves the accessibility of buses and reduces the number of people driving alone in a private car. The Ministry of Transport therefore asked the Directorate of Road in October 2002 to introduce co-operation fields in northern entry years to Bergen and to assess the introduction of co-operation fields also in other entry years to Bergen with a multi-field road. Last month, two alternative proposals on areas of co-operation in the north of the river were sent at public hearings. If the outcome of the consultation round provides a basis for this, the State Road Administration will aim to establish a co-operation field on the route during this year. Public transport is a very important part of the Bergen programme in the coming years. The Ministry of Transport will therefore again ask the State Road Administration to keep pace with work, for example. co-operation fields in Bergen, and rapid progress in the assessment of co-operation fields also in other entry years. Although there is ongoing cooperation at several levels between the parties in the Bergen programme, I would specifically ask the State Road Administration to engage in dialogue with the municipality of Bergen to get progress on the matter in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1558	I'm glad of the last signal from the Council of State. Nevertheless, the answer was a summary of things that I know, and of many good things about the plans for public transport in Bergen that I agree with. But what is important to address in this matter is the fact that a decision has been taken by the City Council for three years without the State Road Administration having taken it up. It was only after a few weeks ago that the newspaper said that the matter was sent out at the hearing. There are many in Bergen – and I agree with them – who believe that this type of procedure is a small scandal, and we cannot understand how the case has been broken for so long. I wonder whether the Council of State agrees that this type of procedure is unsustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1565	It is well apparent from the last part of my answer that the Ministry of Transport will ask the Swedish Road Administration to keep pace with work on, among other things. collaborative fields in Bergen, and engage in dialogue with Bergen-mune about getting progress in this matter in an appropriate way. Now, this is one of several areas in which conditions relate specifically to public transport in the Bergen area. A lot of work has been done, including: in the case of work on collective priorities on a continuous national road in the Bergen centre, where collective fields are to be established at the outer edge of the route. It is also the case that the buses today are given priority in a completely different form. In 52 of the city’s signal crossings and in many other ways, buses are given priority by roadside detectors, and on many buses buses the ‘green wave’ is given at the expense of crossing car flows. There are also several relationships within this area that I will not go further into here. However, the representative has raised a question that the Ministry considers important in relation to case management, and there will also be renewed contact.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1572	I think it is a positive signal, and I am pleased with that answer. We also hope that this signal will lead to action by the Ministry of Transport, so that we can get ahead of this process. I'm assuming that's going to be the result. If we don't get to pick it up at a time when the Minister of Transport has the opportunity to meet in Stortinget. I thank you for your answer. I don't really need any further follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1579	If the query is satisfied, then nothing better.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1584	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-09.ana.ud1546e1595	There is no record.
