ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-03-lower.ana.ud1428e48	In this case, there is a unanimous committee that adheres to the legislative changes that the Government is presenting, so this could be a short debate – what we're going to see. The proposals put forward in the proposal are intended to make the planning of municipalities more efficient and predictable, while taking into account quality and thoroughness. It is an objective that the Committee agrees with. Several reports have shown that society can save significant amounts if planning and construction processes become more efficient. On the other hand, excessive urgency and poor planning may involve costs. On the basis of an overall assessment, the Committee supported the Government's proposal to divide the proceedings into five stages, with time-limits at the appropriate stages. Planning is a complex and important area, and the Planning and Building Act has many opinions about it. However, we will have a good opportunity to come back to that. The Plan Law Committee is scheduled to finish its long-term work this spring, and the Committee expects that we will get a case under the Planning and Building Act as a whole. In this context, the Committee in this case does not promote any legislative changes in addition to those promoted by the Government in the proposal. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that the Committee has some comments, including: that it is important that municipalities have good overall plans that provide clear guidance for detailed plans. Here, too, there are comments relating to pre-conferences, etc., but I do not need to stand here and refer to all the comments, because we assume that the ministry has already read them thoroughly, and that the Government will take this into account in its further work on the revision of the Planning and Building Act. With this I would recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-03-lower.ana.ud1428e65	When Odelstinget deals with proposals for simplification in the Law on Planning and Building, I look at it with pleasure. The government is taking an active step for a simpler Norway. Users, whether individuals or businesses, are placed in focus. Clear deadlines for public proceedings, user predictability and better use of public authorities' resources are an important part of the modernisation work under way by the Government and should provide us with better public services for the large resources currently used in the public sector. The proposal we are discussing today is just one of several proposals for simplifications from the Government. Before Christmas, Odelstinget discussed proposals for simplification in the Planning and Building Act in the Ministry of Local Affairs, and last week we adopted simplifications in the Pollution Act. There is a need for a more efficient and predictable process of dealing with regulatory plans. Long and bureaucratic planning helps to increase the cost to users, especially for the construction of new dwellings, but also for other measures. In a number of municipalities, especially in the press areas, the treatment of regulatory proposals takes a long time. Not only is this beneficial to the builder and buyer, but it also leads to a lack of consistency between the supply and demand for new dwellings, which helps to push up housing prices. For several years, the focus has been on the high housing prices in the press areas and the high entry ticket on the housing market, leading to this for young people to establish themselves. It is therefore important that regulatory proposals be dealt with quickly and efficiently so that new dwellings can be built quickly to meet the pressure in the housing market. The introduction of clear deadlines for dealing with regulatory proposals is therefore also a good social policy. The question of development agreements in which the builder has to undertake to charge all or part of the public infrastructure for the adoption of its regulatory proposal is a matter on which the Committee has been concerned. Such development agreements can be a useful complement to regulatory plans in order to provide good solutions for both the municipality and the builder. The agreement may clarify requirements, simplify processes, create predictable propulsion plans and quickly implement a development project. In recent years, however, the use of development agreements has changed character in many municipalities, and this is particularly true of municipalities that experience large relocations and thus large pressure for expansion. Some municipalities have started to require contributions from builders to cover the social infrastructure of the municipality, such as schools, kindergartens and nursing homes, in order to approve development. The reason for this is that the expansion triggers the need for such investment, and many municipalities claim that they do not have the opportunity to finance it through their own budgets. The right believes that there is a limit to what can be included in a development agreement. The practice we see in a number of municipalities contributes to increasing housing costs. The financing of social infrastructure is a public task and the costs should not be borne by home purchasers. It is important that construction costs are kept at an acceptable level so that housing prices are not pushed up. The possibility of adding additional costs to development agreements should therefore be limited. The right is therefore pleased that the Government has announced that it will come back with a review of the issue of development agreements in the forthcoming major urban announcement. Abuse of development agreements should not weaken the important work of simpler and more reasonable planning and thus less pressure on housing prices, which we want to achieve through the present legislative amendment. Right supports Government amendment proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-03-lower.ana.ud1428e86	The center part and SV have a special comment that puts us critically into a few areas in relation to the setting, but we also support the setting. One thing goes about the use of development agreements, which one might think must be limited. But now we know that the government will come back to this later, and then we'll do it again. The second is that one introduces time limits for proceedings. It makes sense that you're going through it properly. The problem is that with the government you now have, you have a very tight local economy, which causes some municipalities to have problems keeping the deadlines you set. It is good to have temptations, but then, if the municipality is unable to give priority to this area, there is a risk that the procedure will not be good enough. Therefore, it is important that a revised budget looks at how to strengthen the economy of the municipalities, so that the building can be speeded up, while at the same time not doing anything slow afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-03-lower.ana.ud1428e95	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 434]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-03-lower.ana.ud1428e111	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions by members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-03-lower.ana.ud1428e120	It is important that all good forces are put in place to create a better and healthier working life, for the benefit of individual workers, for individual activities and for society as a whole. The Intention Agreement on an inclusive working life has clear objectives such as reducing sick leave, getting more people with reduced working capacity into work and increasing the real retirement age. It is therefore important, as the Ministry suggests, that the concrete work to achieve these objectives is mainly done in individual activities. There is every reason to believe that the working environment, both through physical design and psychosocial factors, may have much to say about the absence of a sick person. Work must therefore be done in a good dialogue between employers and employees. The active and close dialogue between employers and employees is essential if individual workers are to focus on the performance of their tasks. In such a dialogue, the employee can help with information about his/her function and discuss with employers possible measures to improve the situation. It is also important to make it more profitable to facilitate employment so that the worker can continue in working life. And it's a paradox that even though unemployment is high, there's a shortage of labour in many industries. To achieve these goals, appointments must be actively followed up in each operation. It involves targeted work, willingness to achieve results, time for conversation and follow-up, cooperation, openness and respect for each other as equivalent parties. Trustees will have a particularly important role to play in contributing to a good and evolving working environment, while at the same time helping the individual health care provider in discussions with the management and design of interventions. It is equally important that workers with specific responsibilities for unemployment also acquire the necessary skills in the working environment and in matters of protection. This is important in order to follow-up those who are in need of medical attention. People with health problems are said to be more easily pushed out of the labour market when there are downtimes than when there are uptimes. There is a danger that the level of activity and thus the pressure on individual workers will increase. We know from the research that this may increase the risk of injury or other health problems. In this way, the absence of sick people is likely to increase. In my opinion, the pressure on the labour market is an important reason for the growth of sick leave. Many researchers are concerned about this, namely the relationship between the working environment and the pressure factors. The absence of sickness and the number of disability are still rising. I have mentioned some reasons. Other reasons may require constant readjustments. We know that, along with new forms of organization, this in many ways gives turbulence and loads that seem exclusive. We still lack a lot of knowledge about cause and context, both inside and outside the job. Work is the most important action to combat poverty. That is why it is so important to get ahead of this work. Today we take a big and positive step in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-03-lower.ana.ud1428e139	I share the view that there is a clear need for systematic sick leave and organisation work to be placed on the agenda of businesses even more than is the case today. That is why an amendment to Section 14 of the Working Environment Act is now proposed in order to clarify in the Act that the responsibility of the employer for the overall and systematic work of the working environment in the enterprise also includes general and systematic sick leave. The addition of this clarification to Section 14 underlines that the main responsibility lies with the employer and that it is the employer’s duty to initiate the work. In this context, there is also reason to stress that successful, systematic organisation and sick leave work depends on the work being done in close cooperation with the individual employee. It is a unanimous municipal committee that sees it as important to focus continuously on the working environment, sick leave and disability. It is a fact that there has been a negative trend in sick leave since 1995. Sick leave has increased markedly in the last five years. The cost of sick leave amounted to DKK 23 billion in 2001, while the increase in unemployment has been significant and reached DKK 33 billion in expenditure in the same year. In addition, we need to include the losses this causes for the individual, and the losses that society suffers from such absences through reduced value creation and lower productivity, both in the public and private sectors. A good working environment is the key prerequisite for stimulating the reduction of sick leave and the reduction of disability. The intention agreement on a more inclusive working life from 2001 aims to reduce sick leave by 20 pst. during the contractual period of well over four years. As is also known, the intention agreement is to employ far more disabled and non-employees and to increase the average retirement age from work. The intention agreement is a positive contribution to reducing sick leave and disability access, although the notifications so far indicate that the objectives set out in the agreement can be difficult to achieve. There is also reason to refer to the Labour Law Committee, which is mandated to revise the Working Environment Act, and which is due to make proposals by 1 December of this year for improvements to the current work environment legislation. Although the Government argues that no significant changes should be made to the Working Environment Act until the Employment Act Committee has delivered its opinion, it is among other things. having regard to the Intention Agreement, the need to make temporary changes to the Act in order to clarify, clarify and, in part, extend the responsibilities of the employer for the follow-up and organisation of sick persons and to clarify the involvement of employees. This is why amendments are proposed which clarify the general obligation of the employer to work on systematic, preventive sick leave and individual organisation, which clarify the employee’s duty to cooperate, clarifying the protection against disease dismissal and taking into account the supervisory strategy of the Labour Inspectorate, clarifying the role of supervision in relation to exclusion. Finally, it is worth mentioning that the government parties and the Progress Party believe that it may be difficult to maintain the current sickness pay system in the future if the negative development of sick leave is not now noticeably reversed. On this basis, I would recommend that Odelstinget support the existing proposals for legislative changes to the Working Environment Act as well as a few minor changes to the Law on Social Security, the Fire and Explosion Protection Act and the Electricity Supervision Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-03-lower.ana.ud1428e154	We have a development in which we imagine a more brutal working life for the workers. There is probably no one — not even the most core family faith — who believes that divorce statistics alone have the primary responsibility for increasing social exclusion, for increasing numbers of people suffering from mental illness and for experiencing stress in the workplace. We see that this is the trend. The bill in the odelstingsproposition also mentions that we have had a sustained increase in exclusion from working life – both in the use of sick pay, in the case of people with high sick leave, and in the case of people who are exposed to disability benefits and in a return course – in the period from 1995 onwards to today. And the question is, why do we have this brutalization? Colbjørnsen says in one of his books that it is competition – the tougher competition – that happens, which makes companies look like they have to remove all the snails in their businesses. This includes removing all workers who do not provide up to 110 pst. The consequences are more precarious and more long-term unemployed. We see that there are those who have the least practices, which are largely excluded from the world of work. And the latest figures from the Statistical Central Bureau show that there are some with minority backgrounds and some other immigrants who have the fastest increase in unemployment if we just look at those types of groups. For the sake of its bottom line and the short-term nature of investor environments, companies will initially seek to exploit employees to maximise their profits. So we have two alternatives – the government has two alternatives, and the Storting has two alternatives – as I see it. One is to implement regulatory changes that force companies to take account of employees. The second is to use market solutions to make it profitable for businesses to operate and facilitate in order to prevent the expulsion of their employees. What the government has presented in this bill are changes in duties and regulations that force businesses to seek to get people back into work, and prevent people from falling out completely when they are in a situation where they are at risk of falling out. We think that's very good. We believe that the proposals for legislative changes that lie here are good. What we miss from the Government is two things. One is that the Government does not see that some of the changes it makes in order to achieve greater flexibility in the use of labour, which we have had in the past in a debate here in Stortinget regarding the use of overtime, can also lead to greater exclusion from the labour market by facilitating a more flexible use of the labour force on the premises of the employer and increasing the workload on the individual employee. The second thing we miss from the Government is good input into what can make it profitable for businesses to have more incentives to bet more on preventing people from being pushed out of the labour market. It is clear that Aetat can facilitate schemes to bring back people with disabilities. But the important work – and I'm sure that both the minister, me and the rest of the Storting have agreed – is to make sure that people don't fall out. It's a lot harder to get people back into work once they've fallen out. When we then say that companies should be given more responsibility in relation to supervisory arrangements, i.e. the HMS work in companies, that they should take more responsibility in these areas, we should also make sure that there are arrangements that make it profitable for companies to ensure that employees do not fall outside the scope of this directive. The Sandman Committee is involved in some solutions. But I miss that the Government – which was supposed to be a front figure in this context, which is incredibly concerned with using market mechanisms, and which we hear all the time are willing to use market mechanisms to deprive workers of rights to prevent them from using sick leave schemes – leaves the same with employers, in order to make them secure work much better and intensify the work already in progress, in order to prevent people from falling out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-03-lower.ana.ud1428e169	The intention agreement for an inclusive working life is very positive, and the Christian People's Party is completely behind him. This odelstation proposal makes temporary changes to the laws to clarify and, not least, to clarify the employer's responsibilities in relation to follow-up and organisation, and to clarify the employee's obligation to participate. As in many other fields, prevention is also important here, in order to prevent sick leave. Then means a sick questioning in both the short and long term. The employer has an important prevention role here. The fact that these proposals are now aimed at reducing social costs is also very important. When someone gets sick, it's negative both for the individual and for society. As we can see from the remark made by the Christian People's Party in the Right and the Advance Party, we look with excitement to the result of the party-managed selection that will go through this with the reduction of the sick leave. We will therefore follow developments closely, to see developments within this field. On the basis of this, the Christian People's Party fully supports the position of the Municipal Committee and will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-03-lower.ana.ud1428e182	It is important to focus continuously on the working environment, on sick leave and on what is developing more and more disadvantaged people. There has been a very negative trend in this area over the last eight to ten years, and the cost of sick leave in 2001 amounted to NOK 23 billion. When one then knows that the increase in numbers also leads to the current cost of this scheme to society of NOK 33 billion – and probably more now after the 2001 accounts – it is clear that these are important factors in economic and resource policy as well. But most importantly, those who fall outside a small inclusive working life are able to get back into work and get a daily life that is meaningful and good. It is therefore very important to step up efforts against sick leave and towards a trend leading to an increasing number of disadvantaged people. In addition to the figures I have just mentioned, LHL and SINTEF have carried out a survey that shows that a company loses approx. NOK 1 700 per year. Day per day sick leave worker. It is also a factor that should indicate that the whole line of work must be seen in this context. But there is one relation to which I believe that the big community and the state must take more seriously in the event of collapse and government, and that is that within the health care system you have a treatment capacity and not least rehabilitation facilities so that those who get sick and have to seek absence due to accidents, wear and tear can get back to work as soon as possible. I think this is a very big problem, which should be taken more seriously, in parallel to the Sandman Committee and in parallel to the relationships that, among other things, are. is in this case. We see that the pressure on the workplace is increasing. There's been a lot of happening over the last few years. Work life has become more brutal due to shifts and time pressure, leading to stress and health problems, not least in the area of mental health. It was very positive that the Intention Agreement on a more inclusive working life was concluded in the autumn of 2001, but it is clear that it must be followed up by all parties. The agreement has the intention of reducing sick leave by 20 pst. during the contractual period, which is well over four years. It may seem difficult today when we see the rise in unemployment again, but it must be an objective to be able to achieve as close as possible to the intention contained in this agreement, and after the status has been established, it is important that we be able to maintain the welfare arrangements that we have today. We also look forward to the Party Labour Law Committee presenting its opinions at the end of this year, so that we can make things work by making proposals from this Labour Law Committee effective from 2005. It is important that a statutory obligation is now placed on employers to draw up follow-up plans for the organisation of work for sick workers who have been sick for more than eight weeks. But it is important that this does not become too bureaucratic and too time consuming for employers. At the same time, like the representative Heikki Holmås, I think it must be important for the government to give incentives to employers and jobs to prevent exclusion and to stimulate inclusion in the labour market. Finally, I would just like to make a few comments about the relationship in the vote in which the committee shares. The representative from the Right also stated that it could be difficult to maintain today's sick pay system if you see that there is no improvement in this development over time. On behalf of the Centre Party, I would like to say that we must work to preserve and strengthen the welfare systems that we have today. We point out that the main objective of the attitude we are dealing with today is to prevent people from being pushed out of the labour market, thereby reducing the social costs of sick leave and disability.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-03-lower.ana.ud1428e197	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 435]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-03-lower.ana.ud1428e205	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-03-lower.ana.ud1428e303	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-03-lower.ana.ud1428e312	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-03-lower.ana.ud1428e462	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-03-lower.ana.ud1428e472	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
