ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e54	Former representative of the Central Party Sigurd Manneråk died abruptly on 5 April, 60 years old. Manneråk had grown up on the farm Manneråk in Marnardal. After his master’s degree in Kristiansand in 1964, he worked as a teacher, a school administrator, and a pedagogical consultant, respectively, in several places in the country. After staying in Laudal, Herøy and Rygge, he settled in Kvinesdal in 1975, where he worked as a principal for 12 years, first at Gämlestad school and then at the school of Likene. Manneråk was busy learning new, and he supplemented his education with several half-year courses in different disciplines. In 1987 Manneråk was asked to take over as head of health and social affairs in the Municipality of Kvinesdal, a position he held until he was elected to the Grand Duchy in 1993. At Stortinget Manneråk was a member of the Church, Education and Research Committee, and he made a great effort for the University of Agder and to get universities to the national section. The mandate of the Central Party in West Agder was lost in the 1997 elections. Manneråk wanted to continue his commitment to research and education, and this was realized through work in Agderforskning. Later he became project manager for FiloNova, responsible for continuing training. Manneråk was particularly concerned with getting higher education skills out in the regions and making competence enhancements available to people also outside central districts. Manneråk was active in local policy and voluntary work. He was 12 years old in the local government, one of the times he was rapporteur. He has been a member of the county council, various councils and selections, and he was head of the West Agder Center Party for 11 years. Manneråk has also had trust in culture and sport. He was, among other things, Leads in the West-Agder Ski circuit when he died. Manhood had other interests and involvement in near-radio and church work. Manslayer was a warm and listening man, and he often made himself a spokesman for the weak in society. Together with his professional background, this Manneråk made it very suitable to lead the work leading to the public investigation ‘From citizen to user’. This was delivered to the Ministry of Social and Health in 2001 and contains strategy and proposals for the reduction of disability barriers in society. We remember Sigurd Manneråk with deep respect and gratitude and shines peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e73	Representatives of André Kvakkestad, Karin Andersen, Bjørn Hernæs, Rune J. Skjälaaen, Finn Martin Vallersnes, Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt, Ola T. Lånke and Svein Roald Hansen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Four permit applications are available: from the Group of the Party of European Socialists on sick leave for the representative Kenneth Svendsen from 29 April onwards and until further notice from the Group of the European People's Party on welfare leave for the representative Trond Giske from 29 April onwards and until further notice from the Group of the Progressive Party on welfare leave for the representative Thore A. Nistad Tuesday 29 April from the Group of the Socialist Left on leave for the representative Ingvild Vaggen Malvik Tuesday 29 April to attend the meeting of the Nordic Council of Lund in Sweden. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For the county of Nordland, Ruth Olug Rist for the State of Uppland, Morten Ørsal JohansenFor the South Trondelag, Ola Røtvej and Jørund Leknes3. Morten Ørsal Johansen and Jørund Leknes are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Thore A. Nistad and Ingvild Vaggen Malvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e151	Ruth Olug Rist, Morten Ørsal Johansen and Jørund Leknes are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e156	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e161	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e166	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e175	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1, 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e211	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group, and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e222	Today, the size has four telecommunications products, with the mobile sector at the centre. As rapporteur for Mr St.meld. No 32 for 2001-2002, About the situation in the Norwegian mobile market, and St.meld. No 18 for 2002-2003, additional notice to the former, I will go through the main lines of the two messages and the main points of view of the Committee and the particular comments of the government parties in the vote. If time allows, I would also like to touch on the other two positions in the joint debate. The government presented in May 2002 St.meld. No 32 for 2001 – 2002, on the situation in the Norwegian mobile market. The message was about two main themes: 1st@item: inlistbox How does competition in the Norwegian mobile market ensure? 2nd@item: inlistbox How to stimulate the development of UMTS and bring in more UMTS actors? The Committee does not deal with this message last spring, and in the light of developments in the mobile market, the Ministry submitted an additional communication in February. When it comes to today's mobile market, it is in practice the GSM market to which it refers. The Norwegian mobile market is characterised by high penetration, nationwide coverage and moderate prices. There are two actors with national GSM networks, Telenor Mobil and NetCom. In addition, there are some smaller actors inside as resellers and service providers. With this backstop, both the Ministry of Transport and the Post and Telecommunications Authority find that there is no competition in the mobile market. The Telecom Act states that effective competition is a prerequisite for achieving the objectives of good and cheap telecommunications services throughout the country. Therefore, the Ministry promotes proposals to strengthen competition in the mobile market. We already have resellers and service providers in the Norwegian mobile market. In order to strengthen competition in the mobile network, the Ministry is now proposing to oblige operators with significant market power to open up their GSM networks to virtual operators. This is in line with the recommendation of the Postal and Telecommunications Authority to strengthen competition in the mobile market. A virtual operator is at the top of the ‘access hierarchy’ and will be able to provide services to customers by using existing mobile networks. A virtual operator will achieve, depending on the type of connection he wishes, greater freedom from network providers than a pure service provider. He will be able to produce his own services and put together packages other than a reseller, which are largely dependent on the framework set by the system operator. If network operators and virtual operators do not agree on the access conditions, they shall be determined by the Postal and Telecommunications Authority. In the setting, a unanimous committee concludes on the Government's wish to increase competition and the means by which it wishes to use it to achieve such a development, whether the Centre Party has certain reservations. It's a pleasure to have such a wide connection. In the past, Stortinget has opposed the Right’s proposal to impose access requirements on virtual operators. Now there is a broad consensus to use this tool. The Ministry notes that stronger competition on the network part is also desirable. The granting of GSM licences to Telenor Mobil and NetCom still makes it possible to establish licences for new operators. However, this has not led to the development of new national GSM networks and the strengthening of network competition to a significant extent. Once NetCom and Telenor have already disbursed their GSM mobile networks and have free capacity, it is demanding for new operators to develop new GSM networks on the basis of business considerations. Teletopia has built a network in the Oslo region, and it will be exciting to see what influence this will have on the market when it opens up traffic. The Committee shares the Ministry's objective of strengthening the network competition, but is uncertain whether more networks and increased network competition will lead to the removal of the need for mobile market regulation. It is likely that there will continue to be a need for regulation of forms of access and conditions. While it is desirable that operators agree to this as far as possible under commercial conditions, postal and telecommunications supervision must, if the parties do not agree, review and take decisions. In order to strengthen the online competition, the Ministry also proposes to highlight the two UMTS open-ended concessions. I'll later in the post come back to the conditions around this. Following the presentation of the additional message, it has been suggested in some media that the content of the additional message would lead to a worsening of the framework conditions for virtual operators. Such interpretation of the content of the supplementary message is not correct and a unanimous committee wishes to increase competition in both infrastructure and service production so that the objectives of a new, good and reasonable mobile service can be achieved. The Committee points out that resellers, service providers and virtual operators will be important players in the future mobile market. They will contribute to innovation, competition and value creation. These are actors that are important and welcome in the Norwegian mobile market. Furthermore, the Committee does not see any contrast between increased competition on the website and on the service side and considers that the regulatory regime must stimulate increased competition in both of these areas. Everything indicates that the Post and Telecommunications Authority is working well. In order to ensure the independence of postal and telecommunications authorities in the telecommunications market, it is important that their decisions become effective without significant delays. The Committee considers that postal and telecommunications supervision must have a high degree of flexibility in the use of different pricing methods and in the choice of models they deem appropriate at all times. Da Stortinget treats St.meld. No 24 for 1999-2000, it was decided to issue four UMTS concessions. Since the granting of concessions, the telecommunications industry has faced significant problems both nationally and internationally, including: has led to some delay in the development of UMTS compared to the original development plans. Of the four UMTS concessions granted, only NetCom and Telenor Mobil concessions are operational today. The other two, Broadband Mobile and Tele2, have both returned the concessions as a result of bankruptcy and voluntary return respectively to the State. On this basis, the Department proposes to highlight the two UMTS concessions available. In the previous allocation round, the award took place through a beauty contest. The starting point was that all the concessionaires had to pay 200 million. kr and cover at least 40 pst. by the population of the country. The four providers that had the widest coverage beyond 40 pst minimum coverage and rapid expansion speed were granted the concessions. In this round, the Ministry proposes to reduce the coverage to 30 pst. for the two free concessions to be published. The Ministry proposes that the allocation be made by auction and at a minimum price of 200 million. kr. The new UMTS players with 30 pst. coverage shall be provided for national roaming on GSM networks and other UMTS networks. National roaming involves the right to use the system of other system operators where a seafarer does not have cover. If the parties do not agree on the conditions for national roaming, the Post and Telecommunications Authority shall determine them. Those acquiring the two new UMTS concessions shall be given the opportunity to participate in network sharing with the two concessionaires already in the process of developing UMTS. The aim is for the auction to be conducted in the second quarter and for the allocation to be made as soon as practicable. The Ministry proposes to facilitate the development of existing UMTS concessionaires by providing 15 months of deferral under the development obligations. Network sharing is also possible to reduce investment costs and it is open to those two actors to meet their coverage obligations through national roaming. All parties in the Committee, with the exception of the Centre Party, support the Ministry’s proposal to publish the two UMTS licences available. The majority also support the Ministry's proposals on the rate of expansion and minimum coverage requirements for the two licences, as well as the proposal to grant licences for the use of auctions. The Government Parties support the proposal for a minimum price of 200 million. kr for free licences. The majority do not want these licences to have a minimum price. The Committee also shares the assessments relating to the facilitation of the development obligations of the existing UMTS concessionaires and supports the proposal to provide for a 15-month deferral. The Committee, with the exception of the Centre Party, stresses the importance of allowing all UMTS actors the possibility of national roaming on the GSM network. If the parties do not agree on the conditions for national roaming, the Post and Telecommunications Authority must ultimately determine them. The Committee also welcomes the use of networking to reduce investment costs in the UMTS networks. It is important to allow those acquiring the two new UMTS licences to participate in network sharing with the two licensees already in the process of developing UMTS. The postal and telecommunications supervision follows up the fact that such network sharing takes place in accordance with these intentions. The Committee, with the exception of the Centre Party, is also in favour of national roaming on the UMTS networks and of imposing national roaming on operators with significant market power in the UMTS market. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, SV and the Centre Party, then have a proposal – which in the vote is the Committee's recommendation I – for a system that obliges concessionaires to cooperate on the development of UMTS networks in the less-profitable areas of the country. In fact, the proposal raises a number of questions that the majority does not answer. The analogue NMT 450 will be closed when the current concession period expires on 31 December 2004. Mobile services in this frequency area provide very good geographical coverage, and the Committee therefore supports the Ministry's assessment and arrangements for granting a new digital concession of 450 MHz frequency. A unanimous committee also supports the Ministry’s proposal to remove the possibility of not specifying the personalities of setting up mobile subscriptions. The reason is that this will make it easier to fight crime. I am very pleased that the Regeringen is getting in touch with the main lines of the two messages. I hope that will also be the case with regard to the treatment of the next major telecommunications matter: the law on electronic communications, which the Committee has now been dealt with. Finally, I would like to comment on the two Document Nos. The 8 proposals from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the On the one hand, the Party proposes that Teletopia be immediately guaranteed access to Telenor Mobile's network. To that it is to say that the question of access is settled. Here the Ministry has decided that Teletopia should have so-called SMS-C access to Telenor Mobil's network. What is not determined is the price of such access. Here the parties disagree, and the Post and Telecommunications Authority has set a price that Telenor Mobil has claimed. The right here is part of a majority who will not intervene in this appeal procedure, but proposes that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol. In the second Document No: The 8 proposal proposes that the Progress Party stop plans for a digital network and review Norway’s digital infrastructure. The right is also included here in the majority who will attach the document to the protocol, as during the spring there will be a big message dealing with the development of digital ground. On the basis of this article, the awake listener will have learned that the Right will focus on IV in the S. No. 192, and that we are within a broad majority to attach the two Document No. The motions for resolutions will be put to the vote at the next voting time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e316	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e319	Let me start by saying that this is a bigger case than many people think it is. Telecommunications, and IT technology at all, have been experienced by many as a relatively inaccessible affair, both because it has a language that makes it inaccessible and because it has a rapid development that makes it difficult to follow. For this reason, it has been important for the Workers' Party to seek the broadest possible alliance in the policy to guide the country, irrespective of who is in the Government, in order to achieve the widest possible majority of the population. That is why – and I will come back to that later – it is regrettable to share in important areas. Let me start with one that's important. The majority proposed Decision I, referred to by the rapporteur, reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to develop a system that requires UMTS concessionaires to cooperate in the development of UMTS networks in those areas of the country that are unprofitable.’ There it becomes more important for the rapporteur to argue against the majority than to argue for a clarification that could clarify what is in it. What is in this context is to provide a basis for a nationwide network that will, in the next round, ensure the technological interface, which concerns IT, broadband and culture, and which will provide opportunities for the nationwide part. My question to the President-in-Office is: why is it that we are reluctant to find solutions that provide the basis for full coverage in the development of this technology?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e333	I perceive the line that the only question here is why not the rapporteurs and the government parties support the majority's proposal to impose network cooperation on the actors. In my opinion, the Workers' Party has been historically restrictive in terms of networking. I refer to the fact that the government has now actually opened up voluntary cooperation and said a lot about it in the message, and that the government parties have continued it in the setting. We sincerely believe that this has to be investigated with imposition and unprofitability before you can agree to it. It will be exciting to hear what kind of comments come from those who have already entered this market, those who have been established and who have paid for their concessional terms and conditions, in terms of required cooperation in unprofitable areas. For us, this seems illogical. Voluntary networking must make sense here. The cooperation that the actors do not find reasonable, but that they are to be imposed by politicians, in our view, has implications that cannot be expected to be positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e342	The majority write in the setting that: ‘Television must be treated in line with other business. Norway is well advanced in the use of IT and telecommunications both in industry and in the telecommunications market. The telecommunications industry itself has a lot of research and development activity, and the industry’s FOU is well above the average in Norwegian business. This is the advantage we can use to build a new knowledge-based business. Now I haven't been sitting on the Stortinget for so long, but I've been following a little bit in Norwegian politics, and I thought this was also a good right-wing policy. One of the main challenges in the treatment of telecommunications policy is to balance consumer policy, the interests of good and cheap services across the country, by also ensuring that telecommunications policy is about having an offensive industrial policy, i.e. a business policy as an important foundation for building a knowledge-based business in Norway. It surprises me that the Right, who at least in celebrations is concerned about this, is not involved in and supports that assessment. Then I have another question. In January, the Government launched an action plan to reduce emissions of brominated flame retardants by Minister for the Environment, Børge Burnde. Now, when we're building base stations across the country for 3G, a UMTS network, we know that they contain these pollutants. This has been pointed in the SV settings. We think it is important that we are led were and prevent these pollutants from spreading so that they increase. They need to be reduced, as the Government has set up an action plan in relation to them. Why can't the Right help us build up under the Børge Brende action plan to reduce emissions of brominated flame retardants?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e356	I agree that there are many positive points in this majority comment that the government parties are not involved in. The fact that this part of the business community is as much on the offensive as it is, as the introduction of this remark shows, is affordable and good. It's good for the future. What's not our formulation is that we in vi form here say that this is what we're going to use to build. It is not our policy that we build business so concrete and direct. We're fixing framework conditions. We see, for example. At Fornebu, how can it go if political eagerness to build business takes different forms that we have not intended to celebrate. So that's in short the explanation that we're not in here. There may be a lot of good environmental policy in the comment on brominated flame retardants, but from our point of view there is a marginal consideration in this context, so we have to make a deeper assessment in a more direct environmental attitude regarding this chemistry. We've chosen to stand outside of this comment because it's not in any way an element of the ministry's presentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e363	I have been away during the last part of the treatment of this matter, and I have to say when I come back and see that the case-speaker has managed to get so many plurals against the suggestions of Regeringa, that it surprises me, and it disappoints me. And now when the case spokesman says that we needed more clarification on individual questions, I'm used to one then being able to agree that a request for the settlement of a matter that someone would have dealt with, and that others have come a little further with in relation to the conclusion. But it hasn't happened. What I'm curious about is if the case spokesman also thinks that this is an area that can create new divisions in our country. This is about electronic communications in a broad sense, of which this is an important part. It's not enough that it's about knowledge and who can use it. Some can, and some can't. Soon, all pensioners will have to pay $50 to pay an invoice because they cannot use a tool, for example. But in addition to that, and it's not so good to see solutions, we're getting a new distinction between town and country. Then I wonder if the government party is agreed that there should be equal access to that type of service in the whole country. And if the ruling party of the Right and the President of the Case are united in it, how will the government party ensure that they also have access to these services on the Utsira and the ‘extremely naked island’, which have been a trade-off in this respect, as do those who live in central areas. They do little to help that there are three nets on Karl Johan.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e370	It is a goal for everyone to provide the best possible range of services in this area to all potential users in this country. It is, however, very unclear whether the leadership provided for cooperation or the note of 30 or 40 pst. – it is perhaps the Central Party to which it should have been addressed – at all has some influence on the offers in the so-called marginal areas of the country in which questions can be asked. The working party does not join with the Centre for the purchase of unprofitable development services in addition to what is said in connection with this imposed. On the other hand, the Workers' Party is involved in a comment together with the Advance Party, where it is said that building many parallel networks is by no means rational. So in relation to creating dividing lines, I can't see that the Workers' Party has any operational action that ensures the marginal areas of the country a larger and better offer than what the government parties are in favour of. Moreover, this is the case with the directive that raises a number of questions that the proposers have not answered, and then perhaps the case-rapporteur can not answer it either.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e377	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e381	I'm going to repeat what I said earlier, that this is a comprehensive case – perhaps far more comprehensive than that attention is being given when we deal with this mobile message. A question about UMTS networks is not just a question about mobile networks, although it initially represents such an offer. What's important is that this field evolves so fast that when the case was postponed last year, no one had a clear idea of what situation we would have when we got it for a new treatment this year. But what I believe the whole committee today is that the postponement proved to be right because we were confronted with completely different technological issues and possible technological solutions in this area than we had foreseen a relatively short time ago. UMTS networks are mobile networks, but they are still part of our electronic communications policy. As part of electronic communications, we are faced with a matter where we are going to make a choice, which is a choice of strategy and how we are going to meet the challenges that electronic communications will represent in the future. We are faced with a knowledge that the so-called convergence of communications networks, represented by the telecommunications, IT and media sectors, becomes an important area for the development of Norway. A strategy for electronic communications is therefore a strategy for future district policy and for future industrial policy. It is on that basis that we have been concerned that here we need to secure the widest possible majority, because this is where we need to ensure that the industry feels secure by the credibility and long-termity of the political decisions that are independent of random election results. When we get a position with a majority and a minority that is so divided, it creates an uncertainty about what the real future will mean. There is no good situation when it is decided for Norway — and naturally — that the electronic sector is an area of activity development and to ensure the rural policy we have pursued. The industry is a relatively young industry. It is also a responsibility we should take inwards. I would like to say that this industry is not characterised by a broad industry unit. It has also created a problem for us in hearings that we have had, where the signals have gone in different directions. At times, representatives of the industry have been more concerned about saying something about the others in the industry. The only place they've somehow created a common platform is the times they've had the opportunity to point out us as politicians and say there's something wrong with us. And those who have gone the longest in the last sport have sometimes also distributed grades for how inadequate we are in the field of telecommunications. I would therefore like to say to the industry: take care of your responsibilities, and make sure that you come into good cooperation in the future to ensure – once the decisions are taken in the Stortinget today – that we have a development that gives good results for the country of Norway and that provides us with a better basis for the international competition that we will be faced with. There are different assumptions about what is going to happen in the different geographical areas of the country. Has the Workers' Party not cared about this, as is said by the case-rapporteur? Then I repeat what is the majority's proposal: ‘The Government asks the Government to develop a system that requires UMTS concessionaires to cooperate in the development of UMTS networks in those areas of the country that are unprofitable.’ In concrete terms, it means making use of the potential that we have. In the industry, hybrids are spoken of, among other things, because different networks exist, but there is cooperation between networks that have been the problem. So the outer naked island has more than what we've discussed, an opportunity to connect if you facilitate such cooperation. But then it must also be expressed as a political will to stimulate the industry to participate in taking the necessary initiatives. That is why the Labour Party has answered this question. Then you can ask new questions. Is that clear enough? I'm not going to characterize it any other way than by saying that those who think it's unclear, then can come and tell us how to make it clearer. We're open to it, but we don't have to make it a kind of gymnastics debate and just point to the one that's unclear, and say that you're unclear, instead of taking an initiative to make ambiguities clearer. Doing so also helps to strengthen the predictability of the decisions to be taken. We have taken an important position from the majority on the allocation of the two vacant UMTS concessions. Firstly, we agree that they should be disclosed in accordance with the auction principle. But we don't agree to setting a minimum price. That doesn't mean that the majority thinks it should go for the cheapest money. It only means recognising that the grant of a concession in 2003 takes place in a different reality from the grant last time. The availability of capital is different today than it was at the previous allocation, so it is difficult to define the exact price. But it is important for the majority to get the serious actors that exist to stimulate what we all in the Committee agree on, a competition that benefits consumers. We've basically said that we wanted some kind of qualification. Here there's an uncertainty, because there's questions about qualification will take a time to make sure we don't get things in place early enough. And so we want it in place at the earliest possible time. But I think it's in everyone's interest that we get the serious actors in place, and that we don't have to experience that sometime in the near future, additional concessionaries will give up the responsibility they've assumed by participating in the development of a UMTS network because they don't have the availability of the capital that this will have to represent. And in order to get rid of the inequality that arises in this award in relation to the previous award, the majority don't see any reason that Telenor and NetCom are going to pay for the ministry offering them a suspension of network deployment in relation to the original concession. There is nothing in the original concession that such an offer should trigger a payment liability for these two concessionaires. In this way, we believe that we have facilitated the creation of an equivalence that provides opportunities for the concessionaires – those who came first, and the new ones who had to come – to have a common basis, an equivalent basis, for cooperation. We have all agreed, with the exception of the Center Party, to open up national roaming. This is an instrument that the majority perceives to you that it will stimulate cooperation in the networks. These are the networks that connect and create opportunities to facilitate national coverage there as well. The ministry adds up to it. But the majority goes further than the ministry adds. We are more clear that a national roaming directive is to be introduced, and whether there is no consensus on the conditions when operators agree on such roaming on the network, the role of postal and telecommunications authorities in making decisions on this matter shall be assigned to them. It is an area to which it has been pointed and which has a certain impact on future competition and is linked to the local loop. Whether or not I'm just going to say briefly that it's the last part of the consumer's network where there's been an uneven competition, and the actors today describe reality so that it's just in the access network, that's the last kilometer, as it's often said, that becomes the most expensive in the transport. We have stressed that the local loop can be developed in such a way as to make use of the networks that exist outside the core networks, and to establish a competition and accessibility that ensures the municipalities around an opportunity to connect to the core networks at prices that do not allow a connection to the network to become a competition in relation to, for example, the network. other parts of municipal activity. Then to the other two matters for which I have the rapporteur's responsibility. With regard to the question of Teletopia, it is our opinion that this needs to be seen in a broader context. There is a great deal of understanding about the issue itself, but the matter needs to be seen in a broader context, and the proposal is therefore annexed to the Minutes. On the issue of digital groundnet, the majority ask for a better overview of the different networks, not for further work, such as: The law on electronic communications will be delayed, but in order to get an overview of these networks with a view to what I have said in the first case, we will have optimal cooperation between the different networks, and we will be able to make the right decisions. If we make the wrong choice, it's on the one hand about billions of dollars in costs, and on the other hand, that we're inhibiting the national development of the networks and the availability that we've wanted in different contexts. With this I take up proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, which is referred to in the Inner East. S. No 191.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e422	The representative Bjørgov Froyn has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e427	In a joint note with the Progress Party, the Labour Party thus states that ‘in competition between GSM and 3G operators, the physical networks will not be of great importance. [[ground stations]] These are intermediaries – transport stages of services developed by operators, whether they are virtual network tenants or whether they are network owners and operators”. At the same time, therefore, the Workers' Party goes into this comment where they impose cooperation on those in the market in unprofitable areas. And we got the full picture of this in the contribution to Froyn when he actually talked here about the “extreme, naked island” – that is, in addition to the obligations, you have to interpret what NetCom and Telenor have through concession. Then the question is asked to Froyn: how are Telenor and NetCom, who have paid for their concession, going to be able to deal with an obligation on exact terms, which might then be undesirable to them, on networking to the ‘extremely naked island’, without Froyn calling for any public payment of unprofitable development services? How should these actors, who are thus subject to changes in their terms of concession, relate to this remark?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e436	Here we are at one of the points on which the industry has been involved and to which the Committee has jointly been given the opportunity to listen, and we have been given the opportunity to ask questions. It is unclear whether the pricing for online access is fair in substance. It was part of the starting point of the conflict in relation to Teletopia. What has been important to us is to ensure a factual availability based on cost-based prices, so that there is a similarity between the internal purchases in the group, which are net owners, compared to external purchases by others, which provide services. Then the representative Hoddevik raises another fundamental question about the economic role of the state in this context of buying-in. I don't know if the time has come to give an exact answer, but what's certain is that in all the conversations we've had around, both in Scandinavia and elsewhere, the signal has been clear enough: if a national coverage of the network is possible, the state has to play an active role in one way or another. You can't make this a market issue, you have to let the state be part of it all.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e445	A few attempts have been made to make coins that some batches will go further in ensuring full coverage for mobile services in Norway than others. That's not the case! There's not one suggestion here, there's not one thing from the Working Party in this setting or in this room that means that a square meter or an extra person gets mobile coverage. Now let's just fix it. Let me then take another point that the representative Froyn is very careful about going in on. He almost asks others to explain what the Workers' Party and the plural think that a network sharing should be imposed in some so-called "wolfy" areas. What I think we're all a few about, is that both new and old actors should have access to other people's networks, so we don't have to build a grid of networks across the country. But what lies in the plural's proposal, which makes both me and the Right and many other concerns, is exactly what Hoddevik pointed out, that there is a requirement here that new and old actors should also be with and build in the so-called wretched parts of the country. I think that means NetCom is going up from its 76.5 pst concession. today to Telenors 84 pst.? And what about any new actors coming in? Should they not only have access, as they wish, but be required to enter and build networks? His representative, Mr HoddevikTaleren, was the representative of Mrs Froyn. so optimistic that he believes that new actors want to enter a difficult network, but that they have to be with and pay for the evil parts as well? I have a problem understanding this, but now I hope that the representative Frönn will clarify some of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e461	Then the President will give the floor to Froyn to answer it, not Hoddevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e464	I will take full responsibility, so that the representative Hoddevik will not be held responsible for any part of the reasoning! Let me start by saying that we, the majority, have accepted changed concession terms compared to the previous time by talking about a coverage that is different, namely 30 pst. by the population. In principle, this means that a new concessionaire can be granted a concession based on being an operator in the densely populated areas of the country. But to be a part of it, we need to ensure that there are not only actors ‘where the gold is’, they also need to be involved in the areas where the graystone exists. Let me use an example from Sweden. This has been solved by establishing a system of cooperation between the various concessionaires. That is what we invite the actors to do, not that we impose on them in detail how to deal with cooperation, but that they take responsibility for cooperation seriously. So there are models of what we have in Sweden, where they set up their own companies on the basis of ownership, or they agree on prices in order to cooperate across the country. And then you see these things in context -- hybrid networks, changes in the competition in the access network and roaming in addition to this. That's what this is about. And the sum of this I think would provide a better basis for the industry to take itself and our political decisions seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e478	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e481	We are facing a revolution in telephony in Norway and elsewhere. Switching to so-called 3G technologies will provide the basis for a wide range of new applications. The market is far too ready for the introduction of 3G telephony in Norway. When the networks become operational, it will hardly take long before a large number of people put this into use. The technology is ready, the telephone devices are shelf-ware – it's just to get started. For various reasons, the development of 3G technology in Norway has been slower than foreseen in the autumn of 2000, when four concessions were granted. An approximate nationwide coverage involves the development of a network of 1500-1800 ground stations, which will cost between DKK 3 and 4 billion. The recommendation of the Committee implies that the State should be responsive and allow the development to take place somewhat less slowly than intended, and that there will be no criminal measures, or compensation as it is called, even if the extension is delayed by 15 months. For rapid expansion, it could easily be the result of splittering new networks remaining for months and waiting for 3G telephone devices to enter the market. Finally, consumers would be charged for this. It is for the sake of the two remaining concessionaries, Telenor and NetCom, and their customers that the Committee majority, consisting of the Advance Party, the Workers' Party and the SV, have come to this conclusion. However, when the Right Party and the Christian People's Party believe that the two should be punished and pay a compensation or fine for what the ministry has actually proposed, this is completely incomprehensible and can put the entire 3G development in Norway at risk for no reason whatsoever. The postponement has not had any negative consequences, but has been made for economic and profitability reasons. Any fines will also eventually have to be paid by customers. NetCom and Telenor have no other money than those they get from their customers. There are three groups of operators to be considered in this context. It's in addition to the two existing concessionaries, NetCom and Telenor, the new concessionaire or concessionaires we hope to get in place already in a few months. Here we see a large and strong player, Norwegian or foreign, who can represent further competition in the mobile market. Once again, there is a small number of committees, consisting of the Progress Party, the Working Party and the SV, leading the way. We believe that the two free concessions must be announced as soon as possible, in accordance with the auction principle and without setting a minimum price in advance. Both new and old concessionaires shall cooperate in the development of networks in those parts of the country that are unprofitable. Once again, it is the Progress Party, the Workers' Party and the SV that form a majority in the Committee. It's completely incomprehensible to me how the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Government are thinking of expanding three or four parallel 3G networks across the country. Such a strategy will provide a strong price increase for consumers. The third group of operators are the smaller operators, who do not have their own concessions but who lease system access by one or more concessionaires. These, Teletopia, Sense and You, to name a few, are already very active in GSM technology. The cancellation notice has taken good care of their interests. With the exception of the three aspects I have mentioned here, where the number of committees is making proposals for the Storting, the Government has, in my opinion, done a good job in dealing with the development of 3G telephony in particular and mobile telephony in general. The Progress Party is also very pleased that the Workers' Party and SV have now understood the importance of competition. Market mechanisms provide better and cheaper services to consumers. We in the Progress Party have consistently asserted this, and we can welcome the socialist parties. 20–30 years ago, employees in the Telewerk drove around with a sticker in the back of their Ladas. ‘No to the privatisation of Telewerk,’ we could read. The trade unions were opposed, and then the Workers' Party and the SV were automatically of the same opinion. Today, we can be glad that these two parties lost the majority of the Grand Duchy in 1981 and that they have not since had it. The Telecom has now become Telenor AS, only partly owned by the State, and with a large number of competitors in the market. Think about the Workers' Party and SV had still been in majority! Then they probably still had doubts about the state monopoly. At the time, today we had a state telephone network without competition, without choice, without dynamics, without the ability to renew and without reason to listen to consumers' opinions. But the Workers' Party and SV have learned from us. That's what they're supposed to be for. By the way, we have more to learn from them, but we're going to get back to that. Let me therefore finally recommend the majority voting in the Innst. S. No 192 and the dissidents of the Progress Party in the Interior. S. No 182 and Innst. S. No 191. I would also like to mention that the Progress Party will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, in case No. 2 about the digital ground, so we get a new case about this from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e507	The representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e513	The Progress Party is the Norwegian policy wing petter, which shines from one side to the other with a wide open wallet. It makes it expensive and it makes direction and destination unclear. The same is true in telecommunications policy. When the Storting was to set the minimum price for UMTS concessions in 2000, the Progress Party went in for the use of auction and aged the budget with the four UMTS concessions to bring in DKK 2.5 billion each. In retrospect, everyone sees that this was madness and lukewarmness. In this round, the Progress Party goes to the second extreme: no minimum price. There is a clear recognition that the Progress Party made a serious mistake in 2000. What indicates that the party has a better informed position in 2003?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e522	When the concessions were first announced, the Progress Party considered it natural that we set a minimum price, as there were many market players. As the situation is today, we don't see it as natural to set a minimum price. There are fewer actors. There are two concessions that are available, and if we're going to have any opportunity to get someone to go into these, we shouldn't set a minimum price now. It will be unnatural, and it will not contribute to bringing this into port. President: Several have not asked for the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e529	A friend of mine told me a story when we started processing the mobile message. He had a sister who married in 1981, and from her parents she got a wedding present that was quite unique at that time, a fixed phone subscription with only six months waiting. Twenty years later, Erlend Loe can write books about trucker Kurt. Those who have read them know that truck driver Kurt has a son who is approx. Three years, it's called Bud and we have a cell phone, and we barely pull the shoulders of it. Much has happened when it comes to telephony, and we who have been involved in the entire development of mobile phones remember the time when the mobile phone was tossable and not portable. In the Norwegian mobile market today, Telenor has approx. 60 pst. and NetCom approx. 30 pst. of the market. Since liberalisation, we have had sector-specific regulations. We have now also received an EU directive that requires us to treat actors with a high market power in a non-discriminatory manner, that is. All over 20 pst. Despite the sector-specific regulation in the market, the Government in this paper believes that we do not have competition in the mobile market. There's something that can be discussed, but that we have chosen in this round to join despite some paradoxes in it. Despite the lack of effective competition, Norway has low mobile phone prices compared to the rest of Europe. It is true that Denmark has lower SMS prices than Norway, but also in Norway these prices are low. Prices of mobile phones in Norway fell sharply in the period up to 1998, but since then they have been quite stable. In addition, we need to realize that Norway has the best mobile networks in the world, the best coverage where people live, and also, despite Norwegian topography, the best surface coverage. We also have to include in the picture that it is not the network operators, NetCom and Telenor, who can deliver the cheapest mobile subscriptions, it is actually the resellers in the market who do. Telecommunication policy is about more than being able to provide good and cheap telecommunications services to the whole country. Telebusiness is also an important part of Norwegian business and must therefore also be treated as such. The research and development of the telecommunications industry is well above the average in the Norwegian economy. If the Norwegian telecommunications industry continues to be at the forefront of the development of new services, it is essential that we have strong Norwegian players. The telecommunications industry is thus a not insignificant part of today’s Norwegian knowledge-based business and is a foundation for the development of more knowledge-based jobs in Norway. Telecommunications policy is therefore about balancing consumer policy and the need for good and cheap services across the country with an offensive industrial policy for the IT sector where the telecommunications industry plays a central role. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the committee, here the Workers' Party, the SV and the Progress Party, write in the vote that the telecommunications industry must be treated in line with other businesses, and point out that a good research and development work is being carried out today, and that it is important that we continue to be able to strengthen it in the future as well. A lot of the debate on this mobile message has been about the development of a 3G network in Norway, i.e. the third generation mobile phone network, mobile telephony broadband – what makes it possible for us to take pictures with our mobile phone when it starts in the autumn, and send them home to hopeful grandparents or aunts and uncles, which means that we might be able to subscribe to scorings in the Premier League and not only get the results, but also see the scorings on our mobile phone. It'll probably be fine, and I think it's a market for it. But I also think we should have a paradox in this. For the weekend, it's premiered on a movie called "The Matrix Reloaded". We who saw the first Matrix film understand what it means, because these services have existed on film for 10-15 years. I think we're about to get a generation that thinks this development is no longer going fast, it's going a little slow. In «The Matrix Reloaded» we will see services that we can only dream of, but as an emerging generation soon wants to be there now! I think it's dangerous if we run a policy where you think: oh, this is going so fast, now we have to be careful! If we're going to be in front of developing new services, if we're going to be in front of the development of the IT industry, we need to see that we need to stretch. This message is also about the fact that it has not gone so fast and that it has not been as good in the IT industry as it is desired. When we have to deal with this, it's because you can't fill the concessions according to the demands that were made just three years ago. So in 2000, four 3G concessions were awarded: Tele2, Telenor ASA, NetCom and Broadband Mobile. None of them are able to fulfill what you wanted that time. That's why we're now dealing with this. Two of the companies have returned the concessions – one has gone bankrupt. Then you have to grab some grips. A broad majority of the Committee supports the re-exposure of concessions. I also think everyone wants you to try to get in at least one new actor. A strategic actor to speed up 3G deployment in Norway will be an actor who does not own, operate or have interests in a GSM network today. It'll be the one that's most hungry to build a 3G net quickly. At the same time, I also think that many of us realize that three-four lucky parallel 3G networks will hardly be socio-economically profitable. We know that 3G requires more base stations than GSM did. It is also important to look at the technology that makes the telephone between GSM networks and 3G secure. It's important to get it in place before the web opens. A broad majority – all except the Centre Party – believe that we now need to open up to impose national roaming in order to make this interesting for the purpose of bringing in particularly new strategically important 3G actors. And absolutely everyone thinks that we should get to this as quickly as possible. It is important for Norway to be at the forefront of creating IT-based and knowledge-based business. The government has taken some action that the majority does not agree with. The government will light up the concessions at a minimum price, which is set at 200 million. kr. A lot has happened in two years. The financial situation of the companies concerned has changed dramatically. If we look at the European market, European telecommunications companies have paid NOK 1000 billion in one-off charges, and there are only a few small ones up and going. So we're in a new situation, and we consider it unrealistic to think that we can get a strategic 3G actor by having a minimum price. That's why we didn't want there to be any minimum prices. The government has also said that Telenor and NetCom will pay compensation for the postponement that NetCom and Telenor have received on the development of their network. We don't think it's right to do it. The government argues that this deferral is socially viable. So if you argue with that, it would be socio-economically unprofitable to force them to pay such compensation. Nor will it be a measure to promote the rapid development of the 3G network in Norway. The majority agree that we should also demand the new concessionaire to participate and participate in the expansion of the unprofitable strata. We're not going to get a new distinction in Norway between those who have access to this technology and those who don't. It is important that we take a social responsibility for a development that makes these services benefit the whole country. I think this is one of the most important things we can think about when we talk about future district policy and infrastructure. In conclusion, I would like to say that with regard to the proposal for coordination, I am very pleased that the Progress Party will subsidiaryly support the proposal of the SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre in the vote, so that the Committee on Transport will be able to present itself with an overall presentation of the development of all digital infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e564	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e567	The representative, Heidi Sørensen, said something that I can agree with, that a lot has happened to telecoms in the last few years. But at the same time, I want to add that very much has happened to SV even after they became a big party and have grown on the polls. On a case-by-case basis, it may seem – at least for us who are looking at this from outside – that SV sacrificed previous positions on the Progress Party table, perhaps to oppose the Government. I can mention the kindergarten agreement and now the mobile message. I understand that the Progress Party will not set the minimum price of a public asset to be allocated to private stakeholders with strong international capital. But that SV throws itself at the same wave, I don't understand, and it needs an explanation. Now the representative of the Progress Party from the Chair here said that the Progress Party has more to learn from SV, so we can see with excitement what it's going to be. I'm going to quote from the TV station, where the editor in charge writes: ‘Companies such as NetCom, Tele2 and Telenor earn billions annually and have solid and good earnings’. SV expresses, among other things: in its programme that the party will: «work to ensure that the State ownership of Telenor is used to ensure that the company plays its role as a central hub for national telecommunications development». Then I would like to ask SV: What is the reason why you do not want to take advantage of the possibility of taking some of the private capital of the state in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e584	I expect that the representative Sahl also sat on the Stortinget during the period of both Paul Chaffey and Inge Myrvoll's telecommunications policy in SV, and know that what we stand for today has a clear line backwards, since we have been involved in liberalisation in the telecommunications market all the way. It is absolutely right that we want Telenor to be a strategically important actor, and that we should use state ownership for it. It's important, not least if we're going to have research and knowledge-based jobs across the country, that we can think in that direction. But with regard to the large investments that the development of a 3G network is, we have to give companies room to make money so that they can make the new big strategic investments for the future. Because we're going to build a lot of the knowledge-based business around the country on good digital infrastructure that makes it less significant whether a job is in Oslo, Fauske or Lofoten, or in Valdres for that matter. Then we must also allow us to manage the money. Instead of taking a proceeds of 200 million. kr, at least, we demand that companies use the money to contribute to cooperation in order to obtain the best possible coverage. This is about creating knowledge-based jobs across the country — and not only Telenor we are talking about, but also the foundation for all business to flourish in the districts as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e591	I have no problem sharing Sørensen's wish that the most possible people in this country will also be covered by the new services. But once again, I want to ask, because I think it's a little bit unclear what the plural is proposing here: when it concerns UMTS, i.e., third-generation concession, Telenor has promised to build out 84 pst. of the country, NetCom 76,5 pst. So here's the suggestion that one of these two should be ordered to expand beyond these areas, i.e. in the remaining 16 pst, and 23.5 pst, respectively.? And when it comes to new actors, who are going to have the same rights and obligations after what the majority says, are they going to be required to enter new networks into the areas that are not covered by Telenor and NetCom – i.e. these completely marginal areas – and share it with and share? It's a little important that both the Storting and the Government, which are going to shape the terms, and the actors know what the plurality means in this context. Since Froyn cannot respond to this, but only refers to others to define what is in it, it is very important that at least one of the majority partners in Stortinget does well to do this: Should anyone be required to go beyond the conditions they have today? Are new actors going to areas other than those already covered? Because we're all a few that we don't need parallel networks across the country – we're going to have the possibility of networking. What is the meaning of this imposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e598	I note that the chairman of the committee is dissatisfied with the response of the representative Froyn. I also record that he did not even find it worth asking the same question to the Progress Party, but leave it up to SV to answer what this majority believes. Let's take one step back: when we gave out the GSM concessions, it turned out that there was no such thing as unprofitable strokes. So we have the best mobile network in the world. It's built far beyond what you were obliged to do. There may also be a situation today, because things are developing fast here. Many actors will tell us today that maybe 30 pst. will be profitable. Who knows? Maybe it'll be profitable to expand 3G all over the country. Maybe there won't even be a need to work together to get coverage. We can hope so. But we're not sure. For us, it's important that we use the possibilities we have to make sense coverage across the country. And the representative Froyn was clear in his answer: the terms of the concession are stated. But even within the concession terms of NetCom and Telenor, it is believed today that there are unprofitable stripes. It will depend on the evolution of the market in the future. But we can get into a situation where there are areas that should, based on national considerations, have been covered, and then the majority have pointed to the model that you have in Sweden, to which Bjørgov Froyn referred, where, in a way imposed by the state, but otherwise under the control of the companies, you have got a sensible cooperation on the most unprofitable areas. It shouldn't be so hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e607	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e610	No one uses a cell phone more than a Norwegian. The prevalence of mobile telephony in Norway is close to 80 p.p., and the consumption of mobile services is highest in the international context. For most of us, the mobile phone has become a useful tool in everyday life – whether it is to be available where you were not able to get hold of it before, or it is about sending text messages to friends and family or delivering the SMS. That we've had this technology available to most people, at a low price all over the country, has made it possible for the North to make use of this new technology in a positive way. The arrival of the mobile phone has probably made the everyday life easier, but perhaps also more hectic. With mobile phone inputs, telecommunications policy has also become more important. It is important that politicians make the best possible possible provision for Norway to continue to be a leader in the use of mobile phone technology and the development of new services. A prerequisite for continuing positive developments is that the mobile market provides equivalent and low prices across the country and a good supply everywhere. If we are to succeed in this, we must bring about effective competition in the mobile market. Today, competition is not satisfactory. There is reason to take seriously the fact that, in its assessment to the Ministry of Transport, the Postal and Telecommunications Authority finds that there is no effective competition in the mobile sector. Although NetCom represents a vital competitor to Telenor, and this competition has contributed to a great deal of positive in the Norwegian market, we do not get away from the fact that it is a duopol in Norway today. The two are alone to have their own nationwide networks and have a combined market share of 90 pst. It is therefore necessary to pursue a clear objective of facilitating increased competition in both infrastructure and service production. Framework conditions that create effective competition will help to ensure basic and qualitatively good services at low prices for all in the country. Such a measure to strengthen competition in the market is to oblige mobile operators with significant market power to provide access to virtual operators. The last question on access for virtual operators was under assessment in St. meld. No 24 for 1999-2000, the Christian People's Party refused to oblige operators with significant market power to open up such competition. We now agree with an overall committee, which adheres to the Government's proposal for such an order. Access for virtual operators will give consumers greater freedom of action and new services. But at the same time, in the view of the Christian People's Party, it is important that the price of access to the infrastructure of the network operators reflects the actual costs of network deployment and operation, so that we do not hit the bottom of the incentive to invest in existing and new networks. However, while greater competition on the infrastructure side is desirable, resellers, service providers and virtual operators are also an important part of the diversity of the mobile market and will contribute to innovation and increased competition. The development of third-generation mobile networks, UMTS, in Norway is an important prerequisite if we are to remain ahead of the use and development of mobile phone technologies here to land. The size decided to issue four UMTS concessions during the treatment of St.meld. No 24 for 1999-2000, but since then the telecommunications industry has faced major problems both nationally and internationally, and the UMTS development has been delayed compared to what was originally planned. In addition, two of the concessions have been returned. It was therefore necessary for the Ministry to re-assess what was to be done with the two available licences and to consider what measures could stimulate the rate of expansion and reduce the cost of developing the UMTS network. Of course, it is regrettable that it is necessary to reduce the coverage and expansion rate requirements in order to make it interesting for new operators to apply for concessions. This does not mean that the Christian People's Party and the majority of the Committee have gone beyond the desire to offer reasonable and good telecommunications services throughout the country. It simply means that you relate to the realities as they are, and do not make demands that would mean no expansion of the available licences at all. It is important for the Christian People's Party that UMTS technology should be available in all parts of the country, but it does not necessarily mean that four UMTS networks need to be developed in all parts of the country. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government proposes to use network sharing to reduce investment costs in the UMTS networks. This enables Telenor Mobil and NetCom to meet their nationwide coverage obligations at a lower price. Network sharing has gained broad support in the Committee. The Christian People's Party is disappointed that the majority, consisting of the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left – otherwise an increasingly common alliance in this Chamber – do not want to set a minimum price when the two vacant UMTS concessions are being auctioned. While there is a broad consensus on stimulating the rate of expansion and reducing the cost of development, it is obvious that the operators who have already paid a minimum price are suffering unfairly when new operators are released without having to pay the same price. This is not, in my opinion, a clean business policy. Let me add here that when the previous concessions were announced, equipment was not in place, and you can see the problems that arose. Today the equipment is in place, and the new ones to be awarded these concessions, if any, more or less free of charge have an advantage of being able to operate immediately. At the same time, the same majority do not want Telenor and NetCom to pay compensation to the State for the extension of the UMTS network by 15 months, although this deferral is likely to provide a significant financial gain for the same companies, which are relatively strong in the Norwegian market. The Labour Party, together with the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Centre, says in the opening remarks that one of the main contributions to positive business development in the mobile sector is a tight fiscal policy. At the same time, Televisen writes in the lead position: ‘Companies such as NetCom, Tele2 and Telenor earn billions annually and have solid and good earnings’. Then my question is: does not the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party believe that it would be right that this sector also contributed to the same rigorous fiscal policy? Finally, I would like to comment on the two documents. The 8 proposals submitted by the Progress Party. I'm glad the committee majority has turned the thumb down for both. The proposals call for careful consideration of important issues, and not least the proposal concerning Teletopia testifies to the fact that the Progress Party is more concerned with cutting down on cheap policy points than following the rules of the game in the telecommunications area. In Document No: 8:17 The Progress Party travels in and of many interesting issues, but these issues will have the full opportunity to come back to through various announced suggestions from the Government. The Christian People's Party looks forward to the debate on these issues, based on thorough submissions from various departments. Finally, the Minister for Transport has said that transport policy is about making life easier for people. I agree. Through a wise telecommunications policy, which facilitates innovation, innovation and a good service offer at low prices across the country, we will undoubtedly make life easier for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e653	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e657	I do not believe that the majority's proposals in the Committee contribute to weakening fiscal policy. It's probably driving the theme a little bit long, but I'll leave it. What's a little interesting is the minority's concern about the majority's proposal for directives on cooperation between concessionaires and the unwillingness to understand what's being said. I would like to ask the representative of Sahl the following question: The representative of Sahl, it is interesting that the municipality of Bømlo, as an example, uses a digital ground network combined with fibre networks in the local business community to provide coverage in the municipality of 96 p.m.? Does the representative Sahl think it is interesting to think about the possibility that the frequencies in the 450 MHz band may now provide opportunities to connect to UMTS and have a capacity equivalent to 3G, and that it can provide opportunities for better country coverage? Does the representative Sahl think that there is an interesting area of cooperation for the future concessionaires?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e664	I'd like to say to the representative Froyn that I can answer a loud yes to everything he asked if I thought was interesting here. It's incredibly interesting with cooperation, but not a cooperation imposed by the state. When he refers to the municipality of Bømlo, I find it very interesting that individual municipalities take the initiative to cooperate between private companies in order to obtain the best possible mobile solution and possibly third-generation mobile solution for their municipality. When it comes to facilitating cooperation on the 450 concession, which the Ministry also informs in the notice that they will re-examine, I also find it very interesting – but on a voluntary basis, not least given that the different concessionaires coming on the track have different concession conditions. And the majority have still not provided an explanation of how to possibly force cooperation between concessionaires on as different terms as they have, both for coverage and for expansion in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e671	I am of the clear opinion that it would have been an advantage for the development of the telecommunications industry in Norway if we had managed to create a greater consensus around this mobile message than we have actually done. Then I want to challenge the Christian People's Party to reflect a little bit around the four proposals for which there is a majority, a majority of which the government fraction is not part. Is it so that they feel this is so deviant that it wouldn't have been possible to come a little further to create consensus in relation to such an important industry, not least for District Norway? I hear that it is very difficult to impose cooperation when concessionaires have different conditions. One of the most economically successful industrial policy areas in Norway is offshore. There, throughout history, we have instructed companies of a private, semi-private or wholly private, international character to cooperate not just to take what is the most profitable fields. What makes it so awfully difficult here? There are fewer actors. It's more transparent. It's less complex. We managed to get to the offshore policy we have. Sweden has done it in this area. And is it to impose a cooperation to get to a coverage in District Norway so hairy that the Christian People's Party must strongly distance itself from this? I'm really having a hard time understanding why this is not something we could all have been together about to ensure the most straightforward, clear framework conditions for the telecommunications industry in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e676	I would like to put the question back to the representative Heidi Sørensen from SV and ask: What is the reason why SV was not willing to extend a hand to the government parties in relation to what the government has presented, and which is initially very close to what SV stands for in the telecommunications area? It is quite right that Heidi Sørensen points out in his contribution, that the Christian People's Party is aware of SV's telecommunications policy in this area in earlier times as well. We are amazed that SV chose to join the Advance Party and could not form a majority together with the government parties in this matter. Here it could also be a question of stretching a few millimeters. We do not disagree on facilitating cooperation. We point to the possibility of networking, we agree on national roaming, but will not force this on companies with different concessional conditions. We still haven't got an explanation from the opposition about how they're going to do it. So when there are questions about being able to come to an agreement on this matter, there is also a question of being able to get an outstretched hand from the Socialist Left Party to what was presented from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e683	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e686	In this five-minute post, I want to focus on St. Report. No 32 for 2001-2002 and St. meld No. 18 for 2002-2003, which both address the situation in the Norwegian mobile market. In the common setting for these messages, the Center Party is part of the plurality in some areas, but the Center Party has its own comments and suggestions at some points, and I'm going to focus most on those points where we're in minority. In St.meld. No 32 it is said that Norway's goal is to continue in the future with a view to developing and implementing new services and low prices. The whole committee has agreed. The entire committee has also said that a well-developed mobile network is a driving force for a good rural policy. The centre party is pleased that this will be fixed as a basic goal. In St.meld. No 32 it is also said that market entry has a central role in telecommunications policy and that the establishment of effective competition will be an important tool in achieving the telecommunications policy objectives. The central party also believes that competition is an important tool in achieving the telecommunications policy objectives. But we also fully share the ministry’s views when it is said in the message that competition as an instrument alone will not ensure that we achieve all the telecommunications policy objectives. The central part of me, among others. that it will be necessary to use several types of tool to ensure a high-quality, low-price telecommunications service throughout the country. In the areas of the country where the deployment of networks is considered to be unwelcome, co-financing of the network may be required by the State. The centre party has therefore come forward with proposals on that. These are schemes that are not uncommon in other countries. Several in Stortinget have previously, the latest in connection with St.meld's management. No 24 for 1999-2000, said that strong market power providers should not be required to provide access to virtual operators. In time after the message was processed, there has been an emergence of resellers both in the foreign and Norwegian mobile markets. As explained in the messages we handle today, only Spain and Denmark have an obligation to provide access to virtual operators. Nevertheless, commercial agreements for virtual operators have been concluded in many European countries. There is nothing to prevent such agreements from being concluded here in the country. The centre party is positive that agreements are reached between high-market and virtual operators, but we do not want this to be imposed at the present time. We believe voluntary schemes will be the best solution to keep the investment motifs attached to the players and ensure good coverage of the services. There is also an argument against requiring virtual operator access that this will lead to more regulation and greater public resource use. At Stortinget's handling of St.meld. No 24 for 1999-2000, four UMTS concessions were agreed. When two of these concessions are available today, the question is what to do with them. Many ask questions about whether there is a market for a total of four UMTS concessions in Norway. Although there has been strong growth in the use of mobile communications, the Norwegian market is relatively small. The centre party thinks it would be difficult to get in two new actors who can satisfy the telecommunications policy objectives that the government has. The central part of the game therefore suggests that only one of the free concessions be lighted up. We believe that the minimum coverage should be fixed, but that it should be considered to reduce the minimum price that was last seen, so that the concessionaire pays for the licence, on the one hand, through greater network deployment. This may help to increase the rate of expansion in more parts of the country. We also believe that the allocation should be made by offer, as it were. The majority of the Committee supports the imposition of national roaming on operators with strong market power. The centre party is, unlike the Bjørgov Froyn said in his post, positive to national roaming, but we're going against imposing orders to achieve this. We believe that the Government should prepare a scheme to facilitate the opening of national roaming. At the end of this setting, annotations on the access network have been added. This is to a very small extent mentioned in the messages. Nor in previous matters where telecommunications issues have their themes, has the access network been particularly much discussed and evaluated. The centre party was in the middle of the Budget. S. No 13 for 2002–03, in a number of cases, pointing to the value of limiting the level of network deployment costs by using existing networks. We still mean that that's right, but we have chosen not to be in the comments about the access network that is in the Innst. S. No 192. We think there are several aspects to the issue of the access network that should be considered closer. We'll maybe wait until we get closer assessments of this. Finally, I would like to include the Centre Party's suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e712	The representative Jorunn Ringstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e717	As the representative himself said, the Center Party is behind much of what we in the Right and the Government have presented. But there's one thing that I see in more and more things, and that's that when it comes to competition, the Center Party is a brake block. I also see that in this case. The representative was involved – this was the case, among others. they oppose access requirements for virtual operators, despite the fact that this is an instrument recommended by the Postal and Telecommunications Authority to strengthen competition. The centre party will also participate in and limit the network competition by allowing only one new UMTS actor, even if there should be more stakeholders. It seems strange to me. What is the reasons of the Centre Party for opposing stronger competition? What I'm asking is whether you actually fear lower prices and better services.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e726	I understand that competition is an important issue for the government party, and I said in my post that we believe that competition is an important factor in developing the UMTS network. But the government itself has said in the message that it will not achieve all the objectives in this area. So the government has been on orders to open up to virtual operators online and impose national roaming. At the same time, several of the government parties have said their representatives in the debate today – the last who said it was Jan Sahl – that it is interesting to cooperate, but not to cooperate. Then it'll be a strange debate for me when the government parties' representatives in individual contexts are very concerned about it with cooperation and co-operation. In the next round, the case spokesman for the mobile messages, Hoddevik, also said that he was not particularly interested in the cooperation imposed. And Jan Sahl has expressed the exact same thing. The center party is for us to get virtual operators into all existing networks, we're for national roaming, but we've gone against it being imposed. This has been the case in the Grand Duchy for several periods before when we have debated telecommunications. So the Center Party stands for it as a plurality in Stortinget has meant for a very long time. When other countries don't find it necessary to impose regulations in all the contexts where the majority now want to implement them, I think that we in the Center Party are fully in line with what many other countries are putting forward in this policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e735	The government's party looks at the co-operation imposed as a change of concession terms. That's the reason why we don't think there's anything positive coming out of this. Now it is such that the centre part is concerned with this much-described comment that SV thought we should bother with as much as possible. The chance has gone away from us with regard to the Progress Party, so we get to take the chance towards the Center Party as well. The centre party has, in addition to the minority proposal, which in reality builds on the future purchase of unprofitable development services by the State. Are we to be allowed to interpret this as if the Central Party does not have full confidence that these detached imposeds, somewhat undecided in relation to the terms of the concession, will bring the net to the «extremely naked island» at the expense of the companies, since there has been reason to promote a minority proposal on future possible government purchases, which these other comrades have not so far said they are willing to support?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e742	In Norway and abroad, the development of telecommunications services is a common feature. It's profitable and it's interesting for a lot of operators to build up in the areas where there's a lot of people. It gets less interesting the longer you come out of the congested areas. So there's going to be a bunch of areas where we can say that all operators count for the number of wolves. For the Central Party, it is important to find ways to solve these challenges when it applies to the Ulf regions, i.e. to be offered to all. I understand that the comments that the whole committee is behind, that we are going to have a mobile network and an open network of telecommunications services throughout the country at a reasonable price, that is what we are in common about. We can go to other countries and see what they've done when it comes to development – and now I'm taking more than just the mobile area. Let's go to France, let's go to South Korea, let's go to Sweden, which is an example of countries that have been willing to invest state resources to get services in the telecommunications sector out to the whole country. For the Center Party, there's also a goal here. When we also see that the Government says clearly that there is more to it than competition, it is precisely to consider state resources one of the other possible inputs that can be useful here. I would say that exactly the two proposals that Sverre Hoddevik pointed out, namely that we want to have a cooperation in the development of networks – that is, new networks in wolf-like areas – and government funds, are a very good combination, and there are proposals that do not conflict with each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e754	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e757	Firstly, I would like to say that I am very pleased that there has been a great deal of support for the Government's telecommunications policy in the areas we are dealing with today. The starting point for the mobile voice mail, St.meld. No 32 for 2001-2002 and St.meld. No 18 for 2002-2003, is to promote the Government’s telecommunications policy objectives to: secure households and enterprises throughout the country high-quality telecommunications services to reasonably price-proof maximum value creation and efficient use of resources in the telecommunications sector; These objectives shall continue to serve the best interests of Norwegian consumers and telecommunications businesses. In addition, the government's objective is that Norway should be at the forefront of the international level in terms of low prices and high-quality telecommunications services and the ability to use new technologies and services. Norway is today one of Europe’s leading providers of good and cheap mobile services. The challenge will be to facilitate relations so that we can be among the top countries in this area in the future. In order to achieve this, we need to stimulate competition for Norwegian consumers today, while developing a targeted policy to ensure that Norway will also lead in the coming years. We have to make the right strategic choices for Norwegian mobile policy at the right times. The time we are now in, in my view, is crucial for the development of the future Mobile Norway, for both today's and tomorrow's consumers, and not least for the mobile industry. We are in the transition between second and third generation mobile phones. Competition in the Norwegian mobile market is not satisfactory. In order to strengthen competition, the Government proposes to facilitate the establishment of independent operators in the Norwegian mobile market who can compete with Telenor Mobil and NetCom without being dependent on the infrastructure of these companies. There shall be room for smaller companies without their own network. These companies are important in complementing competition between system operators. Although the mobile sector may seem complicated, this area does not differ in principle from other business areas. We politicians should therefore take the same approach to the mobile industry as to other businesses. Authorities must draw up a framework for competition, but this framework must not undermine the dynamics of the market. It is important that a reasonable balance be struck in a contractual relationship between companies with and without their own network. I am pleased that the Stortinget believes that the Post and Telecommunications Authority must have flexibility to use different pricing models in order to achieve non-discrimination between market players with significant market power and other players in a rental relationship between them. I also record that the Stortinge joins the Government's proposal to open up mandatory access for virtual operators on commercial and non-discriminatory terms. Such a requirement could provide a useful boost to the market. I also record that there is a minority who believe that the auction as an allocation method should continue to be used only after approval by Stortinget. The fact that the issue of the method of allocation can be decided by the Ministry without prior agreement from Stortinget will help to speed up the frequency allocation process and thus better adapt it to the rapid technological and market developments in the mobile sector. The Government has proposed to publish the UMTS open-ended concessions in the immediate future, while the majority of the Committee considers that the grant of the open-ended concessions must be completed before the end of June 2003. This will in any case be a very tight deadline. The new regulatory guidance proposed in the suspension further makes it difficult to implement the concession award by the end of June. The majority’s proposal for network sharing imposed and for minimum requirements on competence and capital to be imposed in the auction round. Before the auction can be conducted, the content of these new requirements must be addressed. However, I interpret the majority to that effect that we agree that the open concessions must be published and allocated as quickly as possible, and an auction will be conducted as soon as it is practicable and justifiable to do so. The background to the selection of the auction as an allocation method is that the market itself and not the authorities closest to finding out how many concessionaires there are available. With regard to the terms and conditions of the expansion rate and coverage, I believe that the reliefs proposed by the Government in relation to the previous allocation round make the open concessions appear attractive and well adapted to the current situation. That these proposals are accepted, I believe that it is important for the further development of the Norwegian mobile market. I note that there is no majority in favour of the proposal for a minimum price of 200 million. kr for each of the concessions in connection with the auction. Instead, the majority proposes that minimum requirements on competence and capital be imposed in order to participate in the auction round. In my opinion, the majority’s decision entails both advantages and disadvantages. The advantage is that it may be easier to obtain concessions if, in practice, no one is willing to pay 200 million. kr for the concessions. On the other hand, a minimum price would have been a guarantee that the concessions were granted to operators precisely with financial strength, the majority of which are in pursuit, and the minimum price would have secured the country's income if more than 200 million were actually willing to pay. kr. The main purpose of the government is the effective award of concessions for the benefit of market development and Norwegian consumers. The size decision does not change this. In line with the majority decision, UMTS concessions will be auctioned out without a minimum price being attached to them. In contrast to the Stoltenberg Government, the Cooperative Government has proposed that it be opened for networking. The proposal provides for an embellishment of the requirement for UMTS networks to appear as separate and independent of each other throughout the coverage and for the UMTS concessionaries to be able to divide networks into more pig-grown areas. Provision has been made for the network sharing to take place on a voluntary and commercial basis. I understand the majority that the Storting agrees with the intentions behind the proposal for network sharing, but the majority goes further, since the Government is asking to develop a system that obliges UMTS concessionaires to cooperate in the development of UMTS networks in those areas of the country that are unprofitable. However, it appears to be somewhat unclear what the majority actually means by this. I think it's the model in Sweden. I would like to point out that the Government's proposal on network sharing is based on the same considerations that have been established for networking in Sweden. As in Sweden, cooperation must be based on voluntary action, i.e. voluntary action. that, in relation to what is stated in the majority remarks, we are already there, that is exactly what we have presented in the motion for a resolution on the Great Britain. The proposals of the majority of the population could also be resolved within a national roaming directive, which the Government has referred to as one of the forms of network sharing. National roaming obligations imply that operators who do not have coverage in a given area are granted the right to use the network of a significant market power operator that has such coverage. Within the limits of being able to impose obligations on the telecommunications sector under the EEA Agreement, national roaming will be assessed if the conditions of the future UMTS market allow a legal basis for doing so. With regard to the proposal to grant Telenor and NetCom a 15-month deferral of existing development obligations, the majority of the Committee does not agree that Telenor Mobil and NetCom should compensate the State for the postponement. I would like to point out that in this way, the State reduces the risk these companies have taken voluntarily through the competition that was about these concessions. In my view, the result of the processing of these messages is that we have reached overall agreement on the main lines of an appropriate tool to develop the Norwegian mobile market further.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e816	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e819	I believe that the industry – or rather the market – is more alert to what is now going to happen after Stortingen's treatment, based on the postponement we made last year. When the majority of the Committee states as a clarification ‘that it is necessary to re-convert this before the end of June’, i.e. the date of the granting of UMTS licences, I think the market is ready for that. So I think this is a little bit of a problem. One shall not allow this to become an excessive problem in terms of how to facilitate the fastest possible implementation of what is necessary to enable both cooperation and networks to function within a reasonable time. I note that, in line with the government parties, the Council of State is still uncertain about what is contained in the majority's proposal for directives on cooperation in the development of UMTS networks. This is an important premise and will become an even more important premise after changing the concession terms for the new concessions, which will include coverage to 30 pst. of the population — not as it was in the previous concession award process. The Council of State concentrates on this and states that these are important issues that provide a basis for cooperation. The convergence of communications networks, such as the telecommunications, IT and media sectors, is becoming more and more central in the context, suggesting that we do what we can to make them work together. Then this must be imposed by the more innocent orders. Can't the Council of State accede to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e828	I'm a little surprised at the question. It is said that there is reason to set some requirements, and there is reason to do some preparatory work before auctioning, and at the same time this concession must be announced by the end of June of the current year. There's a reason to go a few rounds to figure out how to meet the requirements you want to enter here in a good way. Then I would like to stress that I interpret the bulk of the population there – according to what the representative Froyn said earlier in the debate – that in relation to the demands on the network side, you want a model that is similar to the Swedish model. The Swedish model is based on exactly the same principles that we add to the big message. We're very interested in contributing. This is a dramatic change from what the government of Stoltenberg suggested, where you didn't want to share the network. I think this is completely wrong. I believe that society is well served that we have the possibility of networking. So if the operators see themselves profiting from it, you have that possibility. We're going to take into account the big crowd's comment in this area, and we're going to work further on the Swedish model in this area. I want a quick announcement of this concession, I've wanted it for a long time, from the first UMTS concession back to the department – now we have two. I am eager to get more players on the track quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e837	Earlier today, the Progress Party has stated that they will vote in a subsidiary way for the proposal of the Workers' Party and the SV to have an overall presentation of the development of the digital infrastructure in Norway to the Stortinget. And then I have a challenge for the Minister of Transport. A lot of networks are being built in Norway. If we're talking about TETRA, UMTS, GSMR or any of the other abbreviations, we're talking about digital infrastructure. Perhaps we can soon hope that we can rename the Minister of Transport to the Minister of Infrastructure. And then I'm busy asking: what ambitions does the Minister of Transport have to become Minister of Digital Infrastructure, so that we can avoid what we are experiencing today, that digital infrastructure is being treated by at least five departments and four committees in Stortinget, and so that we get some of this together? Then I have a question that goes on 3G coverage across the country. When Tele2 resigned their concession, they were the concessionaire who had the widest coverage – 4.4 million people were to be covered. Then this also disappeared with that it was going to be 3G to the whole country. What strategy does the Council of State now have to ensure that the whole country is covered by a 3G network? My third and last question to the Council of State is about how she intends to deal with the action plan that Børge Brende has launched to reduce emissions of brominated flame retardants, and how the Council of State intends to avoid that the development of a 3G network helps to increase these emissions instead of reducing them, as the Government has ambitions about.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e846	I would like to refer to the debate in this Chamber when we debated the development of GSMR, where it was said that it is important to see different networks in the context. That's what I'm concerned about, and we'll follow that up in the work on GSMR. I am concerned that we should be able to take advantage of the opportunities on the website regarding GSM and UMTS and all the other networks we have. In the government, we are concerned that we should be coordinated with the gains you can have by seeing the different types of networks in the context. It's absolutely right that there's a lot of digital networks in this country. I hope that I will be allowed to be something more than just the Minister of Infrastructure – I am concerned about many other things in transport, but I will not mention that here. In terms of coverage, we're concerned with the best possible coverage. In that respect, I fully agree with the previous government that the competition to expand UMTS should not be in proportion to paying a heavy sum, an auction sum, to the authorities, but to expand as much as possible. The competition went on to show that you were willing to expand far beyond the country as much as possible, and then you gave four concessions. They were very good, and they gave pretty good coverage, but we don't have 100 pst. coverage. But the claim was added then, in the previous round, and then the concessions were given. They lie there as the legal framework goes on. Compared to what was said about the action plan for brominated flame retardants, this is a very important point. I'm going to write to the network operators and make them aware of the action plan and that everyone has a responsibility to make sure we follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e857	Several have argued that the use of mobile phones is very widespread in Norway. When the use of mobile phones and other telecommunications services is large, it is a disadvantage for those who live in areas that do not have access to such services. Still, parts of the country do not have mobile coverage. Especially for business it could be a big minus. Now we're talking about developing UMTS networks, and then it's important that as soon as possible it becomes available across the country at a low price. As the department says in the message, competition will not be enough to achieve all telecommunications policy objectives. We don't have full mobile coverage across the country with today's mobile system. Nor do I believe that there is anything to suggest that competition alone will provide full coverage of UMTS in the future. What, then, will the Council of State do in addition to pointing to competition? What action will the Council of State otherwise take to ensure that we have a UMTS network across the country? Would the Council consider this with state resources, as some other countries have done? So a little question about access networks, which there are some comments about in the setting that the center party has not joined. There's a bunch of different statements. One note says that the access network will be a major cost in the development. In another note, local access networks will not be the main cost of developing UMTS networks. Can the Council say anything about these costs? How to set up networks, e.g. have an overview of all access networks, and how should they be able to use them? Would this be about voluntary agreements between the actors, or does the Council intend to propose a directive on cooperation? Would there be a matter for the Storting where one evaluates these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e870	There were a lot of questions. Firstly, I would say in relation to this with coverage beyond the country that I am concerned that we should have the best possible coverage, that the coverage should be better and better. We've seen that in the GSM field, we've expanded far beyond what the concession calls for. It has become a competitive factor to have the best possible coverage, yet we do not have full coverage, but we have come much, much longer than we thought. I believe that competition is an important tool to develop good coverage. As I can remember after reading the position of the Committee, a majority wants to compete both on the infrastructure side and on the content side. You can see that getting competition on the website is important. Overall, I see that there are areas in the country where it will be difficult for companies to develop networks. But it's important for us to create incentives for it to be done. That's a need. If you see this together, you have an opportunity now to go together and build a network. It wasn't like that, according to the policy of the previous government, the Stoltenberg government. We're now opening this up, and I think that's a step in the right direction. In the case of other types of network cooperation, including access networks, it is difficult to comment on its costs. I encourage everyone to make use of the network resources that are there, to take advantage of this commercially. I think those who stand as owners of different types of access networks see that. We have to point this out as an opportunity both for those who own access networks, and for those who want to build other types of networks. I don't believe in impositions. To put on a low shoe – to put it that way – is not the solution, but to put it together, so that this is possible. That's a new opening that we're giving.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e885	If I rightfully confuse in this line, that's exactly what I am. My confusion is that the situation in this room has turned completely upside down. The government's party goes down by flag to the top after doing little or nothing - even after the dictator has done it - to get a lot of the most important questions. Not enough of that: the representative Sahl stands out as an insult to not e.g. SV has helped them get multiples. I have been here under five governments – all minority governments. I'm used to the fact that it's the government party's responsibility – when we have a minority government – to get multiples for cases, and that they have to have something to give to the opposition to get it. It seems to me that it hasn't quite gone up for those who are in government offices now, and in this case I am very sorry. What has happened is that, to the extent that, in a milder tone perhaps, the Council of State does not attack so much, but repeats its own proposals and polemizes against it as the majority now in a rather short time will adopt. There are multiple comments, and there will be multiple decisions. And I am surprised that both the case spokesperson and the Council of State say that they have mainly received the agreement to the message. The council even said she was very satisfied with this. There are nine plurals against the Government, and there are three proposals for decisions – against the Government’s proposals. Is this to get agreement in the main, and is the Council of State satisfied with this? I am busy that when this debate is over, the debate – and the polemics – is over. Then it is up to the Council of State to implement what we decide on. That is precisely why I am so deeply sorry that it has not been done even more to get multiple numbers. I know how important it is to have those who are responsible for the practice of something, on a team. Today, unfortunately, the train has left. But I want an insurance policy from the Council of State that she wants to see both that we get serious actors, and that the concessions are illuminated as soon as possible. Of course, we need to get the most out of it, but we don't want a minimum price.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e899	I am very pleased with the attitude that lies here, and that there is a majority in favour of us having competition in this area. Furthermore, I am very pleased that we agree that we should publish these concessions quickly, and that we should have a postponement of the requirements set for Telenor and NetCom in this area. I am largely very pleased, not least because this means more accountability in relation to the responsibility we have as a government authority – compared to what the Stoltenberg government presented. An opportunity for networking is a socio-economic gain, where we can contribute to better competition. I'm very pleased with that. We're going to do our job to get serious players into the market. This is clearly a challenge in relation to the way in which the tender is made. We're interested in serious actors. That's society earned. We've already experienced losing two. We do not want that again. We never want a guarantee that it won't happen again, but we don't want it. We believe that if we establish more players in the market, competition will work even better. And I can promise that we're going to work everything we can to get these concessions published as soon as possible. Here we will take into account the majority's comment in the position, and we will – as I have been told – work on a model of networking that is a variant of the Swedish. There are a number of other solutions for which there is in practice no basis within the legislation we have per. Today, but we are going to work very hard to find a good progress for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e910	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e913	I'm glad we're talking about a part, even though I think we're having a disagreement about more than what the council is now giving the impression. So there's nine plurals against the government. In all areas, there is a plurality against the Government — under a general chapter and where prices for access to the network and its regulation are involved. When it's about the number of concessions, we have a different view of how realistic it is to believe that we're both sold. We can't afford to try -- like the Center Party does -- but we think it'll be hard to sell both. At least it is important to sell the one and of course get the most money for him. We disagree when it comes to the conditions of expansion. There will be a decision that says something about cooperation on non-wage networks. We disagree when it concerns the call and auction round. We don't want a minimum price. That means, as I said in my line, not that we don't want the most possible money for this, but that we don't want to bind ourselves then to those degrees. It could be the imagination of the Council of State to consider whether there is anything else the concessionaires could do instead of paying, for example. contribute to the development of networks outside which it is explicitly profitable for each individual company, instead of paying money for the concession, or as part of the payment for the concession. We don't agree on the time of the announcement. We in the majority are in a hurry, we will have done this quickly. We don't agree when it comes to those who are being postponed with expansion, i.e. NetCom and Telenor, paying for this. A decision stating that it should not be taken. We disagree about the development of user equipment and the access network. I'm still wondering if it's true when one says one is brilliantly naked. Because if that's true, maybe we could talk to you about these questions. It would have been much better for the cause. It would have been much better for us as users of the various services, but it would also have been much better for the industry to know that this had a wide variety of numbers, and that it didn't change with different numbers in this house. We have a challenge in the future, and that is to be in the first place when it comes to electronic communications in general and mobile telephony in particular. The representative, Heidi Sørensen, said something important about this. I'm in it, and I'm in that it's urgent to follow along in this gallop. Here it goes quickly, and what we did off, it's not that easy to take back that train further forward. We have a challenge in providing an equivalent supply across the country. This applies in particular to electronic communications in general and mobile telephony. We have a challenge in coordinating public efforts and stimulating private actors to cooperate on different types of networks, even where it is not possible to spend money on building out for each individual company. Although we share a common view that we should have market governance, we have different assessments of whether the market is able to control everything. We don't think the market can manage everything on the website. We believe that we will have to come back with some government involvement, either through the company or by supporting directly where we see that we have to. When they have to do this in Sweden, we actually think we have to do it in Norway too. We in the Workers' Party have spoken to many in this process. I think we're talking to all the actors, sometimes many times. We've had them on the hearings in the committee, we've had meetings with them in the fraction, and we've had a seminar in the fraction with 40 participants, I think it was. It could have been – and now I am back to the process – that some of what we have come up with would have been worth listening to. It could be that we could have some input it was worth listening to instead of sitting outside and dropping down by the flag to the top, which is not a position worthy. I hope that's the last time I stand on this pulpit and complain that we get multiples against the government. I'm actually doing that today, too. I hope that we can learn to work in a better way, which can benefit this country in a particularly demanding sector. As I said in a reply: it is this sector that will challenge us the most if we have a country with equivalent offers, with equal opportunities in cities and countries, and for people with different backgrounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e936	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e939	This debate has, of course, been about telephony first and foremost. But it also includes a proposal to scrape the plans for the digital network. It is an important matter in a cultural and media policy landscape. I would therefore like to comment briefly. Technological developments in this area are going incredibly fast. It's a challenge for the way we politicians work. We'd like to have investigations, and we'd like to know what they're saying and what they're saying. The problem is that evolution is much faster than we're investigating. This makes it easy for us to get into the hang of it if we don't find out good and effective working methods. This development is not further pursued by investigations. This development is being carried on by the major international actors, which are constantly giving us new opportunities. We have to have the opportunity to either jump on or not use it. The last one is very rare. Once there, our market in Norway will also require us to use it. For Norwegian actors – those who are going to deliver the content online, in the TV channels, all those who are going to take care of Norwegian culture and the image of Norwegian culture within the large sphere of which electronics are part – it is important that we always have maximum possibilities, even in an international sense, to operate on. This matter has given a pretty good picture of this only during the year it has existed as a matter. The proposals of the Progress Party are marked by all the scepticism that has come from those working on other types of platforms. Only during this half year has it been shown that many of these have come together, simply because technological development has progressed in the long run. The big contrast that was between those who wanted to bet on broadband and those who wanted to bet on the ground net no longer exists. We now have a process in which all actors work together. It is important that we do not compensate for a decision-making refusal with an investigative intention. It could quickly be a danger here. I'm looking forward to getting the case. No matter what we may have to think about the conclusions on the ground when it comes, the fact that we have a concrete investigation based on a cooperation between someone who is willing to spend money on this, and someone who is willing to relate to the practical complications that you will actually encounter when you really want to do this seriously, will be of great value to our work on digitizing Norway in the future. Of course, this is not the opposite of seeing it in a whole, nor is it the opposite of connecting it to other networks and looking at the whole of it, but it's a very important prerequisite for moving on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e952	I think the representative, Thommes, must read the minority's proposal as subsidiaryly supported by the Progress Party, a bit special, because there is no proposal for an investigation here, there is no proposal for a postponement. Proposals are made as soon as possible, in line with the time allocated for the treatment of the digital ground network, to provide an overview and ‘overall assessment’, as it says, of the digital infrastructure, precisely based on the Thommes own conclusion, to look at the coordination potential of the network structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e957	The representative, Ausdal Starrfelt, made an enquiry to me about my small proposal to SV about why SV has not stretched out a hand in this matter, and reiterated that as far as the representative understood, it was the government's responsibility to obtain a majority. I am also fully aware that it is the responsibility of the Government and Government parties to get a majority for a matter where they need it. At the same time, however, I must say that the representative Ausdal Starrfelt himself gave the best answer as to why the government parties have not reached a majority in the negotiations in the Stortinge on this matter. When the representative here listed 7-8 points, with an emphasis on the discrepancy between the Labour Party and the Government about them, it is, in my opinion, the best explanation of why the government parties have not reached. Then I assume that the representative of Ausdal Starrfelt is pleased that we did not agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e964	My post was not primarily directed towards the proposal that, among other things, The representative Froyn is behind it. My contribution was primarily directed at the proposal of the Progress Party to scrape the plans, which would be very regrettable in relation to the work we are facing. This is a problem that I often face when I'm in different technological environments. That is why it has been important to stress the importance of other and more effective ways of working, as I hope is in the proposal for a more appropriate form, as is stated in the proposal here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e971	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. One, two, three. [[Fotation, see page 2700]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e987	We now have a Document No. Eight proposals from the representatives of Kenneth Svendsen, Øyvind Vaksdal and Ulf Erik Knudsen to introduce local referendums in the construction of toll-funded projects. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, opposes the proposal. I expect the Progress Party itself to justify its position in a later article. For me, it is amazing that the Progress Party will oblige the municipalities to have referendums every time they see it as necessary to obtain a partial funding in order to obtain a fine infrastructure in the municipality, in the region or for the nation. In fact, I thought the Progress Party was for them to assess it locally themselves, but in their comments here, it is almost a punishment for the municipalities that they do not use referendums, that they should now force the municipalities to do so. They write that ‘although the municipalities have the opportunity to seek advice from the population through referendums, this is not done’. I think there is respect for the local elected representatives taking on the responsibility of seeing what is needed here and now, rather than often going out to the citizens and asking for their opinion. There is respect for those who dare to make those assessments. And after the majority's assessment, they'll be allowed to do it in the future as well. When we in Stortinget deal with these matters, it is according to a broad assessment in the individual municipality of the county. The projects and ideas come from below, and if local democracy and a majority of municipal and county councils want road projects financed by tolls, then the bulk of the population generally supports them. And we'll still do that. So in difficult cases, it might not be easy to make a decision. Then it's easy to resort to referendums. But what the majority think is that it's municipal elections every four years, and it's big elections every four years. Then it's up to our citizens to say whether we, as politicians, have made the right choices over the period, whether the choices we make are difficult, or they're easy. So the majority will stand on what we're dealing with today: rejecting what comes from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1002	As a background to the proposal, it is shown, inter alia, that: for the treatment of road projects financed by tolls, the bulk of these projects place considerable emphasis on the locality of such projects through treatment in local government and county councils, and then with positive results for the projects concerned. But how real is this anchoring? Could it be that in municipalities and county councils it becomes a majority for toll financing, sometimes a scarce majority, but is this majority anchored in the population, a population that is actually going to run through these trees? Is it the people's wish to be met when local government and county councils are involved in toll financing road projects? The party of progress has strong doubts. The municipalities have the opportunity to ask the population about such issues, but they do not. What are the municipalities afraid of? One thing is certain: as elected representatives, you have to take care of the interests and desires of the people. As elected people, you should not forget the people once you have been elected. Many of the inhabitants around Municipality-Norway are opposed to toll financing, but some are also in favour. In order to know what the citizens of the municipality or municipalities in question mean, they have to have an opportunity to say so, and then referendum is a good way to do this. Is there any better way to show democracy in practice than to allow people to express their opinion? Against this background, I would recommend the proposal of the Progress Party in Innst. S. No 190.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1013	The representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1016	The Progress Party pretends that this is a choice for people between getting the money either from the state budget or in the form of tolls. In reality – and from the plurality of this room – it is often a matter of choosing between getting a toll project or not getting the road or the tunnel it was talking about. Now I'm wondering how the Progress Party thinks that this referendum should be. Should a question be asked as follows: Do you want to have tolls, or do you want to wait forever? That's simply what's real to people.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1023	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2702]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1039	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group, and 5 minutes to one member of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1044	Today, we are going to discuss proposals for measures to improve the economic situation of the churches. As an introduction to such a debate, it might well be reasonable to quote from the Bible. I want to quote what is written in Psalm 118, verse 24: "This is the day which the Lord has done; let us rejoice and rejoice in it." I'm happy, and I'm cheering because it's now a broad commitment to improving the Church's economy. I would like to give tribute to the promoters of this Document No. The 8 proposal, because it has helped create a broad commitment both to the Church and to the people. The exposure in the proposal is two-fold. First, it's generally about the Church's economy. We have been notified of the closure of churches or proposals for the roasting of churches, and secondly we have received many reports that the maintenance of the Norwegian churches is poor and poor. The Committee agrees that there is a shared responsibility in relation to the church economy. Municipalities are responsible for operation and maintenance, while the ecclesiastical councils have administrative responsibility. The state also has its financial responsibility for the churches. In the setting, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party say that the reason for the situation we are now experiencing is the down-priority of the Church from both central and local authorities, even in good economic times. In my own municipality, Harstad, it is proposed to close Harstad Church six weeks into the summer. Bishop Per Oskar Kjølaas, as far as I understand, cannot accept this. This is a saving measure due to a lack of economy. Both the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, which have the position on this matter, promote proposals for a comprehensive review of the church economy in the context of the revised national budget. Since 70 pst. of the Church's economy is based on municipal appropriations, right-wing, Progress Party and Christian People's Party also ask for a review of the municipal economy in the municipal proposition for 2004. The consultation carried out by the Committee has demonstrated that most of the proposals on the closure of churches and the recruitment of staff are due to the tight economy of normal operation, and not to the decay of church buildings due to poor maintenance. This was shown by the study recently carried out by the Church's Employers' Organisation. Maintenance is disastrously bad in many places. The magazine Tromsø, April 15, i.e. Tuesday in the quiet week, had a front page that reads, "The Churches Rotten". The person responsible for the church buildings, Knut Flatebø, also says in the magazine Tromsø that 15 to 20 million are needed. kr in order to bring the churches in the municipality up to a level where ordinary maintenance can be operated without having to be defined as restoration work. It has been proposed to use funds from the Information Society Fund and to make a legislative amendment to this effect. The setting demonstrates that there is no need for a change in the law, and that the enormous delays in maintenance cannot be resolved by means of funds from the fund. At the hearing it was strongly discouraged to use more funds, from both the Church Council, the Church Employers' Organisation and the Fund. The Christian People's Party therefore welcomes the work being done in the Ministry of Culture and the Church to solve the problem of economics and maintenance, both in the short and long term. As I said, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have put forward a proposal, and I am addressing this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1071	The representative of Ivar Østberg has taken up the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1076	In response to a written question dated 11 December 2002, the State Council of Reply City Haugland stated: «... therefore, relations around the church economy must to a large extent be seen in the light of the municipal economy. In this context, I will follow closely the development of the local church economy in the future.» After New Year’s, the situation is clearly worsening. There are strong messages that churches need to be shut down and church activity must be set. My question to the representative of Østberg is therefore: Is it not time for the Christian People's Party to be actively involved in the work of strengthening the economy in Kyrkja?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1086	The Replicant mentioned the State Council elected the City of Answer Haugland and answers to questions. There have been several questions raised. I also showed that it is working in the Ministry of Culture and the Church to solve this in the short and long term. It is quite right that it is linked to a poor municipal economy, and I have great expectations of the municipal proposition to be submitted on 15 May. At the same time, there are also issues of priority in the municipalities. I mentioned the look-up in Tromsø on April 15th this year. Construction manager Knut Flatebø says under the heading «Money available»: ‘The resources of the Tromsø Church Council do not in any way meet the needs of the community,’ says Flatebø, who notes, however, that the municipality has managed to raise SEK 3 million in order to preserve the World Theatre. – It’s great, and it shows that there’s money available just the will is there. It should also benefit the churches of the municipality. Church buildings are cultural treasures that are in the process of rotting, says Flatebø." So it's also about local priorities, and not just about central efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1101	There is no doubt that the local situation in Kyrkja has to do with a tight community economy. In the setting, the Christian People's Party is strongly committed to a historical description of who has been responsible before. There can be no doubt that the Christian People's Party today has a great responsibility for the economy that we have for 2003 and for the following years. Technical calculation selection has recently shown that the local economy is significantly worse in the last two years. There are many people who know about schooling and care for the elderly, but it also shows up at the local level when it comes to church. I thought it was a strong experience to be present at the hearing where the Church's employer's organisation said that 19 p.m. has completed depopulation, 24 pst. pre-cargo manning and 36 pst. pre-cage or have completed the closure of activities. We know that it has to do with both youth work and a lot of other preventive work. And so it's a study carried out in 385 out of 434 Joint Councils. My question to the Christian People's Party is: what is it that the Christian People's Party does not now accept the proposal of the Labour Party, which must be seen as an outstretched hand in strengthening the community economy and thus strengthening the important work that the Church is doing locally? What in all the world is it that makes the Christian People's Party more concerned with the past than with the responsibilities they actually have today, and the possibilities that are actually in strengthening the municipal economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1115	The Christian People's Party is responsible for an overall economy in this country. The government's economic policies include: led to a fall in interest rates and a fall in interest rates. This is important. That it has been and is a difficult local economy, Christian People's Party has recognized. The Christian People's Party has clearly stated that a promise must now be made for the local economy. This will make a significant contribution to improving the church economy. At the same time, as I was in my previous answer, it is quite obvious that priorities are also being carried out locally. I've shown you what's written in the newspaper Tromsø, no later than April 15. I myself have been in municipal government and chairmanship where the parties that are now most concerned about the local economy have expressed their wish to vote against any proposal aimed at rebuilding a burnt church, etc. The Christian People's Party is locally and centrally concerned with both the church economy and the community economy, and we're going to work hard to improve both.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1124	I have two questions for the Christian People's Party. One issue concerns some of the comments made by the representative, Mr Østberg, that this is also a matter of local priorities. Does Østberg and the Christian People's Party believe that there is room for prioritizing both church maintenance and increased operations within today's framework? Is it the Christian People's Party's opinion that there is room for it within today's municipal framework, that one could have solved this if one had prioritised better locally? Then to the second question, when the Stortinge dealt with St.meld. No 14 for 2000-2001, Stock exchange and cathedral, About the economy of the Norwegian Church, it was decided that the Government should provide measures to improve the maintenance of churches and church furniture, i.e. a significant part of the problem we are seeing today. Why hasn't that happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1131	Different calculations have been made as to the extent to which churches are maintained. One of the numbers is $6 billion. It is clear that, within the current framework, it would not be possible to cover this locally, either by local priorities. However, it does not exempt Kommune-Norge from prioritizing, and the priorities are determined by the appropriations that come. I can point to several projects in the local government sector on which questions can be asked to the greatest extent and which could free money for both maintenance and operation. I think we're wondering ourselves if we don't dare admit this. And as I said before, I have – locally – experienced that even if a church burns, and people want it rebuilt, some of the parties that are currently engaged in improving the church economy have said that they will vote against any proposal to rebuild the church. So to the second question, which was why no action has yet been taken. Work is done on a plan both in the short and long term. This has been clearly expressed by the Church Councils in answer to several questions in the Storting. We'll deal with that plan when it comes, and I hope it will come quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1139	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1142	There is every reason to be concerned about the economic situation in Kyrkja. The Church Council has simply stated that 100 churches must close their doors in 2003 due to lack of money. In the postwar period, something similar has never happened. The Employer’s Organisation in the Church has provided information that 19 p.m. by the Joint Councils, the crew reduction has been achieved and the 24 pst. pre-carrying crew. The investigation shows that 36 pst. the implementation or pre-emption of activities by the Joint Councils. As if this wasn't enough: 38 pst. by the Councils have reduced the maintenance of the churches, and 25 pst. Councils plan to cut down on maintenance. This information tells us that the Norwegian Church is in a serious situation. The Labour Party believes there is a clear connection between the Church Economy and the Municipal Economy. From an old age, the community has been financially responsible for the operation of churches and church gardens. The new church law of 1996 continued this obligation for the municipalities. The reason why the churches have come into such a serious economic situation is that the local economy has become significantly worse in recent years. On the basis of these facts, four of the representatives of the Labour Party are proposing to strengthen the economy in Kyrkja. We propose that this should already be done in the revised national budget for 2003. The plurality of the committee magnifies that view. The Government Party and the Progress Party reject our proposal. In the last few months, many have formulated a clear view of the church economy. One of them is Bishop Odd Bondevik. To the NRK, the bishop states the following 16 January: ‘It is the government of the Council of State Erna Solberg that... has given the municipalities far too harsh conditions.’ Bondevik then adds: ‘Solberg talks about repriorities and the like, but it does not seem that she understands the scale of the problems in the municipality of Norway.’ Bishop Gunnar Stålsett formulates his penchant in Nettavisen on 16 January: ‘A Head of Government may not waive responsibility by pointing to a single Council of State.’ And he goes on to say, ‘We expect the government to take care of this acute situation. It must take place quickly, and at the latest in the context of the 2003 revised budget, as presented in our report.’.» I have confidence in the work the bishops are doing in the churches around the country. Therefore, something needs to be done immediately to alleviate the problems that have arisen. Churches must be usable, not kept connected. Activities for which there is broad support for church membership must be provided. There's something else we can't stand firm and defend. The poor church economy has created critical conditions in many places. Church of Astrid Efskin The Onion in South Odal saw the following words on the situation: ‘The church has come into an economic situation where some choices need to be made. Not everything can be put out of competition or made more effective.’ It is feared that the poor community economy could lead to the accumulation of tombs and to the liquidation of every four weeks. Is this a state acceptable to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs? Every day problems are many. There is a report of a municipality that shut down its churches from New Year to April. In another municipality, almost all church buildings were closed during the same period. Desperate users, we find many of them. The vast majority do not agree with the explanation that municipalities have to spend their money better. The government's supporting player, Progress Party, is correcting basic debts against the municipalities. In their comments, the Progress Party states that the problems arise from municipal mismanagement. It is a small point of light that the game is about this point of view in the committee setting. The Labour Party asks the Government to assess a financing mechanism for upgrading church buildings in line with the school building system. Such a scheme would be appropriate for municipalities that are tired of maintaining church buildings, and it would also have a positive impact on the construction industry. We ask for such an assessment to be presented in the context of the 2004 State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1187	I must first of all be allowed to state that I am pleased that so many now are committed to the Church's situation and order that church buildings and the church economy should be given priority. This commitment is very good, although there may be reason to point out that the need for maintenance of church buildings and church furnishings is not something that has arisen in the last year. Unfortunately, in many places there has been a downturn over many years, and this is probably due to a lack of priority both from central and local authorities even in good economic times. My 26-year experience as a local politician is that at least it has not been the municipal economy that has been the argument of local government when individual parties have made proposals to reduce appropriations both for maintenance and operating budgets for church purposes. Therefore, as mentioned, I am very pleased with the broad commitment of which we now see the outlines, to give our churches a better situation. I agree with the proposers in this matter that the church economy must be seen in the context of the local economy. The municipalities are responsible for the maintenance and operation of church buildings. It is a fact that many municipalities have had to decide that they have had an economic development that has made it necessary to make strict priorities between and within the various services. This has in some places had a negative impact on the Church's economic environment, and that's why most parties here today point out the need for the Church's economy to be safeguarded by reviewing the local economy. It is also the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs that stresses in its letter of 24 March of this year that the Ministry will regularly review the local economy in the revised national budget for 2003 and in the municipal proposition for 2004. We are also aware that the Government is working on measures to strengthen the church economy both in the short and long term, as the Minister of Culture and the Church informed in Stortinget on 19 February and 2 April of this year, as well as in that letter from the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs on 24 March of this year. There may also be good reason in this context to mention that many church councils around the country, in cooperation with their municipalities, do a great job. They have made a very solid effort, and they have shown great creativity and skill in solving maintenance and operational tasks. That the Church itself should also look critically at some places on its own operations and its priorities, is also a fact, as we could hear as late as last night parish priest Einar Gelius in the Vålerengen congregation here in Oslo express through the TV news This means that there are good opportunities for us, both state and local authorities, together with the Church itself, to find solutions that better care for the church economy. I have expectations that this will also now be followed up locally by the parties who are happy to engage in this matter. I hope the Stortinget will follow up the proposal that Ivar Østberg has made here on behalf of the government parties and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1204	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1207	What happens to the church economy is in many ways a reflection of what happens when it comes to the local economy – too little money for the municipalities goes beyond the operation and maintenance of the churches. There are many examples of churches having had a lot of stanchions in winter. So this is done by a government dominated by the Right, but led by the Christian People's Party. Municipal Budget is a throne. I've noticed that the Right has like a strong philosophy to get more out of each city crown anyway. How does Right want to secure more money for the Church? Do you want users to pay for ecclesiastical actions? We know that Bergen's church council has found it necessary to establish such a system. Is this in line with the Right market thinking about more of each krona? In that case, church policy is not good. Is the representative of Hogsnes agreed that today's economic problem in Kyrkja is a result of a lack of financial investment in the municipal sector in the last two years?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1216	As I was in my post, I think the reasons are broader than that they only relate to the local economy in question. I am pleased with the commitment, as I mentioned in my post, and I hope this is followed up locally in the many local governments, in the many environments, where, despite the good community economy for many years, the framework of church activities has been pretty tough. That's what I'm going to do again. It's quite right, as the replicator said, that the right wants more for the money. I chose in my post to praise a good number of church councils who really work after that motto, and that means that many places have found very good solutions and entered into tough priority debates that have given funds for the right purposes. I do not believe in any broad system of self-payment within the Church. I am fully aware that in some places the church has an inflow and a popularity that has made you feel that you are taking on obligations that perhaps other municipalities or other congregations really have. It has triggered such a discussion. Here we need to have an open view that we can find the best solutions locally, but I find no basis for claiming that the Right or Government stands for some wide-ranging system of self-payment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1223	It is quite right, as the representative Hogsnes says, that there may be different priorities locally. And you have to be allowed to do that, that here you also put one thing in front of the other when you see the need for it, just as the government has clearly done when it doesn't prioritize church economy so much that the municipalities can afford to carry out their tasks. That's why I'm a little paralysed about that kind of moralization in the statements. But what I want to ask is. In Hogsnes' reply now he said that he did not go in for a wide-ranging self-payment system within the Church. I need to get it a little bit more elaborate. So, are there any primal attitudes to self-payment for church acts that are different from those for other areas? I can imagine that it is, because this is an area that is different from many other ‘services’ if you can call it that. What's interesting is that it's true that parish priest Gelius says that a lot of communities are very badly visited, so there's too little market for some of these services. Is that how Right thinks about church economy, or is it so that Right maybe has some principles in relation to church economy that it's important to hold on to? I could also imagine asking Hogsne's answer as to whether the Right now has changed its mind in relation to when we dealt with the paper on the church economy. Int. S. No 187 for 2000-2001 they decided that grants to the Church should in future go directly from the State to the Church and not via the municipalities. Is there a view that the Right still has, or has the party now changed its mind on such an essential point?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1232	I would first of all like to establish that the right position regarding the questions asked by the questioner is firm. I don't want to be taken from Stortinget's pulpit to drive with moralization. It must be allowed in a political debate to recall that these issues have a past in many local communities. That's why we're happy with this broad commitment, and that's what we're expressing. We hope that it's a local infection, that you're now taking the force that's needed in many places at the local level. That's what I'm trying to express. And then you'll have to bear to hear it, and don't argue that it's about moralization. We have a political debate that also has some local implications. So obviously the replicator is a little bit unknown with some of the discussions we have in some local communities, where you might say, among other things. In the summer months, there are special churches, special settings, popular priests, or whatever it may be, that make you feel that in a small municipality locally you may have a problem meeting the needs of the population and the congregations you are assigned to serve. It has triggered discussions in the local joint councils in some places – finding solutions that will take care of it, and the Church providing good services. That's what I meant when I talked about talking about somewhere discussing this, that when the audience has special wishes that they don't necessarily have a local requirement, we have to be open to making decisions locally about a certain amount of self-payment. In general, you belong to the congregation, you belong to a state church – we are talking about offers that are free of those belonging to the congregation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1239	The entire Committee agrees that there is a link between the local economy and the local church economy. In the Central Party, we record the same thing as the representative Hogsnes, that there is a local awareness when the financial frameworks are as scarce as they are now. We don't have the same optimism Hogsnes has when he's actually waiting for a power surge locally. We're recording consciousness. People shake their heads, people don't believe what they're experiencing, they think it's out of the question, yes, it's out of the question, that a Christian Party-led government provides such a scarce financial framework that there must be strong denunciations, not only in the case of school and care, but also in the case of the Church's work. I have two questions for Hogsnes. One is in relation to the representative of Østberg and what he said. He leaves the impression that the Christian People's Party will actually strengthen its finances. I'm worried that what's going to happen is that the Christian People's Party will, but that the Right says no when it comes to the piece. Does the representative Hogs have the same strong expectations of the municipal proposition that Østberg has? So to the second question. I'd like to give Hogs's opportunity to concretely specify when it relates to their own payment. In what area is it that he sees that Kirkja can obtain income by owning it locally?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1248	I think I'm going to assure the representative of Meltveit Kleppa that, like the other representatives of the government parties, I have expectations of what the government is doing, and then we're going to leave the government with the proposals it has about the municipal economy, both in the municipal bill and in the context of the revised national budget. I also repeat in relation to the question from the Center Party: I'm happy for the commitment. It should be said in a brackets that the central party in many local municipalities has not been looking for the Church in any way, and that in this way both the government parties and the central party in very many municipalities have been good partners in order to provide the Church with good framework conditions. When I talk about a power cap, we now experience in many municipalities that the Joint Council is being heard in the local municipal councils. An effort is needed, and, as the representative of Østberg was inside his post, in many places there are resources when it is willful. That is what I now hope to infect the municipalities, and then I think many municipalities will experience exactly what I mentioned. So I guess I feel that the attempt now to do this with self-payment into a big debate is a derailment. When e.g. The empty municipality in the summer half of the year is increasing its population from 4,500 people to 30,000 people, it is clear that the Church is also experiencing demand for services that it is not normally dimensioned to handle. That the Church has then agreed to payment arrangements in relation to the guest citizens, I am willing to be open if the local Joint Council chooses to make such offers. I don't think we're talking about the Church in any way increasing its revenues, it's about being able to serve guests in a proper way without going beyond the citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1259	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1263	The Progress Party agrees with what has already been said about satisfaction in the commitment to strengthening the church economy. But I think it's going to be a little wrong when the focus is on the local economy. I think it's actually a bear service to the Church. It is clear that there are several people who have noticed that this is not something that has happened over a year. If you go into the different issues and debates that have been in Stortinget, you can also see that this is not something that has happened in the last year. I just want to refer to St.meld. No 14 for 2000-2001, Exchange and Cathedral, where a decision was actually taken that the Government should return to the Grand Duchy with a separate case on different models of how the state should increase efforts to restore church buildings of protection. That case has not come to Stortinget, but it has now come through a Document No. Eight proposals. It is clear that it is important to focus on what was said in this regard, and I also think it is important to follow up what was said by several representatives here in relation to what has happened in the local economy and in the debates in the municipalities. The undersigned has himself been a local government representative. I remember the debates all the way back to 1987, where we discussed in the local government how to prioritise the means to maintain the churches. There were different arguments in local government at the time – it didn’t necessarily have to be economics, but it’s clear that there’s a priority in getting enough money. It is interesting when the case rapporteur also mentions the situation in the municipality of Tromsø. It's about priority. Tromsø Municipality has decided to build a culture house of 700 million. kr, but they cannot afford to maintain their churches. It's an example today from my own county, from the municipality of Verdal. Stiklestad church is due. 100 metres next to Stiklestad is the National Cultural Centre. How do the municipal politicians in Verdal prioritise? They give priority to providing funds to Stiklestad National Cultural Centres, not to the Church. It's clear that there's a priority here in the municipality. I can also refer to a Document No. Eight proposals launched this year by SV to set up a public commission to assess the relationship between church and state. This requires a major debate. I think it's too easy just to throw this into revision, even though we're going to agree to it now, while getting an assessment in the municipal proposition. In relation to the proposals of the Labour Party, we believe it is appropriate to have a review, but it must be in view of what the structure and situation will be in the future, not the current situation. The point is that we can't concentrate the whole problem around the local economy. Soon it will not be the thing for which the local economy is not responsible in this country. I think we need to have a broader and more thorough debate. There are many things you can suggest, but the Progress Party has promoted three proposals that go on both the concession law and the housing obligation, i.e. to get greater returns from the fund. It may be possible to discuss whether the state should go into the fund with a larger amount, so that the returns can increase, and what is important, and on which we must finally agree, is whether we should have a shared responsibility in terms of funding. The Progress Party believes that this must be added to one level of government, and then perhaps you should discuss whether the municipalities should have no responsibility at all, that the State should have full responsibility over it, or how this should be done. It'll be a little too easy to just take it in revision, as it's desired here. If we had put some more money into the revised, I don't know if it would have helped in relation to the constellations that sit in the local government around per. the date of issue. I think it's completely different things the local governments and local politicians would have prioritised if they had got money in that context. Finally, I just want to say that the Progress Party is interested in strengthening the church economy, but we do not want to use the community economy as an argument to do so. We want to find other ways to provide enough funds for that kind of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1284	If anyone thinks that, sir. Sandberg got a little long speaking time after the lights went off, because the president messed with the knots and initially gave him too short speaking time and tried to compensate it discretionfully at the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1287	Thank you, President! I would like to take this opportunity to present the proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1294	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1299	The representative Sandberg says that it's going to be the wrong focus to link this to the local economy. But funerals, weddings, and church acts take place almost every week, and it must be linked to the annual municipal economy. Then the representative also says that the local economy is blamed for everything. But why does it do that? It's because this affects a lot of services for people most. That's why it's so important that we have a local economy in place that can give most people, who the Progress Party loves to say, a good service. The Church Army in South Odal has stated, as we heard earlier here, that the Church has come into an economic situation where choices must be made. Not everything can be put out of competition or made more effective, and she fears that the poor church economy can lead to funerals being collected and closed every four weeks in the future. In addition, the Progress Party has secured a majority for an economic structure that is far too poor to provide the municipalities with sufficient resources. The representative Sandberg does not see that the results of poor municipal economy, among other things. is that the churches, for example have to carry out community funerals? And what will the Progress Party do to improve the situation for the churches? I have also heard here today that some municipalities now have to go to the step of making their own payment for, among other things. funerals and church ceremonies. This is in addition to the fact that the Government and the Advance Party removed the burial aid of NOK 4000 from the new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1310	It was a comprehensive line, but I'm going to try to answer all the questions I got. First to what we want to do. Here, the Labour Party has a full opportunity, because the Progress Party has promoted a proposal in the Stortinget to be dealt with in the context of the revised national budget, on action against unemployment. The Progress Party has put forward a proposal to grant additional funds for the upgrading of protective church buildings. Here, the Labour Party has the full opportunity to support the Advance Party, and in relation to that proposal, we can take a thank-you now. But I think that's not enough, it's just short-term measures. We need to implement some long-term measures, i.e. structural changes. We can also look at efficiency. The Church has enormous wealth, but then the Workers' Party, together with others, has provided a law that prevents the Church from taking out the wealth that lies there, among other things. through concession law and accommodation obligations. The Working Party does not want to change anything. The Church's economy and wealth is there. The point is that we have to give the Church an opportunity to redeem some of that wealth and put it into funds, so that you get more returns and thus get more money to operate the maintenance of the churches. In relation to this with municipal economy, I just want to say that it is not the case that the municipal economy has turned upside down completely during the last year. The working party has been responsible for large parts of the tightening up that is taking place. Although the Labour Party in the opposition is now spending billions on the municipal sector, they have also participated in the restrictions that have occurred in seven to eight years. It's interesting to hear what the Center Party says in that context. I think the representative Meltveit Kleppa said something such as that it had to tighten the framework to raise awareness. Should tight frames really be necessary? Can we not consciously get the most out of the funds that are granted, without tightening up? That's a little bit of my point. So I'd like to refer to Tromsø and Verdal. In Verdal, the Labour Party has a majority on its own, but it is not a good thing to give money to the churches.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1323	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1326	SV does not want a church that has a cash register in the entrance door. In the municipal economic proposition last year and in the budget, we addressed this important issue. The funding of church buildings and the operation of the Church today depends on the local economy – whether you like it or not. When someone thinks that this can be corrected in one year, that's not possible. It'll take time. But it is also not possible to let this mainly focus on local priorities, as some people say. When the Stortinge discusses school policy, they say the same thing: the school is bad because you have priorityed so crooked and wrong locally. Then we'll discuss care for the elderly. Then you say the same thing: it's so bad care because you've been prioritizing so incorrectly locally. Then we discuss child protection or all other things. Always that's what we're talking about right then, which should have had greater priority. The problem is that there is not enough money for everything the Storting has decided, because the Storting is not able to afford enough money. In several cross-sections, SV has called for a look at individual municipalities and study them, research-based, to see if the requirements and decisions in relation to the different sectors are at all related to the total economy. I hope that we can gradually get through for such a review, because that is absolutely necessary. If you put the charges from the different departments next to each other, you'll see that it doesn't work out. You have to pick something. Is it the school buildings that are going to expire, so that the churches can be refurbished? Is it the care of the elderly to wait, so that the church can be open? I understand that these are almost impossible questions for some in the community. It's probably more about a total prioritization, and it's about making it a priority also from a value point of view, not just from what pays off. I have noticed that parish priest Gelius in the Vålerengen Church has written a long chronicle in a present newspaper, where he says that it is not necessarily a major disaster if some churches close in periods. I agree. But it is therefore a disaster whose cultural treasures and great cultural values are lost. It is also unacceptable if people who want church services and church acts do not get it and are faced with too many practical obstacles or self-payment. It's unacceptable. SV has called for a comprehensive responsibility for the church economy at one level. I have asked some parties here today and have been told that they do. Then it would be possible to get it done. I am a bit in the mood that the Right Party and the Advance Party, as they write in their comments on the church economy in general – not in this case, but last time – will wait to decide on this until the relationship between church and state has been clarified. It may be very long to wait, and there may be terrible trouble with very many church buildings in the meantime. Can we really afford that? Either the money comes through a government direct grant or they get through priorities in relation to the local economy, you can do some of the things you say you should do, only the money comes to those who are responsible. Today, then, it is the municipalities that are responsible. If they get an increase in the municipal economy that is said to strengthen this area, I actually have confidence that it will help significantly. I would encourage the Right, which at least shares this view, to reconsider its position that there is almost nothing to do with this until the entire funding system has been reworked. SV believes that we need a different funding system. We can't wait until it's time to make sure that there's enough money to take care of the most elementary, namely that you get access to the church services you need without having to pay yourself. We think that's a value question, and we'll take a value point to make it that way. You have to take care of the church cultural taxes that are sometimes not just local, regional and national, but some of them are actually also of international value.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1344	The center party has a strong commitment to taking care of important common values in our society. We are deeply concerned about the deterioration in the municipal economy that the Bondevik II government has carried out by means of the Progress Party. A good and free school, a care where the individual is met with respect and dignity, was not really realized in all municipalities with today's financial framework. In winter, there have been numerous examples of the local church work being followed by tight municipal frames. It applies both to maintenance and to operations. I would like to underline the need for a holistic review of the economy of the Church and also the need for a concrete, greater state co-responsibility. It applies both to maintenance and to operations. The Church Council has made a very clear statement on concerns about the situation. The Church's Employers' Organisation has done a very thorough job of providing the local overview. Technical calculation reports an increased deficit of DKK 4 billion in the municipal sector over two years, and an operating result of 0.4 pst. in 2002 versus 3 pst. average for the 1990s. All members of the Municipal Committee know that the municipalities have incurred uncompensated exceptional pension costs. We know that KS asked for NOK 6 billion in relation to the 2003 government proposal. In fact, in the light of those numbers, the examination of the Church's employer organisation should not come as a surprise to anyone. When 385 of the 434 Joint Council told that 19 p.m. have completed de-manning and 24 pst. Prep the same thing as 36 pst. pre-birth or have completed the cessation of activity, and that the maintenance of the churches is reduced, we know that this has local consequences, both for youth work and other important prevention work, and it has consequences in relation to klenodia if maintenance decreases. There should be bells ringing in all of us, and it has done so in several people. It has been our question in Great Britain's Question Time, we have been in charge of it in the Centre Party and others, and both the Minister of the Church and the Minister of the Municipal Council have commented on the situation. The Labour Party has taken a concrete initiative. They have stretched out a hand in the form of a proposal, they have made it clear that if the Christian People's Party, which has traditionally been particularly busy with the economy of Kirkja, will, there are several in Stortinget for a municipal economy that means a strengthening even when it is the Church's economy. We are then in a strange situation, because we feel that the case spokesperson in the setting is conducting a procedure on who is in debt so far. What a person gets a sense of is more a disclaimer of responsibility in relation to the past than the responsibility of the Christian People's Party and the Right now in government. State Council Reply Haugland has an overview of the situation. In a commendable way, the Government has taken the initiative to meet with the Council of Churches both when it comes to the current situation and the future. But now they had the potential of a common provision in the revised budget to strengthen the local economy. The case spokesperson has today expressed great expectations of the municipality's proposal. In view of the National Meeting of the Right, the Center Party cannot share these expectations, but it is still visible. Now let's hope that we get a municipal proposition that strengthens the municipalities in general, and that also allows for the strengths of the church economy that today's framework unfortunately does not allow for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1357	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1361	In my post, I expressed joy over a broad commitment. I still keep that joy. I understand that the Center Party is still concerned with church economics. I am a little surprised that the representative Meltveit Kleppa so often complains about a Christian People's Party-led government that makes it so bad for the church economy by destroying the community economy, and that the case-rapporteur runs disclaimer when he points out that this has been a problem for a long time. The Christian People's Party, like the Center Party, wants an overall review. I am pleased that we are united in this wish. I'm starting to wonder if the most important thing for the Center Party is to present it as if the Christian People's Party has now left the desire for a real church economy. That's something I'm really wondering: if we had now got a local economy in line with the proposal of the Central Party, how much does the Central Party expect that local priorities would have been given to the church economy on the basis of the proposals for allocations promoted by the Central Party? Would it have been enough to cover the sum of NOK 6 billion for church buildings?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1370	The answer to Ivar Østberg's last question about correcting the municipal economy would also have helped to correct the entire aftermath when it comes to the buildings of the church, is no. For the Central Party, it is quite clear that there is a need for both a strong local economy to take care of operations and more regular maintenance, and a strengthened funding to absorb it. In the past, we have discussed this in the Church Committee as well as in questions in the Question Time of the Storting. We think there is a need for both. Hence this holistic review. However, we were also in no doubt that the Central Party’s proposal for a strengthened municipal economy for 2003, some €6 billion more to the municipalities, would have the effect of letting go of these headlines on linked churches, the centralisation of tombs, and the closure of valuable church-related child and youth work. I hope that we can be some of that. Then, like Østberg, I will express joy over the broad commitment that is now from all the parties when it comes to strengthening the Church's economy and thus Church its important work, including the consciousness that has happened locally. It is not the case that income is to be taken into account because the Government and the Advance Party have a strain on the municipalities. It's actually so that before people think of it as a sequence of self that a local set up for the church; this is unfortunately no longer the case because of the scarce economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1379	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1382	Let me stress that there is no doubt that in the municipal sector in general and in the church economy there is a difficult economic situation at the moment. The government has never hidden that. The government knows that there are no frames to solve some of the problems that exist. We know that there is a need to use resources in a good way, as resources are not going to go to everything you wanted to do. We know that this is necessary for Norway in order to secure jobs, to ensure a continued decline in interest rates and to ensure that our country takes care of well-being in the years to come. As regards the church economy, two different issues are addressed in this Document No. The 8 proposal, and there are two different issues in relation to the challenges in Norwegian churches. One is the current operating situation, which is so much under pressure in many places that some churches have been closed for a short time, and employees have been laid off. The main reasons for this are the fact that many associations argue with high pension costs, similar to the local government sector, the state and others have had in some areas, and with the increased electricity prices. So there's no doubt that for construction that it's demanding to heat up under a current situation like the one we now have, power prices will have a relatively big impact. So it's the topic in question that concerns the operating situation and the main reasons for it. The current acute situation has been stated by the Government that it is appropriate to assess ahead of the revised national budget. The revised national budget will not come too long, and then you will have the opportunity to decide on it. Then there is another issue that concerns the lack of maintenance, which has happened over a very long time. There has been little rat damage since the adoption of the 2003 budget. Politicians at all levels must take joint responsibility for the fact that we have not prioritised our cultural heritage and our taxes well enough. However, it is notable when someone uses it as a main argument specifically linked to the 2003 economy. There's a big lag in the maintenance needs, and we have to figure out ways to solve it. The Riksantikvar has estimated that the church buildings alone represent nearly 40 p.m. of the budgetary needs of the entire cultural memory field with regard to antiquarian maintenance. It is therefore a major challenge in this area. The government has said that we will return to the issue of the municipal economy in the context of the revised national budget, and in the municipal proposition we will also consider further measures. It will have a bearing on how the church economy too will be. But it's a little obvious that you now take up pieces of the municipal economy and areas that are considered to be funding the municipalities, and then you make your own policies in each of the areas. I would like to point out that there is an error in the setting. It will probably be perceived as a political mistake, but it is simply wrong. The Labour Party notes that in its alternative budgets for 2002 and 2003, they provided significant growth for the local economy. In 2002, they did not contribute to significant growth in the local economy. The construction of the new government was 250 million. kr higher in free income than provided by the Stoltenberg Government. Then the Workers' Party took part in the budgetary procedure at the same level in respect of free income, and it is relevant for church economy. During the budgetary procedure and last year's revision, the Labour Party had 250 million. kr more in total for the municipal sector in the case of free income. It is possible that there is a significant amount or significant growth, but I think most municipalities will realize that it is not, especially when we hear how many different themes it should be funded. Let me take another example of the setting, which criticises the fact that the operating result in 2002 has become 0.4 pst. The change in the Labour Party, if we had not used it for better services at all in 2002, would have contributed to the figure being between 0.5 and 0.6 instead of 0.4. That's the perspective of this, and I think the Workers' Party should be a little more decent in these debates as to what they actually can afford for the money they provide. They have a problem trying to sell accountability, but at the same time they spend a lot more money than they put into verbal communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1397	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1400	I would like to thank the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs and the moral council of the Labour Party for their advice on propriety. We believe that we are both decent and sober in the practice of politics, and that is what the Council of State is all about, although it does not like the positions we take, and the views we put forward. I also insist that what is stated in the statement that the Labour Party has been in favour of a strengthened municipal economy in 2002 and 2003 is effective and effective. So in the last few months, we've heard a lot of comments about how difficult the economy is for the churches. Representatives of the Council of Commons stand out with such views, priests and bishops do the same. These are people who don't have the habit of making untimely demands. Their views seem at my discretion well thought out and nuanced. The requirement for church interests is clear: without more means, churches must still be completely or partially connected, and church activity must be set. My questions to the Council of State Solberg are therefore: Is the Council of State comfortable with the situation in the church area? And is there any reason to believe that the Government will present proposals in the revised national budget in May that can in practice provide better church economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1409	No, the government is not comfortable with the situation in relation to the churches. This has been clearly expressed both by the minister of the church and by me. We are not comfortable with the fact that we have problems with the operation due to high costs. We are absolutely not comfortable with the fact that in many areas over time we have now failed to take care of antique values, especially the old churches that stand. That's why we're busy doing something about it. There are many areas in our society where I see that we need a stronger effort, but that also needs to be adapted to take care of future growth. It's not like it's been said in this debate before, that the Church is going to take responsibility for solving tasks in other areas, or that we are going to put out competition in church areas. But if we launch competition in those areas in the municipality where we have the opportunity to get cheaper, possibly better, solutions through competitive outsourcing, we will create room for getting more money back, which can also be used for those areas that we do not think should be competitive. The working party creates with its anxiety for this smaller room to solve problems, because they don't spend the money in a good enough way. They don't make sure we get more for the money we have. In my opinion, the Labour Party has a credibility problem when they can write that they proposed a significant growth of 250 million for 2002. kr, while in the budget for that year they cut the State aid to the churches. The Labour Party could not be here in any credible way to say that the church economy in 2002 would be better with their community structure. In fact, I think that Norwegian policy should require a little more audacity from Mr. Sandal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1418	The right and SV disagree with the need to strengthen the local economy. That's no news. SV believes that it should be strengthened because it is good for the country and for people living here. We do not share the view of the Council of State that it is good for the country that school buildings and churches fall due or that people are unemployed. It's a vision we don't share. That's where I don't think we're going to come to any agreement. But I could imagine challenging the Council of State on some principles in this matter. One is the principle of payment for church services. Is it such that the Council of State has a fundamental view of whether it is to be paid for church services, whether or not the payment is to be increased, and whether there are any limits in this area? And are there any values that can't be valued, but are actually to be provided, regardless of whether you can pay the price or not? The second is the a little more long-term part of it, how to arrange funding for the maintenance of church buildings and the operation of churches in the future. SV has proposed that at least one level be considered responsible. In the setting of St.meld. No 14 for 2000–2001 was in favour of the principle that the state should take over, but, as has been said, one would wait until the discussion had ended whether or not to continue with the state church. Does the Council share this view? And in that case, won't the discussion about the government of even more tasks also mean that maybe you're taking away from the local government a task that's natural for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1427	Let me start with the funding. At that point, I don't think we have any completely locked opinions until we get a review of whether we're still going to have a state church in Norway or not. Because it is clear that the management of the assets of a future non-state church will be an important part of the whole discussion about how to make the changes functionally, and it would be unnatural for us now, when we investigate the principle issue, to initiate major structural changes in that area. Our principal program says clearly that we want a distinction between state and church. It means that we have to be concerned about how we care for the mass of properties, both what is used for church activities and what is used for support functions within the Church, at that time. Then there are two different types of church buildings according to my concepts. One type is the ones that are ancient – cultural memories. Many of them are, in practice today, little functional churches other than for services and some collections, but they are great cultural memories for us. I think that in the future, and I think that's the basis for too much of what the Right has said in the past, too, maybe we can't expect local authorities to take responsibility for the most important of those areas, because it's national cultural memories. Where the limit goes for these antiquarian values, I can't go per. Today say, but it's clear that I agree, as long as we have a state church, that the question of setting up new churches, the question of the use of the church room, the activity, is also related to local democracy, for which I think it's a good commitment. But I think that this functional division discussion belongs primarily to the state at the time when we clarify the future relationship of the Church with the state. It would be completely unnatural to say that there should be a state responsibility other than for the cultural memory bit if we, for example, get an independent church in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1434	The central party is concerned that the Church should have funds for its very valuable work locally, that the State in that area should assume greater responsibility for the provision of funds, and that it should also be subject to the maintenance of the large common cultural values represented by the church building. So Ivar Østberg has asked me today whether it is more important for the Center Party to doubt the Christian People's Party's involvement in this field than it is to secure the Church a better economy. For the Central Party there is so definitely no goal in itself to so doubt the will of the Christian People's Party in this field. But when it comes to getting more funds in this important field, there is reason to wonder about the dilemma that the Christian People's Party is currently in, where Reply City Haugland clearly expresses the will to strengthen Church's economy, and where there is a clear signal from Right to hold back from its communities. It's a long way to go until the relationship between the state and the church is clarified. Is the Council of State as uncomfortable as the Christian People's Party with today's situation, i.e. with the starvation now taking place when it comes to the Church locally? Will it help to see the deterioration that happens when it comes to maintenance, the reduction that happens when it comes to church work, and will it also contribute to strengthening the Church's economy? Or is there an exaggeration of belief that a competitive environment will solve the local challenges for the Church?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1441	The Minister of Church and Culture is now monitoring — and has received relatively good evidence — the problems associated with the operation of the church sector, the operation of Norwegian churches. In addition, anti-Various authorities have worked a great deal with the maintenance of the protected parts of the churches. So we now have a good overview of the challenges. The challenges in the field of cultural memory are very difficult, not just in the church sector, in Norway. The challenges in the field of cultural memory have contributed to the creation of a cultural memory fund by this government, and we have started funding it to get more stable funding for cultural memories in the future. As far as the rest of the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa's line was concerned, I did not see that it was really a line for me – I realized that there was a comment on the case-rapporteur's previous posts. So we're going back to the question of local economy in a few weeks. You get a wide opportunity for a review and a discussion, and then of course we're going to look at the big commitment from SV in the future, and not least from the Workers' Party for the Church. We'll see how it actually turns out in the local priority discussions. It's a little dangerous to go very high on the track with a lot of money, as someone has done in this debate, if it gives a backlash in the local priorities that shows that it wasn't that important with the church economy in the end anyway. The centre party is not one of the parties I'm thinking about in particular, but I have to say, unfortunately, that the history locally is not the one that is most attractive to two of the parties that are now talking a lot about church economy, as far as the local priorities between different things are concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1449	Let me begin where the Council of State was: as a local politician over 20 years, I have a fairly good overview of the priorities that have been made and that are done in local policy everyday life. And yes, the Church's men and women have not always been equally satisfied. They have wanted major appropriations from each local government. For many years, however, local government has set aside modest but regular amounts for the maintenance of church buildings. And it is precisely these regular, modest amounts that have now stopped – a continuous maintenance, which has been modest, but which has been there. That is what has now been strangled in this debate and in the municipal economy – it is the municipal economy that stops. We now see that the Council of State is standing here on the pulpit and is raising to debate who is responsible and responsible for this over the last hundred years. That's not what's interesting today. Today it is interesting that the Bondevik administration is in charge of the maintenance of the church buildings. But the question is, has it taken the consequences? The Prime Minister recently had a meeting with the Church's management. The meeting was considered positive, but nothing concrete came out of it. I think that is symptomatic of this government's policy: positive, but nothing concrete. My question to the Council of State is this: What does Solberg think is the recipe, the recipe, to get the Church out of this mess that one is now up to when it comes to maintenance?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1454	It is not this Council of States which has raised a dispute over who is responsible for questions relating to detention and maintenance in any case. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I believe that the representatives of the Workers' Party have made a significant contribution by trying to deny that this situation has arisen over the years. If we have a situation where the budget requirement for the entire cultural memory field is over DKK 10 billion, and the church buildings amount to about $8 billion. 40 pst. Of that, and we're going to take it back just to maintain normal maintenance, it's not something that's happened in the last year. It's not like the 250 million. Dr to the Workers’ Party, which had used significantly more than that, as they have also complained that they will use better schooling, better care for the elderly, and to improve significantly in all possible other areas — such as the school sector and not least children’s and young people’s investment — would contribute to re-establishing a large number of jobs in this area. We're all saying that this is a challenge. My prescription is not ready. The government's prescription for this is not ready, and therefore we have said that we will come back to it in the further work. That is in itself what the Workers' Party says in Document No. The 8th proposal. The prescription of the Workers' Party is also not clear if the policy grip is to ask the Government to come back with a review of the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1459	It is strange that a debate on the day-to-day experience of local church bodies – whether elected or elected – should be reduced by the Council of State in charge of the local economy to a debate on what would happen if the Labour Party had its framework in place. It also seemed strange to me that my reply, which gave the Council of State the opportunity to make its point of view known to the Church's economy, reduced her to, as she said, being a comment on the post of the Christian People's Party. In this field, there is a clear difference between the signals given by the Minister of Church and Culture and the leader of the Christian People's Party on the one hand, and the signals given by the Right, the National Assembly or the Right, when it comes to the local economy. For this reason, I will once again give the Council of State the opportunity to answer whether it seems that strengthening the local economy is an important task to strengthen the Church's local economy. Or is it such that she has believed that competitive outsourcing and savings, to which she has had some disparate relations, are things that are now going to solve the Church's local economy? She has the potential to push things to the revised and the municipal proposition. It may do so, but it has the ability to express its view here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1464	In fact, the whole government believes that there is a need to give the local government more money, that there is a need to increase the allocation to the local government sector in the future because the needs of the local government sector are growing. There is also a very great need, and there is a common position in the Government, for municipalities to have greater freedom to invest their own money in the areas that are most important to local priorities, to find the good local solutions, where money is used in the best possible way, so that users of the various services are offered a good and best possible offer. Therefore, not only do we want to allocate more money to the local government sector, but we also want to give greater freedom to the local government sector through the way we allocate more money, by giving more in terms of free income. We want to reduce the detail requirements on how to solve the tasks in the local government sector. All of this will give greater room for municipalities to spend money on the church economy, on church buildings – if that is what is the local priority there, and if it is so that the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV follow up their great commitment from this debate in the local priorities. So there is a need for more money, but also for more money, where the outsourcing is one of the instruments. Intermunicipal cooperation is another important instrument, and not least that of a more freer framework for the municipal sector. The challenge, how much detail management to continue to operate, has to be taken. When we come up with proposals for more freedom in the municipal sector in relation to earmarked funds, the challenge will be to look at the municipal sector as a whole, where each scheme is not assessed in relation to what the professional interests have to think about removing that particular scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1469	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1472	There is a need to answer direct questions addressed to SV. One is that the Council of State, as I understand it, is in a hurry if SV is responsible for the priorities we have done locally. Of course we do, because unlike the Government, we don't think that the money goes to everything. Then we are honest and say that something we have had to prioritize down. SV has prioritised higher schools than church buildings in some contexts. But to think that there would have been one fat for the municipalities or for the churches if they had had the local economy of SV or SV's investment in cultural buildings, it's quite dry, because it would have meant a big difference. So to the small debate – perhaps a little curiousness – about the inclusion of earmarked grants in church finances. I just want to refer to Innst. S. No 187 for 2000–2001, which is a religious economy. SV voted for the inclusion of deposits, while the Right believed that this had to be earmarked, otherwise it would not be good – if the municipalities were allowed to take care of this money alone. So here I think there's more that need to go in the water.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1479	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2702]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1487	The called alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Ola Røtvej, has now taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1497	During the debate Jorunn Ringstad has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Central Party, and these proposals will be voted on first. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the provision of State co-financing for network deployment in areas in the country where there is no other satisfactory provision of telecommunications services.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: "Only one of the free UMTS licences will be published. An emphasis shall be placed on getting a new solid actor. The original minimum coverage requirements are maintained, but a reduction in the minimum price is considered, so that the concessionaire pays for the licence, on the one hand, through greater network deployment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1523	The President expects the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left to vote against. This should mean that the others will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1526	President!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1533	Here you go, Bjørgov Froyn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1536	During the debate, there were uncertainties about the I and what this would mean. In order to ensure that there is no doubt about the majority's proposal, I would say that this proposal is to be understood so that it will not require a new legal base, it will not require a system that is contrary to the EEA Agreement, and it will be a system that is within the scope of the concession provisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1541	This is not an explanation of vote, but an explanation which should have emerged during the debate. We're now going to voting. The I configuration is for feeding. As I said, the President expects the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1566	Here the President expects the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1585	Here the President expects the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1615	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Bjørgulf Froyn on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, from Morten Ørsal Johansen on behalf of the Progress Party The vote on the motion for a resolution will be taken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to stop the digitally grounded plans and to reconsider Norway’s digital infrastructure.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1644	The proposal of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner with an overall assessment of the development of the digital infrastructure in Norway.’ The President registered here that the Progress Party now wants to support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1664	During the debate Morten Ørsal Johansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to immediately reverse the decision of 13 February 2003 to suspend the implementation of the Decision of the Postal and Telecommunications Authority of 8 January 2003 or to immediately impose provisional conditions allowing Teletopia AS to compete with Telenor Mobil AS for the provision of SMS messages during the review investigation period.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1689	During the debate Morten Ørsal Johansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the implementation of local referendums when establishing road projects financed by tolls.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1714	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ivar Østberg on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposals No. 2-4, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2-4, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the use of the proceeds of the Information Society Fund primarily to secure the wealth contained in the church’s historical building stock and furniture.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the removal of concession law so that viticulture and other agricultural property can be traded at market prices.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to lift the obligation to provide services.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29.ana.ud2317e1754	There is an aberrant proposal, proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to carry out an overall review of the church economy. In the light of this, the Government is asked to assess the financial situation of the Church in the context of the review of the municipal economy in the Revised National Budget for 2003 and the Municipal Proposition for 2004.»
