ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e30	I needed to answer a little bit to the representative Hansen's last post. The statistics show that the number of transitional periods in the protection of children does not increase on a national basis. I can't speak directly about Eastfold. The number of persons employed in child protection has increased from the first half of 2001 to the first half of 2002. This has also been the case in the past, but this suggests that child protection is a priority in municipalities. One of the main points of the message is to ensure the proper assistance of vulnerable children at an early stage. The Child Protection Act gives responsibility for action against children who, for various reasons, do not receive the care they need. Often, good assistance will be provided at an early stage as needed by the child and the family. But, of course, someone needs more, and here, taking care and placing in foster homes or institutions could be the best thing for the child. At this stage, there is insufficient research evidence to suggest that care placements in general should have been carried out earlier in the field of child protection. The research results on this issue provide room for different discretionary interpretations. Here we actually need more research in order to be absolutely sure, and I want that to be taken into account by the representative Hansen. I agree that excessive belief in and commitment to relief measures could lead to children not getting sufficient help, especially if the help is inserted late. However, it is such that most children and families can actually be helped without drastic child protection measures. Therefore, early assistance to children and families is one of the main initiatives in the communication. That's why we're taking these grips. Of course, the Child Protection Communication takes into account the fact that, even with such a commitment, there will still be a number of children in need of care. The objective that is fully established, while intensifying assistance measures, is not to lower the threshold for taking care of a child.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e41	It may seem that some people in this room think they have exclusive rights to their wits. But I think it's smurfed evenly over, it's evenly distributed. So a little humility hadn't hurt. When the representative Afshan Rafiq stands on this platform and talks about all the municipalities that now have reason to rejoice over the tight budget proposed by the Government for 2003, the representative Rafiq is doing the job of blaming the Workers' Party. Now it's time to let go of the skirts of my mother's. Now the Government has to take responsibility for this budget. When they boast of the decline in interest rates, I just want to mention carefully that the background for the reduction in interest rates is actually also related to unemployment, which is constantly increasing, and high electricity prices. In any case, this has not led to any more child protection positions, and that is actually the child protection we are discussing today. In Child Protection, they search with light and light for means to keep those who work their health for the best of their children. So until the slightly animated 17-year-old Rafiq pulled into his post, and her ridicule of the proposal to give children and young people with measures from child protection law homes the right to treatment for drugs and psychiatry. The representative must understand what this is all about. But if she doesn't realize that this is a problem, it's probably okay for both the Right Party and the Christian Party. But for us others, who see the need to help those who are at the back, not least when it comes to waiting time for treatment, it is clearly necessary to promote the proposal. Noise and psychiatry needs are often a consequence of care failure. In this case, there is little help for child protection to take action without offering services in the field of drug and psychiatry treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e50	It's not to finish the time I asked for the word, but to clarify what is called an obvious misunderstanding here in the Storting. It was Woldseth's explanation of the composition and appointment of the members that I needed to comment on. The members are composed of a chairperson who is a lawyer, two members appointed from an expert panel, and two members from a general committee, i.e. five members from each case. The head of the county is a lawyer. It's a person who's a member of the Department of Children and Family. The 35 heads of state have a relatively varied background with experience from the courts, from the administration and from the police. In the case of employment, it will include, inter alia: focussed on experience from judicial work and knowledge of the subject. As far as the experts are concerned, they are deducted from an expert selection of mainly psychologists, child protection educators, socionomists and psychiatrists. The committee is appointed by the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. As regards the general members, each member of the county has his/her own selection of members of the county. They are also appointed by the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. These members have been taken from the judicial panel for civil matters. Before the appointment, each individual is asked if he or she is interested in sitting in the general sample. Unlike the courts, being a member of the board of directors of social affairs is not a statutory task. I thought it was right to give this information here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e65	Mr Rafiq has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e68	To the representative Eirin Fallet: From my side there has been no ridicule for children who need help and who are in a vulnerable situation. But what distinguishes us from the Workers' Party is that we do not believe that a statutory right to treatment for drugs and psychiatry is the way to go. We want an individual medical guarantee. It's independent of age and all other factors. That means that whoever needs help is going to get it, regardless of age. I think it's important to get involved. As far as the local economy is concerned, I just have to remind the representative that the tight budget of the Cooperative Government has actually led to a fall in interest rates. It has actually fallen one percentage point since the budgetary conciliation was completed. It has meant a saving on interest expenditure of several hundred million for municipalities, and more so. At the same time, jobs have been saved.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e75	May Hansen, too, has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e78	I agree with the Council when she says that there is not enough research on the problem I raised. The different disciplines say different things. But what is quite clear is that eleven percent of the population admits fewer measures than before, despite the fact that the problem is increasing, despite the fact that we are doing worse, despite the fact that more children are in poor health. I think it is strange, when a message is submitted in 2003, that these signals are not included. In terms of the legal right to treatment for drugs and psychiatry, this is related to the law we are currently dealing with. We had this up in our committee, and it was important that it was related to the Child Protection Act. And then we have a growth message that the other children will of course be followed up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e85	Eirin Faldet has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e88	It's not like the Workers' Party wants to go around with the billions either. In fact, we also agree that we need tight budgets. But then our paths are separated on the priority. We don't want to give so much in tax bills to those who already have enough. We want it to be money for the municipalities, and we actually suggested an increase. And that would have made it possible for municipalities to hire more people for example. the protection of children. Now we read in the paper that 2,500 teachers become unemployed because the municipalities don't have the money to pay them. I don't think there's any good input into child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e95	Statistics may not always be easy. You can read it in many ways. But at least it's right, as the representative of May Hansen says, for Eastfold, we know that less than half of the study leading to child protection measures has been carried out. It is few in Eastfold, with 43 pst. When the number of hospitalised cases is perhaps slightly higher, it does not mean that these children and young people do not need help or perhaps have not received it. It is not the case that everyone who does not receive child protection measures is being neglected. In many cases child protection provides good advice and guidance according to the provisions of the Children’s Act. Others are often referred to other help agencies without necessarily a decision on the basis of which the child protection service is based. In these cases, child protection may not be a reason to implement specific measures under the law. This may mean – and I hope that it means – that the prevention work in the municipality works on purpose. So, if you get here earlier, maybe the measures aren't so drastic.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e101	In fear of being accused of extending the Storting meeting unnecessarily, I note that my response, or perhaps a lack of response, to the representative Rafiq's reply to my post, has helped to extend the meeting. After the rounds that have gone on about the legal right to treatment for drugs and psychiatry, I don't now just have a good conscience that I support the proposal, as I said in my post, but now I'm actually quite convinced that it's right. With regard to the local economy, I have actually registered that the Council of State has confirmed that she sees that there will be a need for increased resources to meet the intention in the communication regarding both the first- and second-line child protection services. It promises well towards the 2004 budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e110	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1850]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e126	Document No 8:12 is a proposal by the Socialist Left Party of Rolf Rikvam and Øystein Djupedal for the appointment of a wide-ranging public commission to assess the relationship between church and state. The Church, Education and Research Committee has divided itself into a majority and a minority in this matter. The majority, consisting of the members of the Right Party, the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, indicate that the Church Meeting in 2002 took a decision to get a public commission to investigate the relationship between the Norwegian Church and the State. We have noticed that the Council of Churches has agreed to set up such a commission, and it has been important for this majority to find out that the Commission needs to have a broad composition. It must have representation from all over the country. It is intended to ensure gender balance, and members must represent different religious and political views. Furthermore, the Commission must also have members from outside the Norwegian Church. The majority also believe that the representativeness of the Commission depends more on the composition of the Commission than on whether it is the Storting or the Government that makes the appointment. The Progress Party and the representative Simonsen have their own proposal and have said that if that proposal falls, it would be natural for the Government to make the appointment of a Commission, if it is to be appointed. The Socialist Left has its own proposal in line with the document's proposal. When it comes to the matter itself, the majority say that they want to ‘The Commission must assess the relationship between the State and the Norwegian Church in a broad sense, including, inter alia, the State Church, legislation and economy relationship as the basis for a people’s church for the future’. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I just want to add that I have expectations that one of the first issues that the Commission is addressing is the Church's economy. In Addressavias today there is a look up with Bishop Wagle, who says that the Church is ‘in a systemic crisis’. He is quite right about that. The Church Act today has a conflict in the sense that it is the bishops who determine the level of activity, it is the municipalities who are to finance it, and it is the church councils that are financially responsible. The system conflict of this kind is what makes many in the Church feel that the economy is becoming difficult, and they feel that the economy is becoming a waste of money between the different people who are responsible for it. So let me finally express the expectation that the Church Commission will address this challenge, that we will be able to investigate a unified church economy, as the Christian People's Party called for two years back in the context of the Storting's handling of the paper on the Church's economy. I do not believe this system conflict will be resolved until the Church itself is held responsible for both revenue and expenditure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e148	There are several points that are interesting in today's Document No. 8-proposals – first of all, that the proposers give the future Commission a mandate to facilitate a distinction between state and church. It is therefore clear that the Commission should have this as its mandate. From this point of view, it is natural to draw the conclusion that SV will actively work for a distinction between state and church, regardless of what the people might want. Well, I know that the Bakkevig Committee has concluded with a distinction. I know that the Church meeting said a well – a half way clear signal – that the process of a division should continue. But we also know that a majority of the country's council said no to the Bakkevig committee's position. The response from the grassroots, from the councils, thus shows a very great distance between the Church's management and the Church's basic plan. I think we should let this be about process, and that we start at the right end. What I am concerned about is that the mandate should be worked out thoroughly, that the Commission is representative of the width of the church, and that it has a broad lashing there, both geographically and sexually. For me, representativeness is a key element, while it is important that the Commission should start with blank papers, in the sense that the process until its conclusion is not bound from the very beginning. This with the Commission's mandate is important, precisely because in the Grand Duchy there is disagreement as to whether the Norwegian people should be given the opportunity to decide how to organise the church of the baptized – in other words whether to have a future referendum, or whether to leave it. We are in the middle of this debate now, and the level of tension in this matter is known to us all. It's been almost 90 years since the Norwegian people were invited to a similar debate. At that time, too, a referendum was held, and the people went for the arrangement we have today – the Church of State. The Labour Party will meet this debate with an open mind. We want to listen to recordings coming, and we want to await the Commission's investigation. And last, but not least: then we're going to decide whether it's going to be a referendum or not, and then we're going to decide how this is to be organised. As the rapporteur said, the question of who should appoint the Church-State Commission is irrelevant to how representative we can get it. The composition of the Commission is essential. Whether the appointment is made by a magnification or a government should not be decisive. The Labour Party considers that there are relevant examples of the traditional appointment of these types of commissions by governments, even though the Sivertsen Committee was appointed in due course in a co-operation between magnificence and government. I think it is important that SV takes inward into this matter that the Council of Churches has actually invited the parties on the Stortinget to make proposals for candidates to the Commission. In this way, the Storting will actually have direct influence over half of the members of the Commission. That should be satisfactory for SV. Personally, I also believe that it is more orderly that the Commission has one contracting entity and one address to deliver its product to. In any case, the size will have ample opportunity to debate both the Bakkevig Committee's position and what the public commission will conclude with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e167	The relationship between state and church has entered into a constructive process, and it is Righty pleased. The Church's own church-state committee, appointed by the Council of Churches in February 1998, delivered its position a year ago. The attitude, where a large majority supported a distinction between state and church, has since been at the hearing of church organs. It has been widely agreed that the process should continue through a public sample to assess the case further. The right agrees with such a further process. In our programme for the current ageing period, it says: ‘The reform process of the transfer of greater responsibilities to church bodies should continue. The right considers that reform work should lead to a distinction between Church and State.’ So we agree with the church selection. Such a process must necessarily take time and contain the necessary assessments of all foreseeable issues and issues. To this end, the right agrees that a wide-ranging public commission is needed to further explore the relationship between church and state. We can hardly accept the argument from the Progress Party that there is no need for further investigation. Well, the Bakkevig Committee has provided a solid setting, but one of the conclusions of the Church Council was precisely the need for further work on the question. And the Church Council favoured the establishment of a public selection. The Church's desire and need for further investigation is supported by the Right. For the Right, it's not the most important thing who appoints the Commission. As the rapporteur said, the Council of Churches has agreed to set up such a commission, and we cannot see serious reasons why it should not be the Government that appoints the Commission in this case as well. We have every reason to believe that the government will appoint a commission with the necessary width and weight. It is important to underline, as also the representative Eva M. Nielsen did, the need for the Commission to have a broad composition, as we also say in the majority remarks. Of course, the Commission must have members linked both to the Norwegian Church and to religious and life-seeker organisations outside the Norwegian Church. The majority comments also mention good geographical representation, gender balance protection and good political breadth. It is also important that the Commission acquires wide professional competence. The Commission needs expertise in many fields so that all issues relating to the relationship between state and church can be assessed with the necessary weight and legitimacy. This is undoubtedly a very important commission. And the composition of it, the mandate, the process and the methodology of work will be of great importance. The right considers that these considerations will be safeguarded by the appointment of the selection by the Government, and we therefore support the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e185	Let me start by including our suggestion in the setting. The Progress Party believes that what the Progress Party has thought about this matter for 30 years is that we should have a distinction between Church and State. That is why we are proposing it on this occasion as well. We assume that there should be work on legal issues, on economic issues and on the organisation of a freed church with broad democratic membership. We assume that the consequences for other religious and life-view societies are resolved through such work, and that they occur in several parallel selections. Finally, we assume that samplers are appointed for such a task, which has a wide and varied background, and not least that the Stortinge is informed of progress and results in the process. I believe Mr Lyngstad is quite right that the Church is in a system conflict. Our best prescription and our best answer to it is just to implement a distinction between church and state. We are also concerned that it is the people, the broad team of the people, who are to be asked. So far are the only sure answers we have, actually from surveys, but they suggest that there has been a shift, there is a shift going on in people's perception of how the relationship between church and state should be. If I remember correctly, the last measurement we had was just before New Year's, the first measurement that showed a clear yes-view from the people who asked if you wanted such a distinction or not. I also noticed that there were relatively few people who did not have an opinion. When it is that a majority wants to have further investigation on this, we in the Progress Party have no difficulty in joining in that it is the Government that appoints such a commission. We think that's natural. We have also understood that the majority is concerned with the same thing as the Progress Party, that when you choose that solution, it should be broadly composed, so that many views come along.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e196	The representative of Sortevik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e199	Sometimes you wonder if you've heard correctly. When the representative Arne Lyngstad says that the problems in the Church's economy are caused by a systemic crisis, he cannot correctly understand the reason why many churches today have to be closed because they cannot afford to keep the church open. This is a result of the budgeting done by the Storting. This is the result of the starvation of Stortinget to the local government sector. It is mainly the municipal sector that finances the Church. We are now spending over $2 billion for the Norwegian Church, and most of this is going to be over municipal budgets, over framework budgets for the municipal sector. So the fact that the Church is experiencing an economic crisis is the result of the local government sector experiencing a crisis, and that is the result of the majority decision here in Stortinget. So honestly, the representative Arne Lyngstad should be that you take responsibility for the situation that has arisen for the Norwegian Church, in the way that one is now about to close the churches, because you can't afford to keep them open. There are certain things that reach a historical point where there is only one answer. The church-state relationship is such a matter. We have gone from being a religiously homogeneous society to becoming a pluralistic society where different views of faith and life live side by side. Some old institutions have survived themselves. The State Church is such an institution. That's 85 pst. of the Norwegian people are members, there is no argument for maintaining an institution that the minority perceives as giving priority to one view of life rather than others. The church has tort to take this inward. A majority in the Bakkevig Committee, appointed by the Council of Churches, concluded that there is a need to change relations between the State and the Church. The matter has been consulted in the Church's organs. Relatively many of the councils support the majority in the Bakkevig Committee, and there is reason to commend the Church for this. It is the Church of State that is to give up privileges. It's not often that those who have advantages suggest giving them away. The strength of democracy is characterized primarily by its way of dealing with minorities. It's not the state church that primarily needs to be detached from the state. Through the new Council structure, the Church has gained a high degree of freedom to settle internal affairs. It is primarily the consideration of the minority and the Church of the State itself, as the anachronism it is, that needs to be changed. This will be an important matter in the years to come. It is the Storting that will eventually change the Constitution when that time comes. It is therefore important to hold a continuous debate until this distinction, and it is important that we manage to mobilise a popular commitment around this matter, that people take part, and that people engage. It is also important that as many as possible have a ownership relationship with the process that is now to begin. That is why Stortinget should take greater responsibility. We could have done that by appointing parts of the Commission and by laying down the mandate. I'm not sure the government will secure the width that such a commission must have. We have a government council that has previously stated that there may not be a need for minority groups to be part of such a commission and have gone back on this. But it was a statement that came quite early. And I'm not sure that the Council of States has fully brought the scope and consequences of this matter. So this isn't just a matter for the Church, it's rather that it's perhaps the most important thing for those who are not members of the Church. I regret that there was not a majority in favour of our proposal that the Storting should take action, not to overdo the Council of State, but just to ensure the breadth of such a mandate, and, not least, that the Storting may have a ownership relationship with what is to happen. This is going to be a matter that someone else is dealing with, someone else is working with, someone else is investigating. This could become a matter in which the Stortinget had a direct ownership relationship by agreeing to appoint a commission, and thereby helped secure the ongoing debate that we are now going to have in the future, and that will and must end up separating the state and the church. It is far ahead, but I feel reasonably sure that the conclusion has been reached. I refer to the proposal contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e225	Rolf Rikham has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e228	The Central Party is part of the majority that says clearly that a Commission should be set up, and that it is natural that it is the Council of State, that it is the Government that establishes this Commission. We're in and we're stressing the representativity that such a commission must have. The Council of State has repeatedly expressed its opinion on the Commission. She was probably a bit hesitant at first, but from what we've recorded that the Council of State has said in terms of representativeness, and that it's also going to be with people in this commission who are not members of the Church, the Central Party is familiar with it. It was an approach here to and against the Church of State. It has several of the posts worn off. The central party is, in fact, the party here at Stortinget which has the greatest belief in the state church as a state church. But we believe it is important to have a broad-based assessment of the relationship between the state and the church, the law and the economy around it. I share the description of the church economy with the representative Rikvam. And I think in a way it's a little bit of an easy for the representative of the Christian People's Party to talk about the systemic crisis in that context. Although one clearly sees and knows that it is the bishop who determines the number of religious services etc., the bishop has done so for many years, and the Church has also functioned economically useful for years – but not now. Now, what we hear from the Church is that there is a real danger. In fact, I was not surprised that a majority of the Socene Councils do not support the conclusion of the Bakkevig Committee. The church we have is rooted and has a safe place in our people. When the majority of the Soccer Councils have so far said that they do not share the conclusion of the Bakkevig Committee, it is actually quite easy to understand. I think so. The centre party believes that when a commission comes up with something – and we believe it should run slowly – a matter as important as the separation of church and state, if necessary, must be put to a referendum. So important is actually this matter for the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e241	The debate on the relationship between state and church is not a new debate. It is one of the oldest debates that is still alive in the Kingdom of Norway. It has been on the agenda since the mid-1900s, but it has gone in waves back and forth, and the mood has changed from period to period. The last time a public commission investigated the relationship between state and church, is a human age ago. The Sivertsen Commission delivered its position in the mid-1970s. The course around this Commission may be interesting to draw on as a basis for comparison of the position on the table today. At that time everyone took it for granted that an investigation of the state/church relationship could be carried out by one commission, which could take care of the Church as well as the State's interests. The commission that was appointed reflected that thinking. That half of the members were appointed by the Stortinget and half were appointed by the government, I think had less significance. Looking at the composition of the Commission, it consisted, for one half, of people who were active and central in the Norwegian Church, with ecclesiastical, theological and other competences, and the other half of those who were central politicians, who were perceived as representative of the state's interests. But the interesting thing was that at the time you thought of it for granted that this got united in one commission, which was just as high a churchy as a state commission. In 1975, a large majority of this Commission recommended the transition to the so-called free People's Church, i.e. the abolition of the state church system. In the consultation round afterwards, it turned out that an overwhelming majority of the country's councils and local authorities, all of whom were hearing bodies, turned the thumb down and said no, we don't want any of that. So there was an almost eye-catching gap between what a large majority of the Commission recommended, and the grassroots desire. What came out of this was a reform process within the given framework. The conclusion was that none of what was the framework for the relationship between state and church — all the constitutional paragraphs relating to this — would change. But within the framework that stood firm, one wanted to give the Norwegian Church and thus its own organs a much greater degree of internal autonomy than it had before. In this way, it can be said that the result was a reform process that has had a significant scale and has changed the system of the Norwegian Church more than ever before in the history of the state church system. Today, we all take it for granted that the process must be carried out with two investigations, one of a church-reduced commission, which has had the task of investigating this on the basis of the Church's ambition and the way the Church looks at its future, and then a state commission, which then must be assumed to investigate this on the premises of the state and according to the interests of the state must take care of in this context. It reflects the change that has occurred between 1975 and 2003. Today, the Norwegian Church has a representative top body, the Church Meeting. You didn't have that in the 1970s. Today it is possible to carry out such an investigation, partly as a church investigation and partly as a state. It wasn't like that in 1975. The practical disagreement in the attitude of the Church, Education and Research Committee is – as far as I can see – almost microscopic. There is full agreement that a public commission should be set up. The only thing to disagree about is whether the Government will normally appoint it in consultation with the political parties on the Stortinget, or whether the Stortinget will appoint half of its members. The practical difference will probably be almost equal to zero. The only place where there is a marked difference – as far as I can see – is in the proposal put forward by the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen. It differs from the position of the majority by pre-empting the conclusion. That's the point that really surprises me the most. If I have not registered errors, the Progress Party has also submitted a Document No. 8-proposal for a referendum on the relationship between state and church. It makes me wonder if you follow the words of Scripture a little too literally – that one hand doesn't know what the other does. It is not quite right that, on the one hand, we should present this to the referendum – what should be the question is a little unclear, but we would ask people to take their position – and on the other hand, first we would put down a Commission with a binding mandate. How does the Progress Party think that if you were to get a majority in favour of the motion for a referendum, and it turned out that there was a majority who did not want a distinction between the state and the church at all? Here's something that's hard for me to jump into. I can understand the desire for a referendum, even though I think it can be very beneficial until you have a problem that is so clear that people have something to stand up to, so that people know what the options to choose from are. At this stage, no such knowledge exists. It can also be understood that a political party has a final position on this and wants to set up a commission with a binding mandate. But how you can wish both parts at the same time goes beyond my understanding. For my part, I believe that the issue of referendum, with the benefit of all parties, can be dealt with until the broad investigation has been carried out. At that time we will know whether it is a broad political consensus. In that case, it might be that a referendum will appear as an organistry. Or you'll have perfectly clear alternatives that it's reasonable to invite people to take their stand through a referendum. Finally, let me mention that our nearest neighbouring country, Sweden, which in many ways has the same history from the Reformation period of – a common history with Norway in relation to the relationship between state and church – has led the same debate for about as long as we have done here in the country. It was politically controversial over a long period of time. The political parties disagreed. But the Swedish power actually had the art of carrying out such a thorough investigation of all the legal, historical and, not least, economic conditions associated with the future of the Church of Sweden that it became a unanimous Parliamentary decision, which laid the foundation for what is called ‘changed relations between state and church’ in Swedish terminology. At my discretion, it would be desirable for us in Norway too to reach the widest possible cross-political agreement, preferably in time a unanimous decision in the UK. That would be an advantage for all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e270	It was a bit strange, because the representative, Mr Wohnning, had a long investigation into matters that the Committee is dealing with, namely the proposal of the Progress Party on referendum. We'll get back to that. It's not a topic in this debate, but I noticed that the representative Wohnning swung into it also on his tour around the story. It's true that this time we're adding up to two investigations, and that's because the Church has done its job. It has taken an initiative and done some work. Now the ball is with us. It is our responsibility to take it and get this investigation started. There are not only small nuances in the difference between what SV stands for and what the majority stands for. There are significant differences. I'll point to two, which I also tried to make in my post. Firstly, there will be a guarantee to ensure the width of such a commission, if the Storting takes responsibility. It will be a guarantee that the Storting is responsible for parts of this Commission. We're ensuring a width, which I'm essentially choosing to believe that the Council of State will also ensure. But to be absolutely sure, I believe that we should have taken the grip on it ourselves. Secondly, and that's probably the most important thing, which I stressed in my first post, that those who are appointed to the Commission also get a ownership relationship with this, and that they get an involvement with this. It's important that the Storting has an ownership relationship to this, has an involvement. By taking responsibility for appointing the Commission, taking responsibility for the mandate, it will also be easier to participate in the forthcoming debate. Because it's not about a commission working for a certain number of years, and then people start to debate. Here's an ongoing discussion, an ongoing conversation in the open room. That's what a commission has to facilitate. If the Storting had had a stronger ownership of this, I feel confident that they would also have taken greater responsibility for participating in the open-room debate that is coming in the years to come. That's what I'm disappointed that the majority doesn't want to add up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e283	I'm familiar with that Document No. The 8th proposal from the Progress Party, which I mentioned in my speech, is being discussed in the Scientific Committee – of course it does. The reason I mentioned it was that I wanted to point out the incomprehensible fact that one and the same party can take two incompatible positions at the same time – that on the one hand one can go in to set up a commission with a binding mandate, and, on the other hand, at the same time can go in to hold a referendum on the same issue. I'm kind of having a hard time understanding that. I want to maintain that the practical difference, as I said, between the proposal from SV and the majority position is microscopic. The representative Rikham knows just as well as I do that in his preparatory work with this Commission, the Council of State has addressed the parties on the Stortinget and asked each party to come up with its proposals. The exact same thing would have happened if Stortinget had formally been responsible. It would have been the same political parties that had been asked to do the exact same thing. So I probably have to insist that more microscopically than this difference, it should be done to find examples that differences might be. I think that Rivamm serves an unreasonably loud rhetoric in relation to the practical difference between these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e290	In relation to Mr. Rikham's comments, where he justifies the SV's proposal that the Stortinge should have a ownership relationship, and then says that when the Stortinge does not appoint the Commission, as well as the Stortinge or the political parties will not participate in this debate in the open room, I, quite briefly, need to say that then I think the representative of Rikham knows the political parties too badly, and also the individual representatives of the magnificence who know how to participate in the debate in the media. I think it's important that we get this sample work started. I think it will be able to clarify the premises for the debates and final conclusions. We have from the church team the Bakkevig committee, which has made suggestions on a number of good premises for future conditions, but the fact that the Storting does not appoint the selection or participate in it, as well as putting some lid on the debate, becomes a claim that I think is completely wrong, and that lacks root in the political reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e297	Rolf Rikvam has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e300	I have not said that I will put any lid on the debate by not appointing the Commission. That's not the point. The point – and I think it’s strange that someone doesn’t take that point – is that those who take an initiative and initiate some processes will also have a stronger relationship with this in the future. In my opinion – I repeat myself – it is extremely important that we have a good debate with the greatest possible participation, and not least that of big business representatives in the open room. I am absolutely sure that would have been easier and would have been made visible earlier if we had been responsible for this Commission, and not least were responsible for the mandate of this Commission. That was my point. And I notice that the representative inge Wohnung does not mention it at all. He mentions who's going to appoint it. He didn't touch my second point at all, that's what matters with ownership. If we're going to make a difference in a good way, and we want that -- a distinction comes whether we want it or not, because this has come to a historic point where it's driven by its own power and its own weight -- it's terribly important that everyone participates, participates as much as possible, and has a relationship with what's going to happen in a certain number of years. And that was our point, to ensure this and to facilitate that we get a good debate in the future. And we can, by the fact that we, the Storting, have taken a greater responsibility for the work to be done in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e307	Inge Wohnning has also had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e310	It is a good thing that the Rules of Procedure restrict the number of posts, but I just have to get back to saying that I still think that the Rikham's problem is quite designed. It could possibly have had some relevance if his posts had been held before the 1880s. But parliamentaryism is, as is well known, introduced as a state practice in Norway, and most of us have registered it for the longest time. That's why there's actually not such a distance between magnification and government that the representative Rikvam seems to believe. So I would recommend that Rikvam take the step from the period before 1880 to the period after 1880.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e315	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footing, see page 1853]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e331	With the thing we're going to deal with now, I think we're going to be able to get down on the ground thoroughly again, not to say underground, in relation to the much bigger matter of the state church that we've been through, and that was about to fly up a little bit to heaven. The matter currently under consideration is a private proposal by the Socialist Left Party, which proposes that the Storting should ask «The government is proposing amendments to the law and legislation to ensure that religious and life views are treated in an equal way in relation to services and ceremonomy in relation to cemeteries and cemeteries», and ask «The government assesses whether the current administrative system provides the minority groups with an adequate experience of the cemeteries as a public graveyard». There is no doubt that a tomb with known ceremonies is an important part of the grief after death. The entire Committee therefore underlines the importance of a worthy tomb ceremony. However, the Committee is divided as to whether there is a need for political follow-up to this matter. The majority of the Committee, in fact all the parties other than the Socialist Left Party plus the undersigned, considers that the necessary consideration for a tomb to be marked by dignity and solemnity and for respect for the individual's faith and outlook on life is adequately respected in today's law and that no changes are necessary. For example, the representatives of the Progress Party conclude that regulations and frameworks are practiced with respect and transparency to other religious and life-view societies, and that local authorities have a good dialogue with the different religious and life-view societies in finding practical solutions. However, I am of the opinion that the Socialist Left would hardly have raised this matter if all users of burial services had been satisfied. The Socialist Left Party has had close contact with different religious communities in its work on the proposal and has also held a larger consultation with several religious communities after the matter was sent to the Stortinget. In other words, there can be no doubt that there is a potential for improvement, which I think the majority should take something more seriously. For example, it's not an insignificant trifle, too small to be mentioned in a big paper, that there's no water in the tomb chapels. Because the churches are dedicated and therefore cannot be loaned out to religious communities outside the Norwegian Church, the tomb chapels are the most used ceremony for other religious and life-view societies. When Muslims have to wash their hands in connection with tombs as part of an important religious act that emotionally means a lot to the individual, it is not an immaterial practical problem that there is a lack of running water. When new burial chapels are built, there will be an advantage if such considerations are taken into account. Nor is it an immaterial problem that the tomb chapels are so small that many have to stand outside the tomb chapel in cold, rain, and snow. Of course, this is also a problem at some Christian funerals and should be rectified when new burial chapels are built. There are probably also many other practical problems that can be solved at no cost to the public of the world. In order to deal more easily with the practical problems that exist, it is beneficial that there is the closest possible contact between the Gravferdsrat, such as, among other things. consist of the Ministry, the Bureau, the State Church and the representatives of the religious and life views. Today, the head of the Gravferdsrådet is a member of the Co-operation Council for the Doctrine of Faith and Life. Then it could not have been harmed if it had also been reversed, so that the head of the Cooperation Council had become a member of the Gravferdsrådet.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e346	There is no disagreement that every individual has the right to have a tomb adapted to the individual's view of life and religion. The Committee's examination of the matter has revealed that a great deal has been done by the authorities in order to facilitate this. In this respect, I would like to refer to the evaluation of the agreement on burial in Oslo between the Church Council and the Municipality, which the Committee has seen. The feedback from the organisations of faith and life shows that today’s arrangements are working well. In the opinion of the Right, there is no need to amend the laws and regulations of the day. The practical problems that are not satisfactorily solved should be solved through good dialogue between the Norwegian Church and local authorities, on the one hand, and the relevant religious and life views, on the other. It is my belief that it will be easier to find good solutions to practical problems in this way than through laws and regulations. The churches are dedicated buildings and must of course be respected as such. It must also be respected that the church clocks have a liturgical function and thus a religious significance. The generalization of churches and church bells must not go so far as to forget that the church is dedicated, and that the church bells are part of a complex and meaningful liturgy. With regard to the question of payment for the use of burial chapel or other relevant ceremony, it is important to point out that where payment is required, this is determined by the municipality and is, of course, made independent of belief or outlook on life. If it is to be paid, this must also be done at the funeral of members of the Norwegian Church, so there is no difference here. The most important thing about a tomb is that the feast is adapted to the individual's faith and outlook on life and is marked by celebration and dignity, and that burial grounds and seremony are of satisfactory standard. In our view, too, these are practical issues that can best be solved through good dialogue. I also believe that it is important that good and necessary information is provided to religious communities and life-vision organisations, so that everyone has good knowledge of existing laws and regulations. With regard to the Gravferdsrådet, on which the rapporteur was involved, it is important to stress that this is an independent body, and is therefore not appointed by the Ministry. That there must be good cooperation, of course. From this point of view, we see no reason to make changes to today's law. We believe that laws and regulations take into account the legitimate demands that are there – on adaptation, on celebration and on dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e363	Here I can be even more brief than in the previous case. The Progress Party has also noted the evaluation carried out in the Municipality of Oslo, which is quite fresh. We have noticed that some have not cared about answering. This indicates that it works well. Furthermore, we have noticed that someone who has responded has said that they are very pleased. We have also highlighted comments and descriptions of the issues raised by the Ministry. Our conclusion is that both laws, regulations and frameworks are practiced with adherence and openness to other religious and life-view societies. Therefore, the Progress Party does not see the need for any change in the legal and regulatory framework and suggests that the document be rejected. I'm addressing our suggestion about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e370	For approx. Ten years ago, American economist John Galbraith wrote a book entitled "The Satisfied Majority". Galbraith was a central economist all the way back in the Kennedy period of American politics. The book was a violent settlement to the economic policy pursued in the 1980s in the United States under Reagan and in the United Kingdom under Maggie Thatcher. This was a policy inspired by economist Milton Friedman. What does this have to do with the matter we are dealing with now? Actually, very little, but the title 'The satisfied majority' characterizes us in too many contexts. It is the satisfied majority who speak in this matter – the majority. The majority believe that everything is very well in our law. But everything is not very well when the minorities ask us to address this, and when the minorities experience problems. The majority believe that everything has been put in place in our legislation, so that there is no need for changes in any area. Enough attention has been paid to the celebration of the tomb, and no changes are needed. It is not a statutory task for the municipalities to have a burial chapel, so we cannot give guidelines. The state grants grants to church buildings, so here it is free for minority religious communities to apply, so that they can also get their building. The Tomb Council is an informal body, so why should we say something about this? Why should minorities have something to do with this? Dialogue is the answer. SV is uncertain about how our law works. We're actually kind of unsure whether there are things that should be done differently. What we are asking for is for the ministry to go through this with those who feel that it is unfair that they are being affected unfairly. That's what dialogue is. It is well possible that everything is very well. If we assume the input we get, it's not like that. SV has had a larger meeting. We called it a hearing, with representatives from some religious minority groups. What was interesting was that those who came mainly to that meeting were Christian minorities in Oslo. They thought it was very good, and that it was a very important matter that was taken up, not because they had encountered great problems as Christian minorities, but because it was important that we went through the law and other things, put some things on the agenda and got cleaned up where there was a need for it. Something else we're not really asking for. But the satisfied majority feel that this is not necessary. I'll take up our suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e385	Rolf Rikham has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1853]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e395	Then Stortinget will vote on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e514	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kjell Engretsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 2, from Carl I. Hagen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 1) by the Workers' Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal and the proposal is amended as follows: ‘The Government is advised to ensure that the legislation is in accordance with the intentions and, where appropriate, to propose legislative changes where the general rule is that residence in the country of origin leads to withdrawal of asylum status.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion of censure – and considers it to be adopted. There will then be a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The President noted that the proposal was in its amended version and now reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the withdrawal of the Mullah Krekar residence permit on the basis of repeated visits to the country of origin, as a threat to the security of the State and for foreign policy reasons, and sends him back to Iraq.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e561	Mr Woldseth has asked for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e564	It concerns proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and SV. I would like to ask the Workers' Party and the SV to turn this into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e569	After such a fine and good request for a forwarding proposal from the Progress Party, we from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party will comply.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e574	Then we'll come back to it later when we get to the vote. In the course of the debate, 17 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Mr Eirin Fallet, on behalf of the Workers' Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 4, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, on 5-7, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party, No. 8 and 9, by Eirin Fallet, on behalf of the Workers' Party, No. 10, by May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 11 and 12, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 13–17, from May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 13–17, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the municipalities to have a Youth Health Station in their municipality. The youth health centre may be a municipal or inter-municipal offer to young people.’» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that MST teams are expanded in all counties and that it is continued and stepped up as planned in the counties of 2002.’; Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider introducing a supervisory regime applicable to all children for whom public care has been provided, both in foster home and for adoption.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks for the possibility of the biological siblings being granted an independent right to contact each other before the age of 18.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government requests the implementation of research into child protection measures and the coherence between policy priorities, and returns to a report on the reasons for the wide range of responses to the problems of children and young people in municipalities and counties.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e638	The proposals are then put to the vote. 11 and 12, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a legislative amendment so that, when children are placed outside the home, the child’s immediate family, such as grandparents or uncle and aunt, shall always be investigated as the first alternative.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The ruling asks the Government to amend the law in such a way as to abolish the social security systems, and the matters raised there are referred back to the ordinary judicial system.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e660	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for an authorisation system of asylum recipients for unaccompanied minor asylum seekers in line with child protection institutions.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e675	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to assess the consequences of introducing an authorisation system for the reception of unaccompanied minor asylum seekers in line with child protection institutions. The majority asks the Government to submit such an impact assessment during 2003.’ The President expects the Socialist Left and the Centre to support the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e692	Proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party, the President will come back. The proposals are then put to the vote. 5-7, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that children be given a legal right to child protection services.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the content of the Danish SSP cooperation and to present a case with proposals for the introduction of similar cooperation in Norway.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for amending the Act on Child Protection Services § 7-4. The Child’s Spokesperson to change the text to ‘should nominate’.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e721	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the amendment of the Child Protection Act to ensure that lone minor asylum seekers under 18 years of age, in line with the single Norwegian child, are protected by the Child Protection Act upon arrival in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e736	The President will now return to proposal No. 9, from the Labour Party, and expects that the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to support this proposal subsidiaryly when their proposal No. 4 has now been rejected. The proposal reads as follows: ‘During 2003, the Government asks for an opinion on the Child Protection Act to be amended to ensure that unaccompanied minor asylum seekers under the age of 18 are protected by the Child Protection Act on arrival in Norway in line with the single Norwegian child.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e751	There will then be a vote on the proposal No. 1-3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The President first refers to proposal No. 2, converted into a transmission proposal and worded as follows: ‘It is recommended to the Government that the county council be given an instruction authority in relation to municipal child protection. The county council may also review the professional assessments for the protection of children.’» The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without a vote of the facts – and considers it to be acceptable. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish an emergency phone for children as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit to the Storting a review of the use of coercion in the field of child protection.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e803	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e823	The President expects the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e865	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsenproposal No. 2, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The proposal of the Socialist Left Party is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Storting for a wide-ranging public commission to investigate important aspects of the relationship between the State and the Norwegian Church. The size shall appoint half of the members. The remainder shall be appointed by the Government. The mandate shall be adopted by the Stortinget. This matter shall be brought before the end of March 2003.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e891	The proposal by the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen is being put to the vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to initiate work to prepare for the implementation of a distinction between church and state.The majority assumes that legal issues, economic issues and the organisation of a freed church with a broad democratic membership, as well as the assessment of the impact on other religious and life-view societies are resolved by working in several parallel selections.The government assumes that the government appoints sample members with a broad and varied background and that the Storting is informed of progress and results in the work.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e924	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, The proposal of the Socialist Left Party is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for legislative and regulatory changes to ensure that religious and life-viewing minorities receive equal treatment in relation to services and seremony in relation to graveyards and cemeteries.2. The Government asks the Government to assess whether the current administrative system provides the minority groups with an adequate experience of the cemeteries as a public graveyard.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11-2.ana.ud1257e950	The proposal from the Progress Party reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:33 [[2002-2003]] Alternatively, this proposal will be replaced by the Committee's decision.
