ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e38	The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Rita Tveiten, has taken the seat. Representative Rolf Terje Klungland will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e46	On behalf of the representatives of Asmund Kristoffersen, Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen, Tore Nordtun and myself, I would like to propose strategies to help the Norwegian gas treatment industry and the petrochemical industry to access raw materials.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e51	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e65	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 367]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e81	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 367]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e97	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e106	The majority today endorses the Government's proposal that Petoro AS, on behalf of the country's direct financial involvement, be granted for the period until the permit of installations and the operation of a new gas transport system to the United Kingdom is granted, may incur commitments that will be necessary for the gas transport system's installations for up to 600 million. kr. It is proposed in St.prp. No 81 that the State may incur commitments, including contracts and their possible conclusion, relating to the installation of a new gas transport system to the United Kingdom, during the period until the formal establishment of partnerships for the installation of such pipelines. The gas transport system is planned to be developed by an investor group consisting of rightholders on a Norwegian base in connection with the expansion of the Worm Lange field, which is planned to start in 2007. The companies aim to submit a plan of installations and operations in the fourth quarter of 2003. The prerequisite for such a presentation will include, inter alia: the UK and Norwegian authorities have in good time established principles for the treatment of powers, inter alia. the pipeline project. Based on this, the Ministry of Oil and Energy will present the matter to the Storting in the first quarter of 2004. In the proposal, the government indicates that the formal involvement of the new gas transport system will be finally established at the time that the Ministry authorises plant and operation. It will also then be decided whether to participate in the partnership via the direct financial involvement of the country under the Petroleum Act. This is the normal procedure for the planning and construction of new export pipelines. In the current pre-interest phase, it is desirable that Petoro be able to participate, on behalf of the EEAS, in contractual relationships that would involve the commitment of funds for BEES for installations of the new gas transport system. It is therefore proposed that such participation should be formally anchored and that Petoro should be able to participate in the necessary contractual relationships also during the period before the permit to plant and operation is granted. In the opinion of the Committee, it is important to clarify rapidly in this case, in particular in view of the progress of the Worm Lange project, which is planned to be launched in 2007. It will be necessary for the companies concerned to incur commitments before the Storting can formally agree that the Ministry of Oil and Energy will grant permission for the installation and operation of the new gas transport system. The Committee further points out that the prerequisite for such an agreement, inter alia: The United Kingdom and the Norwegian authorities will have established principles for the treatment of powers in good time. the pipeline project, and that such principles were established between the British and Norwegian authorities on 2 October 2003. The Committee has noted that costs that may be incurred before the installation and operation of the gas transport system are proposed to be covered in the re-salating proposal in autumn 2003 or in the 2004 government budget, depending on whether they are incurred in the current year or early 2004. Prior to the Committee's suspension, there was a debate on the impact that the planned pipeline could have on the possibilities for future deliveries of raw gas to mainland Norway. The Committee has been informed by correspondence with the Ministry that the agreement concluded between the Council of State and his British colleague does not involve any commitments or economic consequences which impair such possibilities. In this context, the letter from the Minister for Oil and Energy to the Committee dated 17 October 2003. The members of the Committee of the Right and Christian People's Party stress that this issue does not really fall within the scope of the consideration of St. prp. No 81, and that the Stortinge will have the opportunity to discuss this in the context of the submission of the oil communication in spring 2004. However, these lots are included in the Committee’s reference to the importance of the NHG to mainland Norway and the further development of the petrochemical industry. In this context, the majority of the Committee refers to the ongoing expansion of the gas treatment plants on Kårstø and Borealis’ proposed investments in the expansion of the cracker on Norethyl, Rafnes. The majority also emphasise that the landing of gas from Worm Lange to Nyhamna is also an important contribution to increasing the treatment and potential use of natural gas in Norway. On this basis, the Committee agrees that during the period until plant and operations are provided, Petoro AS may enter into commitments on behalf of the EEAS for up to 40 pst. of the total investment in the projects and that the determination of the share of the investment will be made in connection with the approval of the Storting for the installation and operation of the new gas transport system. With this, I recommend the present vote and the committee's recommendation for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e134	The working party is pleased with the unanimous vote it is for the case that is being dealt with today. The issue is that Norway should export gas to energy production in the United Kingdom. It's positive. The working party believes it is right that alternative energy such as coal and nuclear power is much worse environmental. However, there must be a cross of thought for the government parties, and not least the SV, that they support what is to be adopted today. It is true that the Nordic region has doubled its CO2 emissions in the last year due to increased coal power generation. We have too little energy today, and the result is increased pollution, sky-high electricity prices and the deflagration of Norwegian industry. The government parties show no willingness to improve this situation, while SV has shown direct reluctance to participate in anything as monks. But exports of gas to the United Kingdom seem to be quite fine. There is reason to wonder about the double morality that shines through in this matter. Could it be so difficult to understand that when the gas is absorbed from the North Sea, the CO2 emissions will come? Could it be so difficult to understand that when the option is coal, it would be beneficial to use gas, even in Norway? It seems like it's hard to understand. Whether it is above or below my mind, others are judged, but the Workers' Party believes it will be an advantage in terms of both electricity prices and the environment if we process more of our natural resources here as well. As a background to this issue, energy ministers in Norway and the United Kingdom have signed an agreement on energy cooperation in the future. The agreement has led the Workers' Party, trade union movement and industry to react. These reactions are based on the fact that some important principles have been laid down in the agreement. One is that the current infrastructure should be optimised. The second is that there is a consensus that parts of our wet gas resources will be exported directly out of the country. Until now, Norway has been committed to facilitating petrochemical industrial development. That is why we have also developed such an industry in a few places in Norway. But when we processed the gas message, the government went in with SV to stop that development, stop taking more of the gas into use in Norway. They did so by voting against the Workers' Party's proposal on infrastructure development. We have asked the Minister of Energy about the export of wet gas was a prerequisite for the agreement to be concluded by the British side, without a reply. The industry in Norway is in a difficult situation. Only in the last year more than 17 000 industrial jobs have been lost. This cannot continue. To date, the government has implemented an industrial policy that is not a believer. The working party has work for everyone as job no. 1st@item: inlistbox It commits! We want to take advantage of our comparative advantage. Here gas is an important element. The welfare state was built through the exploitation of hydropower and natural resources in the last century. This century is about to become the century of gas. We will continue with a policy where further processing and industrial construction are high on the agenda. Against this background, we have also today made a proposal to develop strategies, look at opportunities and take advantage of our natural advantages. That requires political will and action, not passivity and paralysis.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e160	The issue we are dealing with today, of the state’s participation in the pre-interest phase related to the installation of a new gas transport system to the United Kingdom, is in many ways, at least in isolation, a ‘technicality’. At the same time, it is important to ensure the progress of the Worm Lange project. The state is here a partner with commercial interests, and it is important that this co-public ownership does not represent a bottleneck for the private actors by delaying the project. The right is therefore pleased that the majority of Storting will agree that Petoro AS, on behalf of its direct financial involvement, will be able to participate in necessary investments in pipelines before a relevant company is formally established. However, the work ahead of this case is of much greater and more general importance, because it is a breakthrough in cooperation and organisation between Norway and the United Kingdom in important border areas on the North Sea basin. There seems to be a common understanding that this part of the socket has lost much of its relative attractiveness. This is partly due to the fact that large areas of the world have opened up to a global petroleum industry. This means that our base must compete for the investment funds of companies in relation to many countries with some large deposits and other framework conditions. This applies not only to the non-residents on a Norwegian base, but also to our own national companies. On the one hand, the drop in attractiveness is also due to the fact that the North Sea and parts of the Norwegian Sea must be designated as a mature area with smaller occurrences, tail production and marginal fields. It is therefore a very commendable initiative taken by the State Council of Einar Steensnæs and his British colleague under the UN in August 2002, when they decided that the two countries should now establish common rules to facilitate petroleum cooperation between countries. This initiative deserves all praise from the Council of State. A declaration of principle signed on 2 October of this year has now been negotiated as the basis of a framework agreement. This initiative shows that the Steensnæs State Council is addressing the challenges of Norwegian pedestal in the North Sea and its industrial clusters, namely tougher competition and lower margins for profitability. The principal agreement and the future framework agreement will be important instruments to reduce investment costs. Furthermore, it will help to open up old fields to a longer life span and to improve the efficiency of the pipeline systems. These are important contributions that motivate and increase interest in continued good activity on the base. There has been a certain debate about Statoil's decision to take gas from Statfjord's late stage to the United Kingdom. As this is a matter of natural gas, concerns have been expressed from different quarters that it will be further processed in the United Kingdom and not in Norway. We're all concerned with the greatest possible value creation in this country, but that doesn't mean we can ignore the very basic principle that companies have to sell where they find it useful. This freedom is an important basis for the Norwegian base to remain attractive, and the Right is behind this. Fortunately, we have good examples of the fact that further processing of natural gas in Norway is also commercially interesting. This is evident with all clarity in the extension of the treatment plant on Kårstø and Borealis’ planned investments on Rafnes. In this special case of natural gas from Statfjord, we should perhaps first of all be glad that the logistics system against the United Kingdom at all makes it commercially possible for Statoil to take up this gas in the late phase of the field's exploitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e186	A new United Kingdom gas transport system is planned to be operational during 2007. This system is planned to be developed by an investor group consisting of Norwegian-socket rightholders in the context of the expansion of the Worm Lange field. According to the proposal, these companies will present a plan of plant and operation by the end of the year, and the Ministry intends to present the matter to the Stortinget in spring 2004. The issue today is whether Petoro, on behalf of the country's direct financial involvement, is to be able to participate in contractual relationships that will involve financial obligations in the new gas transport system. The Ministry proposes that the State should participate in installations of this new transport system to the United Kingdom and that Petoro should be able to participate in the necessary contractual relationships even during the period before the permit to plant and operation has been granted. However, the Petroleum Act is designed in such a way that such obligations cannot be entered into without being formally anchored in this Chamber. In my opinion, this formal anchoring should be straightforward. During the examination of this case, however, there have been some questions and claims that it was reasonable to look at. In view of this, the Committee has spent a little more time than was initially planned on this matter. But in my opinion it was both useful and necessary. During the treatment we once again experienced the government's defensive attitude to industrial use of domestic gas, but with the treatment of the so-called gas message in fresh memory this was not particularly surprising. There, as the Government is well-known, was reconciled with the gas allergies in the Socialist Left Party and was exposed to all developments in domestic gas use for a long time. Norway exports as known 99 pst. of our gas resources, and this gives us huge revenues. Today, we are well the country in Europe that has the largest gas resources, while at the same time being the country that is the worst to use this important resource. Here, too, we appear to be an industrial and environmental backward country. In my opinion, there are obvious advantages of using some more gas domestically, both industrially and otherwise. It is therefore essential to improve conditions for increased use and treatment of gas in Norway. However, it is the gas that is the most interesting in the industrial context and that has many possibilities also in the petrochemical context. It is therefore very important that, in the future, we ensure that Norwegian petrochemical industry also has ample access to this important resource.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e203	The President is unknown about the diagnosis of gas allergy and will therefore not take a position on whether it falls within or outside parliamentary vocabulary.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e206	I have nothing against the fact that a lot of good words and expressions are used from Storting's pulpit. But first let me start by clarifying some kind of misunderstanding. The government's party is talking about multiple entries for the option, perhaps thinking that they don't have the Labour Party and the Advance Party, but actually there's a unanimous committee in favour of what's being proposed. So it's clear. And so the cause could have been dead, and then one could have moved on, but now there are some representatives who want to campaign for their energy policy, and then we get to grips with it a little bit. One of these representatives is Klungland from the Workers' Party, my future government partners, who once again in the energy policy are in agreement with the Advance Party on the capitals they use to try to build heavily impure gas power plants, or to get a stake in building infrastructure for billions of dollars without the necessary costs at the front. In my vocabulary, it's called liability. That's what we get illustrated by the Progress Party and the Labour Party in this case as well. I can't free myself from asking these two parties why they haven't built both gas power plants and infrastructure all the time? The Labour Party has its seat in government year after year. Is it every time they're in the opposition, they're doing something? Then they're not very interesting as allies partners for SV, because we want action when we're in position, not screaming about it when we're in opposition. This is what the Labour Party appears today. It's not reasonable. The progress batch has also not built a gas power plant. Every November they exercise with the Government and enter into a budget settlement. Two years in a row there hasn't been a single word about gas power in that budget deal. On the contrary, they cut off gas power research. No, then it's strange that the Progress Party dares to stand here and complain that gas power plants are not being built, when they themselves have been able to propose to build it in two budgets. This doesn't hang on to anything else either. I could have said a lot about this with industrial development osb. relative to the Workers' Party, and I was tempted to say that when an oil company is built in Norway, it is no longer such that the contracts necessarily go to national industry. There are several reasons for that. One of the reasons is that Statoil is privatized. It's privatized and it's going to operate in a way that makes the most money possible. Who was at the head of privatization? It was the jam Worker Party. We have to give up the government in order to get competent owners," said the Labour Party. Yes, we see that competence working these days, and we also saw him in function when one instead of choosing Norwegian shipyard industry chose foreign yard industry. I therefore believe that if one is to have confidence in questions related to industrial workplaces, gas power and such things, then a start must be made by doing something on its own. It's a challenge for the Workers' Party: trade, not talk. SV has tried to be constructive in cooperation with the Government on issues related to international climate commitments, and in relation to the use of gas in Norway. We have had a constructive debate and our contribution is that we have to come back to different things, really well-done things, for example. relative to infrastructure and industrial development. Of course, we should follow up when these statements come. We are a little disappointed that the Government does not follow up the agreements properly with us, for example. in the case of green certificates, which we now see are the forests in time, and the distribution of water-borne heat, or green hydrogen, as a bulk of them were behind. It gives cause for concern. Finally, the attitude of the Government to the EEA Agreement also gives cause for concern. It may not be possible for one to be flattened for anything coming from the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e223	The President will remind you that partnership is a normal thing that takes place in the warehouse and not in the main hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e226	When you're so far out in the talking deck, very often most of the time is said. By the way, it's not always that the Center Party thinks that most things are said after everyone has said their own. But this time it's like this. I will nevertheless link some comments to St.prp. No 81 on the pre-projecting of pipelines from Worm Lange to England. This matter ended up as we all had threatened initially, namely that it was a quick, straightforward and technical matter. In other words, Petoro A/S on behalf of HOUSE may incur commitments of up to 600 million. kr. It is money that will be needed during the so-called pre-interest phase of the installation. Before the committee got that far, there was some uncertainty about the purchase, sale and use of the gas. Many eventualities were put on the table, without it leading to any change in reality. But I also believe that it is right to spend time clarifying any misunderstandings. Everyone deserves it. Like all the other parties, the Central Party believes that this is a good solution, and that it is right that the Storting should ask to give advance notice. It would not have been a good thing if the opposite had happened, i.e. that you had just started. When a person reads the Committee's comments, it is easy to see that it is grouped around the main lines. For example, it fights. insist that it is important that the natural gas components can be developed into industrial raw materials so that industrial opportunities are exploited in our country. This will result in value creation and large revenues, not least there will be a large number of jobs in the gas treatment industry. It is necessary to ensure that there are Richard gas components for the further development of the petrochemical industry. Domestic gas treatment is important for the long-term control and management of this natural resource. I would just like to stress the importance of this, because there are still many people who believe that the centre party is opposed to any use of gas. It's a myth. There are a lot of sensible ways to use gas domestically, but gas power plants without proper CO2 management are the opposite. The centre party was also involved in the gas deal with the Government and SV. It gives a wrong picture when Klungland expresses in this debate that it is only the Workers' Party and also the Progress Party which is the only ones that will facilitate the industrial use of gas in Norway. That's what we're talking about. There's a whole committee behind the decision, but in the case of some comments, we're dividing. I would like to draw the attention to some comments that only the SV and the Center Party agree on. The notes just refer to some of the uncertainties mentioned earlier regarding the use of the gas. I will be allowed to quote from a letter to LO of 15 October, for there writes the Council of State Steensnæs: ‘Norway as a party to the EEA Agreement will have very limited access to provide guidance on how to use NHG from Norwegian base or otherwise to lay down conditions relating to the expansion/deposit of NHG which has or might have the objective of benefiting Norway as such.’; This is a shame. But these comprehensive decisions have been made earlier. We well remember the introduction of the gas market directive, which became the drug through the system of 48 hours. That's what makes all the words about the use of gas, which we're really gathering are very busy using in Norway, fast can just be good intentions. But this case, which concerns the pre-projecting of a gas pipe, received a comprehensive treatment, so that matter is quite straightforward.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e244	The Ministry of Oil and Energy has in St.prp. No 81 for 2002-2003 requested the consent of the Storting to the participation of the State in its direct financial exposure, DEA, in necessary transactions, including: negotiation of agreements and contracts and, where appropriate, their conclusion, relating to the installation of new gas export pipelines from Nyhamna to the United Kingdom for the period until the formal establishment of partnerships for the installation of such pipelines. The export pipelines must be put into service no later than when the Worm Lange field is put into operation. This is planned to be in 2007. As a result of other market opportunities in the United Kingdom, investor companies wish to complete the southern pipeline in the summer of 2006. Formalities of interest for the export pipelines will only be established at the time the Ministry of Oil and Energy authorises the installation and operation of the two pipelines. I'm assuming this will happen during the first six months of 2004. At that time, it will normally also be formally decided whether to participate in partnerships as referred to by the EEAS. In the interest of time, it will be necessary to order steel for the two pipelines before Stortinget formally agrees that the Ministry of Oil and Energy will authorise the installation and operation of the pipelines. Commitment contracts, including the purchase of steel, give rise to interim payments before permitting the installation and operation of the pipelines. This is why Petoro’s proposition of participation before stakeholdership is established has been promoted for Stortingen now. The Energy and Environment Committee recommends that the Storting decide to agree that Petoro AS may, on behalf of the EEAS, impose obligations that will be necessary for installations of the gas transport system up to 600 million. kr. The consent will be valid for the period until the permit for the installation and operation of a new gas transport system to the United Kingdom is granted. It is quite common for the State to participate in the maturation of projects on Norwegian pedestal also during the period before a formal extension decision is taken. It is also common for the State to participate in investments to bring production to the market. I'd like to make it clear that St.prp. No 81 for 2002-2003 only concerns whether Petoro as the rightholder in the Worm Lange field should be able to participate in necessary investments in pipelines until a stakeholder for these is formally established. Thus, a decision by Stortinget today will not be a decision to extend the Worm Lange field or of installations of the two export pipelines. This will normally be promoted to Stortinget after plans for the expansion and operation of the Worm Lange field and plans for the installation and operation of the export pipelines have been submitted to the Ministry of Approval. I understand that these plans will be sent to the department at the beginning of December. The case will then be promoted for Stortinget in the usual way in the spring of 2004. Before the Committee gave its opinion, I was asked both by the Committee and by NOPEF for a decision in relation to this proposition, there would be some commitments in relation to any subsequent decision to land wet gas from the Statfjord field if the rightholders later decided that they wanted to further develop the field in a so-called late phase. In this connection, I assume that the rightholders themselves dispose of their own petroleum and that the authorities have no possibility of instruction as to the rightholders' disposal of their own petroleum. Gas reserves, such as for other resources, shall be made in line with the best commercial practice of the parties. For this reason, it was not relevant to me that deliveries of Norwegian gas to the United Kingdom should be part of the negotiations with the United Kingdom on a consensus on the principles of a framework treaty between Norway and the United Kingdom on cross-border projects. The agreement between my British colleague and me in October does not affect the right of rightholders to dispose of their own petroleum. As regards the use of gas, it is important to facilitate increased treatment and use of natural gas in Norway. The government has set up an offensive policy for this in the gas communication, to which the size of all key issues has joined. Gas is also used today in the competitive Norwegian industry. This concerns the ongoing expansion of Kårstø and Borealis’ proposed investments in Rafnes. The planned landing of gas from the Worm Lange field to Nyhamna is also an important contribution in this way. I am pleased that the UK today agrees that Petoro is involved in the necessary pre-interest transactions for the new UK export pipelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e271	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e274	It's probably only in the SV's world that a minority government can start building anything. For us who relate to majority democracy, it's different. In relation to the state council now says that the rightholders themselves are free to decide where to sell the gas, I have some questions. So when we dealt with the gas message, there was no willingness from the government parties to build infrastructure for Norway. Does the Council of State honestly believe that Norway will at all have future gas to the country if infrastructure is not built? Does the Council not understand the concern expressed by both industry and trade union movement in the course of this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e281	I am pleased that the Workers' Party has joined the rest of the Storting in the matter itself. Then the representative Rolf Terje Klungland is going to have a completely different debate, an interesting and important debate. I believe that it is necessary to develop infrastructure in order to be able to use more gas in Norway. It is in line with the gas message, to which the Size at all essential points also joined. I'm glad. When it comes to the question of wet gas, I'm holding on to what I've answered both the committee and the NOPEF and the LO. However, wet gas use is an important point and an important strategy for future industrial activities in Norway. We have a competence that we're going to exploit. In line with what I have also said to the Committee, I will come back to this in the oil communication. I also expect another committee in this house, namely the nutrition committee, to take an interest in this issue. It is an important industrial policy issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e288	As I said in my post, the government's lack of interest in the use of domestic gas also came up to the surface of this matter. We remember well the processing of the gas communication in March, where the government went to SV and stopped the development. The government could not participate in a large-scale domestic gas deployment effort with State co-responsibility for the infrastructure. The basis for such a decision was said to be too spiny, despite the fact that this and the previous government had two and a half years to plan this gas message – two and a half years. So I wonder if the Government has finally got a good enough decision-making basis and would it be possible to adopt a more offensive attitude and bet more when you come back to this spring, or would you like to go to SV this time to stop development? Will the Council of State now explain how far you have come in this process, and say when Stortinget gets the feedback Stortinget has asked for?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e295	I would once again like to thank the Stortinget for its broad support for the treatment of the gas communication, where the Stortinget also agreed with my assessment that, in the case of so large investments in the billions of infrastructure, it would be reasonable for the Stortinget to be presented with the necessary calculations and impact assessments as a basis for its decision. It is in line with good traditions in Norwegian administrative practice and in line with the practice that Stortinget has always followed by basing their decisions on sound, well-worked calculations. With regard to the progress of this, I can confirm that I am following the plan that the Storting itself has adopted, namely a presentation for the Size of the calculations by spring 2004. I'm going to follow that schedule.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e302	I just want to conclude that it is important that one has a serious procedure when it concerns the use of gas in Norway, as the Council of State was here. My reply is related to the management of the EEA Agreement by the Government. After all, it was the Labour Party at Gro Harlem Brundtland that got through the EEA Agreement, as well. reduces the power of this Chamber almost daily and introduces more market liberalism in Norway. Christian People's Party has always been an EEA party. One has accepted different directives coming from the EU, except for patents on life, which one took on this one. The centre party and SV would like a different connection to the EU than the EEA Agreement. What kind of thinking does the Council of State think about it when one sees that one in this case actually writes that one no longer has control of Norwegian industrial policy because of the EEA agreement? What do the Councils of State say about the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e309	I must first of all note that there seems to be no limit to what a person can relate to by an important and comprehensive theme in a matter in which the Storting now wishes to join in the purely technical. With regard to the EEA Agreement, I would just like to say briefly: it has been important for Norway in order for us to be able to export our goods and services to the important internal market where a significant part of our exports go. It is also in Norway’s interest that fair competition prevails. If some countries were to resort to other rules on how this trade and exchange of goods and services would happen, it would be a disadvantage for Norway. So we can not only take the advantage of protecting Norwegian goods and services in such an agreement, but we also have to take the consequences that mean that we have to let the companies decide whether they see it commercially interesting to enter into such agreements. This also applies to the wet gas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e316	The President will recall that there is a document for consideration in the Storting on the enlarged EEA Agreement, and that in the near future there will be ample opportunity to debate this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e319	I will return to the pre-project phase, and that is when a letter that the Council of State wrote to the Committee on 13 October. There he writes that if there is no such project – now I use my own words – then this money will be lost as far as I perceive it. It states that if, at a later stage, it appears that the State is not supposed to participate as an investor in the project, the costs arising from such obligations will not be refundable. Now we have to believe that the state is going in, and that this is going to work out in the best way. There's reason to believe that. But since this is a pre-project, there is also an opportunity that the project will never be implemented, even if it is hardly likely. My point is: if the State does not choose to go in, it must be possible to sell this for the project, i.e. the work done there, and not accept that the cost of the project is not reimbursed. What opportunities do the Councils see in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e326	The first option is, of course, that the state withdraws from the entire project and leaves the ownership to others. It can probably do without loss purely financially, but strategically it will be a solution that I, for my part, would strongly warn against. We have a strong national interest in being within this pipeline contract. If, on the other hand, it turns out that the entire project is stranded for other reasons, then all of these contracts have a cancellation clause. So that means that someone can limit the loss, but that means a certain fee that has to be paid if that happens. It is therefore not the whole contract sum that is at risk – it is also 900 million. kr per. In the UnitedKingdom, the number of drugrelated deaths among drug users in the EU increased in 2004–04, but, as I said, a certain fee is still in effect. I would also like to make it clear that the practice that is now followed has been established on a Norwegian base since we started the oil business.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e333	The agreement concluded between the Norwegian and British authorities provides for the optimal use of the infrastructure located there today. At the same time, the Council of State answers questions from the Committee that this has not been a pre-requisite of the Norwegian side. It has not been a prerequisite for the use of the infrastructure and it has not been a prerequisite for wet gas to go to England. Nevertheless, it is written in a ‘Statement’ of the agreement that the wet gas resources from Statfjord late phase go to England. Does the Council of State think that there has been a premise on the British side, and does the Council of State then agree that it may have been a bit naive on the Norwegian side to negotiate an agreement based on British assumptions?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e339	I want to use this opportunity to refute something Rolf Terje Klungland said in his first post, namely that in this agreement between British minister Stephen Timms and me there was an agreement that some of our wet gas resources should be exported to the United Kingdom. That's not right. It has not been a prerequisite, either by my side or by my British colleague, that one should have such an agreement between commercial companies. What kind of expectations the British had for this, is something quite different. It's clear that from the British side it would have been very interesting to get this to. It has probably also had an impact on the conclusion of the agreement and on the prices that the companies have achieved in the light of interest, but some formal commitments have not been mentioned at all. What has been included in the agreement is a mere reference to what has actually happened on a purely commercial basis, not linked to any conditions in relation to the pipeline agreement that Stortinget is dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e344	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e349	The Worm Lange field is dependent on being able to deliver gas to the continent or to the UK. It's important that Petoro is allowed to be involved in the planning phase. There's a little bit of a joke about Petoro, that you have the opportunity to influence already in the beginning. That's why I'm glad it's unanimous on this. When I take the floor anyway, it's because this debate was attempted to go a little further than what was really the idea. Let me just make it clear that the government parties – I'm not going to try to provoke so that there are three-minute posts all day long – want to use more gas domestically. However, we want to know where the gas is going to be consumed, and we want to know how much investment is needed. I remember there about Statoil's and Hydro's estimates of how much a pipe to Grenland would cost. There was a difference of up to NOK 3 billion. We want to know what capacity a pipe or LNG facility needs, and we want to know something more about what the industry itself thinks they can contribute, and how much they need. The Council of State has promised and has repeated today that he will come back with a broad overview of these matters in the spring of 2004. Then I hope that this room can agree on an important and great commitment to take more of our gas into use in Norway, within an acceptable framework, and where the state contributes. Then that discussion will come, and I hope we will have a broad agreement on the industrial bet that is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e358	The President will express his hope that the fear that the meeting would extend beyond the morning is unfounded.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e361	The size of the vessel ends today with work on planning the export pipeline to England, but the debate on the matter has mainly concerned the presence of Norwegian gas as part of the negotiations on a pipeline for dry gas to England. Minister of Oil and Energy Einar Steensnæs, in a letter to the Committee, has done well to ensure that deliveries of Norwegian rickgas have not been part of the negotiations with Britain. There is therefore no basis for the doubt as to the impact of the agreement on future deliveries of wet gas to Norwegian industry. It is the companies themselves that dispose of their oil and gas resources. Governments cannot instruct companies to sell gas to Norwegian industry. It follows naturally that deliveries of Norwegian gas to the United Kingdom were not part of the negotiations with the United Kingdom. The decision in Stortinget today provides a good opportunity for the future operation of the Worm Lange project, which is the largest extension on Norwegian pedestal in a long time. There is a broad majority in Stortinget that wants to use more of the gas we pump up, domestically. We see several examples that this is a field industry actively investing in. Today’s decision may provide for a subsidy to increase the domestic use of natural gas. There is therefore a convergence of interests between the Stortinget, industry and the relevant players in the business world.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e372	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3, and the President's expectations of the duration of the debate have been met. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-07.ana.ud384e380	The store is ready to vote in the cases on today's meeting map.
