ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e34	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e39	I suggest Heidi Grande Røys.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e44	Heidi Grande Røys has been proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Heidi Grande Røys is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e58	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each of the groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e67	I take up the suggestions that SV has on its own, and the proposal that SV has along with the Workers' Party in the configuration. With the exception of the Progress Party and the Centre Party, the Committee welcomes the fact that we now have an Environmental Information Act – «the law on the right to environmental information and participation in public decision-making processes of environmental importance», or more generally: the right to know, the right to participate. As a participant at the Aarhus conference at the end of the 1990s, it is a good idea today to follow this law. Otherwise, I can mention that during the Aarhus Conference, the bureaucrats in the Ministry of the Environment and myself were in the hotel room and saw the football match between Norway and Brazil, and Norway won – that is, while this conference was going on. The Aarhus Convention establishes that all people have the right to live in a clean environment and acknowledges that democratic decision-making processes are a means of sustainable development. By connecting environmental and human rights rights, the Aarhus Convention becomes something more than an environmental convention. While we used to regard environmental information as an instrument of environmental policy, the right to environmental information is a right for individuals. A joint committee believes that it is important that people are given greater opportunity to make personal knowledge-based choices, choices that lead to a better environment and the ability to influence societal development as environmental-conscious consumers with control of public authorities. A small discretion: We regret what is in the position, that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party and the Centre provide environmental movement tips for new forms of action by fear of action in relation to this environmental information legislation. I have to say that I'm surprised by the mistrust that a multiple in Stortinget refers to an environmental movement that just wants this promise. It is also surprising that I have seen that there are some in the Government that hang in the corridors of organisations that are not really so busy with the environment, and that almost every time they hear the word ‘environment’, they feel that they have to listen and go against it. We will later hear articles from representatives who have forgotten to take off the hat they had at the time. But I want to say that someone who doesn't understand that the environment is important for nutrition has a problem. We can, for example, look at how Norwegian pedestal has developed, and how good they have been when it concerns the environment there, and it is precisely because we have made demands on the environment. Sorry, but you must not forget it. So to some objections to the proposals. The composition of the complaint subject is unclear. The focus on the country that buys and premises for the development of my SV is very important. The Swedish Labour Party and the Labour Party believe that the complaint subject must be broadly composed, and that a member must have a background in problem settings related to public procurement. At the same time, the SV and the Labour Party also believe that when the complainant makes a decision, a few public statements – written reasons – must be made from the complaint subject. In particular, I would ask the Minister for the Environment to say something about this later in his article. Another problem is that the laws set a lead in relation to a criterion of substance, i.e. a discretionary qualification, i.e. not to send out on hearing things that someone doesn't think are so important. It's just what's meant by hearings, that one should find out whether things are important or not important. SV is happy that this environmental law – despite some weak pages – is now being attached. We are also happy that a group committee wants to evaluate the laws after two years. We expect that one of them will come back with the suggestions that SV will make today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e95	Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e98	The issue we are dealing with now has not been one of those who have received the most attention in the media – except for a right-hand game where it was criticized. It's unfair, because this is a pretty big and important environmental issue. Law on the right to environmental information and participation in public decision-making processes relevant to the environment means that Norway has put in place a law enabling the 1998 Aarhus Convention to be ratified. The law is also an operationalisation of the right to environmental information, which is confirmed by the Constitution § 110b. One of the main ideas behind the principle of the right to environmental information is that people need more opportunity to make personal, knowledge-based choices that enable them to contribute to a better environment like consumers and to engage in public decision-making processes. That is why this is a law that follows important principles of democracy, of transparency and of giving people better opportunity to take responsibility for social development. One of the objections to this law is that it will lead to increased bureaucracy and increased burdens, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. I think it's an excessive fear. Activities are already required by the law in force to have knowledge of their own environmental impact. The new thing is that most people will have the right to access this information. We in the Workers' Party also expect the Government, in cooperation with the trade organisations for small and medium-sized enterprises, to make the best possible way to enable them to fulfil the obligation to provide environmental information without imposing undue additional work on them. I am pleased that in the Committee there is a broad consensus on the amendment of the law. In fact, the government parties here in Stortinget are a little bit half-lounge to it all. It seems to me that through the special remarks they make a little reservation in relation to the arrangements of the Government. But they're in, and it's positive. So from the Labour Party, we support the Government's proposal, except in one area: the complaint subject. We want a slightly different composition of the complaint subject, that the state should be better represented. The reason is that the country has more roles to play in these issues, both as a purchaser and as a supplier of industrial development. We also want to legislate that the decisions in the complaint subject should be published on an ongoing basis, including. through Law data. Before I finish, there's one thing that I want to underline. It's that I hope this becomes more than a paper law. I also hope the Department sees it as desirable that this law should lead to more active environmental choices and participation in decision-making processes, both as consumers and as members of society. I therefore hope that the Government will follow this up through concrete actions. One concrete measure is to go through the experience we have with today's branding schemes, and see if it is an instrument that can be improved. I think there are a lot of people today who are a little uncertain about which products are really environmentally friendly, and who don't experience that today's brand schemes provide good enough and safe enough guidance. The proposition reads as follows: ‘If more active information obligations are to be developed, it would require an in-depth investigation of the overall use of instruments, including the national freedom of action without conflict with international trade law, and the relationship between national and international regulation more generally. At this stage, therefore, it is a step forward that these issues are matured for regulatory purposes.» I have a feeling that the department here makes the matter a little overly difficult. I think there's a lot we can do in Norway. I think this smells a little too much of if, if, so forth, in case. Therefore, the Workers' Party and the SV have submitted a note saying that there is a need for an improvement in the labelling system and ‘a more active raising of consumer awareness’. We are therefore asking for these investigations to be started. In addition, much can be done through Local Agenda 21, and the majority of the Committee points out that the Government is working on the National Agenda. I hope that this with both labelling schemes and Local Agenda 21 is a challenge that the Government is taking. If the Council of State Børge Brende takes this challenge into consideration today, we can also take a brief look at the lines. The representative, Mr H. Langeland, has already promoted the proposals made by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e127	Today, when Odelstingen deals with the proposal for a new law on environmental information, there are several reasons for this. Firstly, this is Norway's follow-up to the Aarhus Convention. It implies, as you know, that we are internationally obliged to incorporate the right to environmental information into Norwegian law. Secondly, Norway has actually established the right to environmental information. Environmental information has so far been affected by some scattered legal provisions, but not in a systematic, holistic way. More than 20 years after this constitutional provision came into force, it is therefore desirable that it be operationalised in the Norwegian legislation. It makes sense, therefore, that the Government is now formalizing this. This law provides the public and consumers with access to important environmental information. It concerns product information and information on private or public activities that may pose serious environmental challenges. Information on the environment and the ability to live in a way that helps to reduce environmental problems relate to fundamental values of great importance to individuals, to future generations and to society in general. In particular, information is important in relation to choices made by individuals and their families regarding local environmental conditions — such as air quality and noise, or emissions from activities in the neighbourhood — or products that are handled on a daily basis. Greater personal freedom and diversity in society in general reinforce the requirement that everyone must have the right to choose and the right to know. However, during the examination of the law, important business objections have been raised to some aspects of the bill. It has therefore been appropriate to make some clarifications. An area of concern is whether enterprises may be forced to publish business secrets relating to production methods and product composition. This concern was also addressed to the Right during the examination of the legislative proposal. Of course, business should not be forced to disclose business secrets that may be misused by competitors. In particular, I would like to stress that the proposal by the majority of the Committee to delete the second paragraph of Section 3 of the Act does not alter the intention that products covered by the Product Control Act should be dealt with by this Act and not by the Environmental Information Act. It is clear to the majority that issues directly related to the characteristics, effects, content, etc. of each product. shall be governed by the two proposed new clauses 9 and 10 of the Product Control Act, so that consideration of the right of companies to protect business secrets remains valid. We have also been concerned that the new law should not lead to an increase in the burden and burden on businesses, and in particular small businesses and small municipalities. I am therefore pleased that the Government has rejected the most far-reaching proposals from the Environment Information Committee on this. This applies, inter alia, to: the proposal for a municipal investigation obligation. We also believe that it is necessary to ensure that environmental protection management follows closely the effects that the law has on small and medium-sized enterprises, so that we do not increase it too much further. I would like to make it clear that the environmental information obligation, as defined in the law, limits itself to the public's right to access information already available to companies for other regulatory reasons. For this reason, the government parties have stated in the vote that if the obligations of the law prove to impose unreasonable and unintended burdens on them, the Minister for the Environment must come back with proposals on how this should be resolved. It is also important to pay particular attention to the misuse of the scheme, which may lead to unnecessary burden on the reporting agent. When the representative of Langeland suggests that there is someone who shows fear only the word ‘environment’ is mentioned, I must be allowed to repeat that I have probably worked far more effectively to improve the environment and with environmental information than anyone else in this room. With the clarifications we have in the comments and the assumptions we have made, the Right will recommend the adoption of the proposal for a new law on environmental information.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e153	The proposal from the Ministry proposes «law on the right to environmental information and participation in public decision-making processes relevant to the environment». In addition, amendments to the Publicity Act, the Product Control Act, the Planning and Building Act, the Enforcement Act and the Genetics Act are proposed. According to the Ministry, the proposed Environmental Information Act will strengthen and clarify the current environmental information law and help to operationalise – as it is called fine – the right to environmental information. Furthermore, the Ministry claims that the law will bring Norwegian law into line with new international obligations. In principle, the legislative proposal shall be an adaptation to the Aarhus Convention. This Convention concerns public obligations to provide environmental information, public participation in public decision-making processes relevant to the environment and access to justice in the environmental field. However, the government’s proposals go significantly beyond what is necessary under the Aarhus Convention. In the legislative proposal, the obligation to provide environmental information shall not only apply to public but also to all private activities. This strange follow-up to the Convention is distanced in the Progress Party from, among other things. having regard to the fact that neither the current Directive nor the proposal for a new EU Environment Information Directive obliges private undertakings to provide such information. This bill imposes yet another strange demand on Norwegian business. Of course, we don't want to be in this. This obligation to answer any question of an environmental nature would result in significant costs in large parts of Norwegian business and contribute to weakening the competitiveness of Norwegian business compared to competitors in countries that do not have equivalent requirements. Unfortunately, the government’s legislative proposals have not given particular attention to what these additional costs will result from increased burden on Norwegian business. In addition, I would like to stress that public requirements for environmental information must be combined with other important considerations, such as the right of companies to protect information on production methods and product composition and the transparency of competing companies. In our opinion, the legislative proposal goes far too far and far beyond what is necessary. We will therefore vote against Section 5, second paragraph, and the entire Chapter 4, Environmental Information about activities. In addition, we will vote against the proposal for a new Section 10 of the Product Control Act. I would like to raise with this the proposal of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification At the same time, I would like the vote to be put to the vote so as to give us the opportunity to vote subsidiaryly for the proposal of the Centre in respect of sections 5, 9 and 16. In addition, we support the proposal of the Centre Party regarding point (b) of the first paragraph of Section 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e172	The representative of Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e175	The Environmental Information Act adopted today will strengthen and clarify the current environmental information law and help ensure consumers' right to know the environmental impact of the goods they purchase on the external environment. Furthermore, citizens will be guaranteed the right to know the impact of public decision-making on the environment. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the law will bring Norwegian law into line with new international obligations. The Environmental Information Act will have the following main consequences: Administrative bodies at central, regional and municipal level are entrusted with specific responsibilities for having and making publicly available overview information on the state of the environment and environmental conditions within their respective responsibilities. The law strengthens the right of the public to obtain environmental information from public bodies through specific transparency and procedural rules that go beyond the disclosure law and by making the law applicable to more bodies than those considered to be administrative bodies under the Public Service Act. All those operating in the public and private sectors are now required to have knowledge of aspects of their own activities which may have a not insignificant impact on the environment, and the public is given the right to obtain environmental information directly from their activities. In this area, the Christian People's Party believes that in the private sector it is sufficient that a professional should be able to explain the impact of the enterprise on the external environment. We believe that this will improve the information provided, and it will simplify the work, especially for many small and medium-sized enterprises.New rights will be legislated in relation to environmental information on products in the Environmental Information Act and the Product Control Act.The new law provides rules on how to ensure public influence and participation in environmental decision-making processes. All these measures will lead to greater demands for the goods they purchase and decisions made by the public to be made by committed citizens and environmentally aware customers. Environmentally sound production is more and more a competitive advantage in a market with critical consumers. Furthermore, it is hoped that citizens can engage in public processes, such as: development matters. The Christian People's Party believes that the most important decisions on sustainable development are taken locally. It is therefore important that citizens are given a greater right to engage in these activities. The Environmental Information Act, adopted today, is an important contribution to raising the awareness of citizens in Norway regarding environmentally sound behaviour. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that the Storting joins this important step for the environment. Although some have suggested that the government parties have reserved themselves against this bill, I would like to stress that at least we, on the part of the Christian People's Party, appreciate the fact that this matter has now come to the table and is being clarified, and we are of course also pleased that the majority of people are once again joining the main leaders of the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e204	The central party of course agrees that the Aarhus Convention should be ratified and that the law should be adapted accordingly. In this context, however, it is necessary to point out that, with very limited exceptions, the legislative proposal imposes obligations to provide any information that anyone might find appropriate. Section 2 defines environmental information to include: «actual information and assessments on the environment and on factors that work or could affect the environment, including planned and implemented actions or activities in the environment, the characteristics or content of products, the conditions of operation of activities, and administrative decisions and measures, including individual decisions, agreements, legislation, plans, strategies and programmes, as well as related analyses, calculations and assumptions». This isn't petty. Overall, the provision involves a significant intervention in the ownership of own activities and property. The obligation to provide environmental information goes beyond mere factual information that the enterprise has. Compilations of data and assessments may also be required. For a good many individuals who are engaged in nutrition, it will be impossible to meet the requirements of the law. Thousands of small enterprises, both in primary industries and elsewhere, lack administrative capacity to meet the requirements of the law. The law also prohibits paying for the work of providing and publishing such information. It may be appropriate to recall that Norwegian business is generally positive to the transparency of environmental information in the business. The market view suggests that this makes sense. This makes the need for a detailed and comprehensive legal obligation even more unnecessary. The centre party could wish that the bill was limited only to the right to environmental information held by the public and not to include private enterprises. That's what the Aarhus Convention adds. It would also cover all the significant environmental information that may interest the public. Since it is not possible to obtain a majority for it, the Centre Party wants a more moderate change in order to reduce the burden. We want a lower limit, so that small businesses are not covered by the law. We believe it is appropriate to use an existing definition contained in the Accounting Act. It would exempt private individual enterprises with assets below 20 million. NOK and less than 20 employees. In contrast, public limited liability companies, state undertakings and financial associations will fall within the scope of the law. In addition to the Center Party, unfortunately, only the Progress Party sees such a restriction positively. As mentioned above, the Central Party therefore agrees that the Aarhus Convention should be ratified. However, we do not agree that Norwegian legislation should go much further in this area than is necessary to ratify the Convention, and beyond what we have understood that most EU countries are willing to apply. We could at least take this in two steps, if one could really prove that this is socially useful. It should be unnecessary to recall that large parts of business are under severe pressure, and that therefore one must be very careful to impose greater burdens on businesses than is necessary to meet important social needs satisfactorily. The lot of the centre cannot see that sufficient justification has been given in the proposition for the proposed additional loads that the law will impose. There is little explanation of the extra obligations of the legislative proposal for business, extra obligations that are therefore not imposed on competitors in other countries. There is no doubt that the legislative proposal strongly violates the stated intention to facilitate business activity in this country. Representatives from government parties have expressed concerns in the media about the increased burdens that the law can impose on industry. Care for small enterprises is specifically mentioned. It turned out well, but it doesn't help much when the bill is still voted through as the government has proposed. There is also no comfort that the care has been included in a few comments. Most people have learned that comments in committee settings often have a strangely short shelf life date. The centre party sees the danger of abuse of law enforcement, and hopes that the administration will pay particular attention to action activities where companies are asked for information repeatedly over a short period of time from the same stakeholders. So we'll see how this evolves. At least we are happy that the law has to be evaluated. It is good that an overall committee has been in favour of an evaluation when we have seen how the law works in practice and the complaint topic has been in operation for two years. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e231	Karin Galaaen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e235	The right to know about health and environmental damage is fundamental. The right to influence decisions affecting the environment is an important right, but requires correct and accessible information about the environment and how it is done. The right to participate in decision-making processes and matters is a complement to the representative democracy we have. The right to environmental information is enshrined in Norway, which has also been the subject of several representatives. This has been the case for more than ten years since the Stortinget adopted the environmental paragraph of the Basic Law, § 110b, in 1992. The elected representatives then put a bond on themselves and on future magnifications, governments and governing authorities. They adopted an obligation to establish legislation and conduct a practice that guarantees citizens the right to environmental information. The Ombudsman, who is also the Ombudsman of the Storting, has pointed out on a number of occasions that the Constitution § 110(b) has not been followed up in retrospect by an adequate piece of legislation. Therefore, those who say that we should not go beyond the Aarhus Convention in relation to the Environmental Information Act also say that we should not follow up in a good manner what is provided for in the Basic Law § 110b. The Civil Ombudsman has on a number of occasions pointed out that there is a divergence between the Constitutional requirements and the law that we have at our disposal. I'd like to think about how you're going to solve this, not least in terms of the central party posts here instead. We are not alone in strengthening the right to environmental information. The fight for the EU's new Directives on environmental information has been tough and has been going on for a long time, until recently when the directive finally went through. Since 1992, we have also been working on environmental information at international speed, and we were given the Aarhus Convention in 1998 with its three pillars. At the same time as the proposal for a separate law on environmental information, the Stortinget has been invited to consent to the ratification by Norway of the Aarhus Convention, which has already entered into force. Norway will then be among the first to ratify this Convention, which is an important contribution to the process of democratisation and modernisation in Europe. In my view, the proposal for a law presented by the Government is both well-thought-out and well-balanced. The proposal has been the subject of a wide consultation, many of which gave valuable advice on improvements and deficiencies that have affected the final product. It has been an inclusive process, in line with the spirit of the Aarhus Convention. But the government has also dared to go beyond what the Aarhus Convention requires of us as a minimum, cf. what I said related to the Constitution and the Civil Ombudsman's demands. One of the things I might be most fond of about this is that business has been such an active and constructive partner. An overall sample was behind the proposal that private information should also be provided directly to citizens when requested, knowing well that the business community is taking on new commitments with this. These are courageous and mature decisions that show that we have a modern and forward - looking business. At this point, we are at the forefront of Europe. But I have to stress that the law is not a law on active information obligations for business, nor a law on reporting to public authorities, as some try to present it. The central issue is that the individual citizen on request, for example: shall be able to know directly from the neighbouring company about the polluter. Such information will largely already be available to the enterprise and is mandatory through other legislation. Large parts of business are already open to the outside world about the environmental impact of their activities. Such transparency will largely also be an advantage for business itself. What the new law implies is to clarify the individual’s right to receive this information. Therefore, business organisations involved in the investigation of this NOU also agreed with the requirements promoted by the Environment Information Committee. The government has also believed that it is important that the law treats all industries the same. The Government has continued its proposal to be able to request information on environmental problems caused by products before coming to Norway. This will, for example: make it easier to request information on the use of rainforest trees in garden furniture and the like, cf. the debate we had on tropical timber earlier today in Stortinget. As far as labelling schemes are concerned, it is clear that they need to be seen in relation to our commitments through the WTO, but I will nevertheless take the initiative to further assess the need for further work in this area. Finally, it has also been important for me to conclude that, in the case of business secrets that are reported to product registers, it is necessary to ensure that they do not come out. I have clarified this in the law in a different way from the law enforcement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e254	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e257	As I said in my speech earlier, this bill goes far beyond what is necessary to adapt to the Aarhus Convention and the EU's environmental information legislation. This leads to considerable extra burdens for Norwegian industry and weakens the competitiveness of Norwegian companies. Will the Council of State give me an explanation as to why it would destroy Norwegian business in this way, when it is totally unnecessary? Why has the Council of State not also listened to its party trap, Leif Frode Onarheim, who, according to Today's Economy, also believes that the bill goes far too far?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e264	For example: to listen to business and also listen to the questions raised by the representative of Onarheim, we have adjusted the law to what the law committee came up with. Among other things, I have concluded that what is reported as business secrets, for example. the product register must be fully secure in order not to be released. It was a completely necessary clarification. I have also stated that the public should not have any obligation to investigate if there is someone who is addressing the public. This left the law selection up to, and I've said it's too resource-intensive. In view of the fact that this should be totally unnecessary, involve extra costs and be destructive to business, I'm almost, with all due respect, of the belief that the representative himself realizes that this might be taking a bit of a hard time. What's said is directly wrong. Business organisations have themselves been in the investigation committee recommending a law that actually goes beyond what the Government has presented to the Stortinget. It's a modified version I've presented. In addition, it is a key point that the Aarhus Convention does not require what we are doing now in relation to private enterprises, and what they are about to do in terms of information. But the representative Vaksdal, who usually has the greatest respect for the Constitution, was not involved in this problematization in relation to what the Constitution requires of us. The size has decided that the private sector also has an obligation to provide information in the field of the environment. The Civil Ombudsman has pointed out over several years that there is a lack of follow-up by the Government. Of course, I want to make sure that the government doesn't get into trouble with the Control and Constitutional Committee on this issue. We have followed up what the Civil Ombudsman has actually pointed out. It's an information obligation, but it's not an obligation to provide information other than that company already has, and it's also required to be included in relation to other parts of our law.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e273	As I said in my post, SV had some objections to the Environmental Information Act. Among other things, there were the thorough hearings of the Energy and Environment Committee in relation to the laws, objections from the Consumer Council. SV is always loud towards the Consumer Council, which we think has a very important function in Norwegian society. A few questions: the fact that the laws add up to a typical assessment of the essentiality criterion can quickly become something that makes the promises not work, simply by having different definitions of what is important and what is not significant. So my question to the Minister for Environmental Protection is whether he can illustrate to the Stortinget what is in the grip of the essentiality criterion, so that one understands that the essentiality criterion is not to weaken the law. So this is the case with the subject of complaints, the composition and how decisions there are to be followed up. SV would have preferred to see that there were sanctions against people who did not follow up the law. There are no multiples for that, but there is something that you can get back to in the next round. But it must be that when a decision is taken on the subject of complaints, it must be made public, so that it has a function to complain, and so that one sees that either complaint is signed or rejected in a proper way. Finally, I would like to challenge the Minister for the Environment when it comes to the composition of the complaint subject. There is a proposal from the SV and the Labour Party to deal with some who are involved in public procurement, for example: Green state. Is it natural that they sit in the subject of complaint?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e284	As regards the publication of the decisions of the complainant, there is no explicit statement on this in the legislative text. But I think it makes sense that the denominator's decisions become public. In it is also the whole point of the law, and that you have to have impact. That is why we have chosen not to attach penalties to this in this round, except that we are familiar with the decisions of the denominator. As regards the composition of the denominator, it shall consist of representatives of industry, environmental organisations, the media and the consumer. Of course, you can discuss whether even more people should be involved, but I think this is enough. You had to set the limit somewhere. At the same time, I agree with the representative that the public has an important responsibility vis-à-vis the Green State, that they are aware of their purchasing systems, but I think this is more important to take care of in a way other than by taking part in a recital that will actually make recommendations on environmental issues. I have also been concerned that this law should not be abused. I think that's essential. Abuse of the law will not be permitted. Although the representative believes that there is no reason to establish it today, I think it is important to feel that the law cannot be used in an obstruction context. Even though I'm not here and now to suggest that it's done, I think it's okay to establish it. Where undertakings are exposed to operational requirements for information which is unfortunately or otherwise manifestly unreasonable, the undertaking may reject the requirement under law. I also think it's okay to have it when you're looking at how to practice the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e293	It was at least a very positive signal from the Minister for the Environment when it came to publicising decisions. It is clear that with these signals the Minister for the Environment can move forward with this position. He knows that he will then have the support of the Workers' Party and SV in this. So the question of the essentiality criterion. The point of hearing is that one should find out whether things are significant or insignificant objections to a law. It is then necessary to avoid pre-emption. Then destroy one for promise. The hearing will tell you whether things are important or not. I don't understand why I should have to give you the impression that you're adding. I'd like to ask you once again that this be explained. Compared to the composition, the SV’s proposal – which the Minister for the Environment has clearly not read – is aimed at recruiting one of the business representatives for the benefit of the public sector representative responsible for purchasing, which thus has a very important role to play in relation to the state as an environmental driver. I assume that the Minister for the Environment agrees with SV that it must be the state. There is unfortunately a very long way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e302	I fully agree with the representative of Langeland that the state also has some broken-down land in terms of greening public procurement. That is why we now have close cooperation between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Labour and Administration on how the State should also step up. Among other things, I have been out and demanded that the public should also use return paper to a greater extent, not least it was illustrated by the matter we had when dealing with the financial problems that Hurum factories had. It is also the case that we need to impose some stricter requirements on the public sector in order to use only certified timber, such as: is from the rainforest. I find it a little difficult to see that it is necessary for public purchasers, who are going to tighten up in these areas, to be in a position to address environmental issues. It can easily be the goat that fits the oat sack if the country itself is to be represented in such a name. I think that the more independent actors that are now being invited actually mean a better composition of the denominator. As far as the substance criterion is concerned, I must say that it is important to stress that everyone has the right to participate in the decision-making processes that are relevant to the environment. It's laid down in the law. There is no requirement here that the case should have significant consequences for being a participant and making representations. I believe, however, that it is natural to make a more comprehensive contribution to proposals to be put to the hearing. Otherwise, Norwegian society could become even more bureaucratic. If one organisation requires a matter that is quite curative to be sent out at a long hearing, it may also delay. We heard the news today early that there were very great delays in housing construction, because someone comes up with an objection, or that there are huge costs. I believe it is essential to have a materiality criterion in relation to investigation, but not in relation to participation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e311	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e316	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I regret that he does not fully understand the point of this essential criterion that SV and the Labour Party want to remove. What I want to ask the Council of State about now is going on with representation in the complaint subject. The Council of State stated that a person involved in public procurement, for example: linked to the Green State, most likely would have a problem with stability. The one thing that makes sense to the right, I also think. But that means that as the Minister for the Environment thinks, that the denominator is going to be combined with three from the business world, so these are going to be defined as Havile. It makes little sense to me. Then I just have to ask for an explanation of what the Council of State means by what he said in the last line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e323	What I thought about the state being represented was that one had to avoid a situation that appears to fit the oat sack. As is now the case, different actors with an interest in being covered by the law are involved. I believe that the task of the state is first and foremost to give a good law, and also to follow the law. But this is no big deal. I have had a relaxed relationship with whether the state should also be represented here, but I believe that it is crucial for the legitimacy of the law that business is also well represented. Business has been positive to the law. The NHO recommended, after all, the draft of the law as it was in its original form. Their participation in this matter is important. It's good that we play along with business, and I think it would give a bad signal to throw them out when they've been so constructive throughout the process. Then I have also come to understand that the representative Langeland believes that I do not understand the Workers' Party and the SV's argument about the materiality criterion and the problems that may arise in that context. I think what the representative Langeland tried to say was that we do not agree with the assessments relating to whether there should be such a materiality criterion. I am not saying that it is easy to set such a materiality criterion, but I believe that it would be wrong for anyone to demand in any case that it should go to a comprehensive hearing, without looking at the nature of the matter, and whether it is large enough to do so. But, as I also stressed, it is of primary importance in this context that public authorities should ensure that the public should be given the opportunity to make representations and participate in any decision-making process relevant to the environment. There is no materiality criterion here. But in relation to demanding an investigation process, it does. This is also a natural follow-up to the work being done by the Government in the context of future changes in the Law on Planning and Building. Today, you can raise objections and require further investigations on several points, when you have the plan, when you have the construction case, and when you have the construction plan. This means that there can be a very long time in such a process. It also creates a lack of respect for the law we have. I believe that this law should work, one cannot demand difficult investigations in matters that are not significant. Then we'd better go in and work a little bit more on how this materiality criterion is going to work in practice, but I don't think it's going to be that difficult. We also have discretionary provisions in our legislation from now on, and here we will develop a practice over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e331	It is not to withdraw the debate, I just want to make it clear that the Workers' Party is not involved in the proposal on the substance criterion. It may have been possible to have only deleted it in the minutes afterwards, but I think it might have been good to have said so, since both the Swedish Government and the Swedish Government have produced it this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e336	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 397]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e352	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e361	The representative, Inger Enger, has been the case rapporteur on the proposal to amend the waste definitions of the pollution law and to give businesses greater freedom to decide for themselves how to handle their waste. The proposal to amend the waste definitions of the pollution law has two main objectives. Firstly, it is desirable to give business greater freedom of action and responsibility to choose waste management within the current environmental policy framework conditions, so that they are encouraged to find cost-effective solutions. Secondly, the change is intended to clarify the boundary between the different types of waste. Since Inger Enger is not a member of the Odelstinget, I will present the views of the Centre Party on behalf of her. Final waste treatment at landfill and incineration leads to emissions to soil, air and water and is the source of both local and global environmental problems. It is therefore important to implement measures to reduce the amount of waste destined for final treatment, as set out below. the national target for the final treatment of waste by 2010 is about 25 pst. of the generated amount of waste. The proposal for a legislative amendment involves new concepts and a new demarcation between the types of waste by replacing the terms ‘consumption and production waste’ with ‘household and food waste’. Household waste will be all household waste, while commercial waste will be all waste generated in which operations are carried out. The hearing bodies have been consistently in favour of the new borderline approach. However, there is an indication of the risk of increased littering, the need for increased control of the holder of food waste, the risk of impaired preparedness for renovation, the impact of the waste charge, the relationship with health legislation and the need for transitional arrangements. These conditions must be taken into account when implementing the change. In order to try out how the changes work, we have put in a proposal to evaluate the change in the law after two years. This proposal has a hope of obtaining a majority here today. The centre batch will stress that the amendments to the pollution law need to be implemented in such a way as to achieve the objectives of increased source sorting and recycling. Moreover, these changes must not lead to new environmental problems, and there must be a social benefit. The examination of the proposal has revealed that there is a real risk that the proposed change to the waste definitions could lead to increased household costs through increased waste charges. This ratio was also noted during the treatment of St.melding by the Storting. No 24 for 2000-2001. The Ministry proposes a transitional arrangement of two years to allow municipalities to adapt their activities to the new situation in the waste field, so that there will be no disproportionate operating and capital costs to be covered by household waste charges. The centre party considers that there is particular reason to be concerned with the situation in the smallest municipalities and where there is a spread of settlement. There will be a cost-effective and low socio-economic situation in which several renovators operate side by side. In particular, if the business benefits are not exploited, households in such areas are at risk of increased fees for waste. The design of regulations requires the establishment of a flexible system for the creation of adapted local or regional solutions. Many municipalities have invested significantly in the waste management area. Many municipalities are also responsible for old landfills. This brings high determined costs. We are concerned that these costs in some municipalities may have to be covered by a significant reduction in the amount of waste. It would be right for business to continue to be involved in and pay for these costs, as well as for a contingency plan in the area of waste. There is a risk of increased transport by private operators choosing to transport waste over greater distances in order to obtain more reasonable final treatment. Increased transport is not desirable for reasons of local environment, road safety and climate change emissions. Care must be taken to ensure that the benefits of increased recycling of waste are not consumed by increased transport. It is necessary to provide solutions that are not only for the benefit of business but are also socially and environmentally optimal. The Central Party considers that the proposed transitional regime of two years before the entry into force of the law must apply from the date of adoption of the amendment. Furthermore, provision must be made for municipalities to require waste owners to deliver wet organic waste for special reception if local conditions so require. With this, I take up the proposal of the Central Party in the vote and proposal No. 4, which is distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e394	The representative has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e397	This is a case that has been sent to Stortinget two times earlier. The last time it was discussed was in the context of the Government Environmental Protection Policy and the State of the State in Spring 2001. The size then gave its support to the main elements of the proposal, but at the same time gave rise to quite strong assumptions. This change will lead to increased costs for municipalities for control and preparedness. This is why the majority said, among other things: clearly from the fact that industry has to contribute financially to this control and preparedness responsibility, so that most people do not have to pay through increased renovation fees. The majority made clear that renovation fees should not increase beyond what is normal price increases. The working party and SV believe that these leaders have unfortunately not been properly followed up by the Government. We are concerned, on the basis of the proposal and the consultation here in Stortinget, that the charges to ordinary people will increase and that the proposal as it stands may result in increased costs for industry in the districts as well. We also believe that it is inappropriate to impose increased competitive pressure on municipalities if they do not want to. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for doing a thorough job, and the comments of the Central Party must be seen as the rapporteur's attempt to draw the Government's proposals in a direction that is better for ordinary people and better for the business community in the districts. But the government has got a majority with the Progress Party, and I'm probably a little less optimistic than the representative Inger Enger in relation to whether we could get so much done here. On this basis, the Workers' Party and SV take up the proposal that the case be returned to the Government for further investigation. We believe that more can be done to avoid this becoming a system of ordinary people and business, especially in the districts, losing weight. However, as there is reason to believe that our proposal will be defeated, the Labour Party and SV will already notify that we will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party and the Centre Party, to carry out an evaluation after a period of two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e410	Synnove Konglevoll has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e413	The proposal to change today’s concepts of ‘consumption and production waste’ to ‘food and household waste’ means a clear simplification. Nutrient waste will be all kinds of industrial waste, while household waste will be all kinds of household waste. In this way, we will avoid borderline cases and conceptual confusion in relation to how to handle the waste and by whom. This has proved to be of practical importance, as the existing concepts have been practiced differently in the municipalities of the country and have been partly a source of conflict between waste owners, private renovators and municipalities. Following the proposed legislative change, managing household waste will be the responsibility of municipalities, while management of industrial waste will not be a municipal task. This means that businesses themselves have the freedom to choose how to handle their own waste. The right believes that this will stimulate awareness of own waste management with the potential for increased environmental awareness, efficiency and cost reduction. This will include, inter alia: make it more interesting to draw up own business-internal waste plans, not least to reduce the amount of waste and to sort waste for recovery. On the other hand, there will be opportunities for private operators in the renovation market to compete more strongly with established public operators. Strengthening competition in this market by reducing the municipal waste monopoly will in itself contribute to better, more efficient and flexible waste management. Critics of the proposed amendment fear that public waste management companies will lose market shares and shift costs to households. With all due respect for this view, I would nevertheless say that it is very defensive. Public refurbishment companies already have an established infrastructure and a market grip which means that they should have a competitive advantage over the new situation that would result from the amendment of the law. This means that the change needs to be seen more as an opportunity for increased revenues than as a threat of loss of market share. In its comments, the right has underlined the importance of not increasing the fees for households as a result of changes in the pollution law in addition to what can be considered as a normal price increase. It should also be noted that the law is proposed to enter into force on 1 July 2004, so that public refurbishment companies have time to prepare for the new competitive situation. Some fear that the amendment to the law will lead to increased waste disposal and other illegal waste disposal. Municipalities should therefore be given the opportunity to monitor the proper management of their waste by business and that the costs thereof are fully borne by the waste owner. On the right, the proposed legislative change is seen as part of simplifying, stimulating freedom of choice and competition and increasing the focus on waste management within an environmentally conscious profile. I would therefore like to recommend the proposed amendment to the law of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e439	The Ministry of the Environment proposes to amend the waste definitions of the Pollution Act and its related provisions. The concept of ‘waste from consumption and production’ is proposed to be amended to ‘waste from industry and households’. As a result, local authorities' responsibility in the waste field will be reduced, while public and private businesses will be given increased freedom of action in respect of their own waste. The Ministry’s proposal to amend the waste definitions of the law has the primary objective of giving business greater responsibility and freedom of action to choose waste management within the current environmental policy framework. This increased freedom of action will generally stimulate an increased awareness of waste reduction in business. However, it is important to stress that reduced quantities of waste entering the current municipal waste monopoly will not necessarily reduce the activity of municipal collection schemes and treatment facilities. What will be crucial is whether the municipalities are able to operate in a competitive way in a market. In my opinion, municipalities already have a competitive advantage as they have already established a significant infrastructure for the collection and treatment of waste. However, I was both amazed and disappointed by the defensive attitude of the municipalities and cleaning plants in the committee hearing. It seemed as if they had lost the competition before it had really started. It is therefore important to focus on household waste charges and that municipalities do not increase them beyond what can be considered as normal price increases. The costs cannot be freely passed on to the municipality’s citizens as a result of losing their defensive position. The Progress Party supports the Government's bill and believes that it is a step in the right direction to open up greater competition in this area. However, we will discuss an evaluation of the law after two years to address any weaknesses that can then be corrected. With this I take up proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e450	Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e453	Let me start by apologizing to the Labour Party that I drew them into a good position as SV stood for in the previous case. It was really not the intention. It would be nice to say that the cooperation has been so good that I thought we were a few about everything! So I'm sorry about that. So to this thing. I believe that the representative from the Progress Party in his post was involved in something significant that they are already trying to intercept. It's like this -- at least there's a claim from SV -- that we're at risk here that the household gets a bigger bill. For the privatisation that is taking place here, a cost item that will eventually lead to the Norwegian people being charged more taxes and taxes, to use the terminology with which the Progress Party is best known. The Progress Party is now probably involved in a proposal that increases household expenses for the treatment of garbage. They can't free themselves from that. This is exactly why they should join the Labour Party and SV in order to get this out. Now they take a chance. This chance can therefore lead to a higher fee for the household – with the Progress Party’s votes. It must be clear when doing so. It's quite ideological, of course, in the Right Party and the Advance Party's spirit to do it today, simply to press ahead with a privatisation of public activity. It's quite ideological. Understandably. But you don't have to try to jump from the consequences. So one should go into this in more detail. SV is, on its side, busy with the district angles on this. We think that this can work in some larger cities, that it's relatively easy to do it here in Oslo, but if a journey to Ryfylke or other places where there's reasonable shrieks with people, this won't work. A business doesn't get to run for miles to get some cardboard boxes deep in the water where there's already a community service. So this system is too bad thought. That's why the municipalities say we don't really want this. That's why the Reinhaltsverket says that we're really critical of this. And so SV and the Labour Party say that this has to be done more closely, so one has to go more into it, so one knows what one does. SV and the Labour Party note that a large majority of people pass a law that, in our opinion, it does not have full control over the consequences of. I'm sorry, but we're going to hunt me down on what happens when the housekeeper, for example. are subject to higher charges because of the need to re-prioritise business once more.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e469	The President is not sure if all the details that Langeland used are parliamentary, and asked Langeland to note it for the next post.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e472	The matter that we have to deal with today is an important step towards a more sensible treatment of waste. The definitions of the pollution law and its related provisions are being amended and the current concepts of ‘consumption and production waste’ are proposed to be amended to ‘food and household waste’. The changes in the pollution law also mean that local authorities' responsibility in the waste field will be somewhat reduced, while at the same time increasing the freedom of action of public and private businesses with regard to the management of their own waste. This does not mean, however, that the control of waste is getting worse. In order to ensure continued control of the part of the waste that will be exempt from compulsory municipal renovation following the amendment of the law, the majority of the majority of the municipalities will delegate to the municipalities the power to supervise holders of commercial waste under Section 48 of the Pollution Act. In this way, the potential risk of increased enrolment resulting from the amendment of the law will be prevented. The proposed change shall also clarify the boundary between the different types of waste. The current demarcation of waste consumption and production is in many cases unclear and concepts are practiced differently in the municipalities of the country. Given the importance of the limit to which waste is subject to compulsory municipal renovation or can be handled by private renovators without the consent of the municipality, this creates little predictability for waste owners. Furthermore, there will be different framework conditions in different parts of the country and the potential for conflicts between waste owners, private renovators and municipalities will be hazards that we can now manage away. The majority of the Committee points out that legislative changes give business greater freedom to choose between different waste management solutions for its own waste, with the possibilities it offers for improving efficiency and reducing costs. The Christian People's Party believes that such a change will in general stimulate increased business awareness of waste reduction. We also believe that this will make it more interesting to draw up company-wide waste plans, including: to reduce the quantities of waste and to sort waste for recovery. Sharpened requirements for waste treatment and the introduction of a final waste treatment levy have strengthened the needs of business in order to be able to choose sorting, collection and treatment solutions. The legislative changes will facilitate such developments and thus contribute to increased source sorting and recycling by increasing the cost to business of waste disposal and reflecting more closely the costs associated with the treatment of the waste they deliver. From the opposition it has been argued that this amendment to the law will lead to increased competition for municipal renovation sites. The Christian People's Party is not very concerned about this. The majority, of which the Christian People's Party is part, will point out that reduced amounts of waste entering today's municipal waste monopoly will not necessarily reduce the activity of municipal collection schemes and treatment facilities. It is crucial that municipalities can operate in a competitive manner in a free market. In this context, the majority would stress that municipalities have already established a significant waste collection and treatment infrastructure and should therefore have good assumptions in order to be competitive. It is important for the Christian People's Party to point out the importance of private renovators facing the same rules and framework conditions with regard to waste management requirements. It is the quality of the renovators that is important, not what name it says on the car that runs around and collects the waste. The changes adopted today by the Storing will be right to focus more on proper waste treatment in business and in households. Businesses act in an environmentally sound way is a competitive advantage in a market with more and more critical customers. Waste treatment is included in this picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e491	I am pleased that the proposal to amend the waste definitions in the pollution law is now finally adopted. The proposal has been in place for several years, and it is positive that it is now in place. Today’s concepts, consumption waste and production waste are proposed to be changed to household waste and food waste, which has also been discussed by several representatives. This has a number of positive effects: Today’s interpretation of the boundary between definitions will be reduced.The changes involve increased freedom for businesses to decide for themselves how to dispose of their waste. This will provide companies with financial incentives to take action to reduce waste volumes and to sort waste for recovery.Parts of the municipal monopoly on the receipt of waste will be put out of competition. At the same time, municipalities are allowed to participate in the competition to receive and treat this waste. Municipalities can calculate the profit on receipt of such waste, as opposed to the current situation. The proposal must be seen in the context of other instruments in the waste field that move in the same direction, towards more source sorting and recovery and less end-treatment of waste. Both the final treatment levy, stricter rules for landfilling and incineration and the return arrangements for different waste fractions, together with this amendment, will help us to achieve the target of a maximum of 25 pst. the waste is destined for final treatment by 2010. This bill was presented to Stortinget for the first time in a big report on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state at the end of the 1990s, and it was sent to the hearing. The Storting then asked for a wider review of this, and the government of Stoltenberg came back to Stortinget in the next announcement of the state of the state of the state of the state with a thorough review and a very positive mention of this proposal. It was recommended. On the basis of the fact that the Storting joined this, I continued to work on it, and now I present this proposition. I think it is positive that a majority in the committee supports the proposal, but I am a little surprised that, for example. The Workers' Party, which has been in favour of this in the past, does not now wish to adopt the proposal, but will send it back to the Government for further investigation. So there's no limit to how many investigations are needed in Norwegian society. In the previous case we had to deal with, the law was to be evaluated after two years. I see that you're also in here if this is first adopted. – So it’s enough to catch up with new investigations too! With regard to the claims that have been made, I think it is important to find out that, after the amendment, business will be responsible for handling its own waste. The abolition of the municipal monopoly and the opening of competition with regard to the receipt of waste could initially lead to lower costs for business. These include: That is why we are proposing this. And to those who are concerned with a more active industrial policy and policy: why not meet a demand from industry over several years that they can also use their waste? It's actually so that waste has a value. When the waste leaves an enterprise, you could say it's a shipment of value in the waste system we have today, because it can be recycled, it can be recovered, and it can be used. The proposals now made by the Government, which are also sought by industry itself, will stimulate increased awareness of waste issues in business. It will be more interesting for businesses to draw up their own internal waste plans, including: to reduce the amount of waste and increase the level of sorting and recovery. This is very good for the environment. Law changes are likely to contribute to increased source sorting and recycling because the cost to business of waste management is expected to reflect more closely the costs associated with the treatment of the waste delivered. Companies with almost unsorted waste, of which there is too much today, are likely to achieve a lower offer from private reinventors than if the waste was sorted, because the reindeer have to deal with the costs of treating the waste, for example: the final treatment charge. It is also true that I am, of course, concerned with proper behaviour in relation to littering, and to ensure that food waste is treated properly, municipalities will be given delegated powers to oversee holders of food waste and to charge the cost of this cover. Municipalities will also be empowered to charge a fee to cover the costs of such controls. It is good for the Norwegian community that we have increased recycling, and it is good for the Norwegian community that business can save money on this. When business can do so, of course, it is also good for the individual consumer, who can pay nothing more in the cleaning charge than the municipality actually has as the cost of collecting the garbage.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e522	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e525	In contrast to the previous case we discussed, the Progress Party supports this bill from the Government. We are very positive about the introduction of greater competition in this area. In view of the defensive attitude that emerged during the hearing, both from the municipalities and from the Norwegian Renholdsverk Association, there has been a fear that municipalities will lose this competition and, as a result, increase the fee to households to compensate for the loss of income. Will the Council of State assure the Government that the government will strengthen control, so that the municipalities do not turn costs over to the inhabitants of the municipality and that the fees will not be increased beyond normal price increases?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e534	First, I would like to tell the representative, Mr Vaksdal, that I think it is good that the government parties and the Progress Party stand together in this matter. It is an important matter for, among other things, to increase the recovery of waste from business in Norway, while at the same time providing savings opportunities. I also share Mr. Waksdal's view that some people have acted very defensively here. If it is the case that the municipal renovation works are as good as they say – and there is no reason to believe anything else – why do they think they will lose in the competition? There must be open bidding rounds, and the municipal renovation works have actually been in the industry for many years and have a great advantage over private operators to establish themselves on the market. I think they actually have good opportunities to win the tenders. I think we should have an offensive attitude to this. Of course, for municipal waste recipients who receive a reduction in the amount of waste resulting from the amendment of the law, an adjustment of the capacity of the operating equipment may be necessary in a transitional phase. Reduced activity will lead to reduced revenue but also to reduced expenditure. Clearly, municipalities do not have the right to charge more than the cost of treating household waste. It is therefore not possible to increase the fees for household waste in order to offer lower prices for food waste. I will instruct the statesmen to follow very closely. An increase in the cost of refurbishment due to the possible loss of a tender should not, of course, be applied to the users. Instead, the municipality should consider submitting a tender for this as well. Many municipalities have done so, with very good experience. So I want to add that we have to remember that some municipalities have actually increased recycling and recycling. It costs a little more to have more compost bins, but it's good for the environment, so we have to see it a little independent of the competitive outsourcing and the general price development.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e543	Let me start by repeating to the Council of State that some people want to settle matters more, that I don't think that the party as the Council of State, called Burne, is something that's not relevant in that context. I am aware that the Council of State is dealing with different issues, such as: the allowance gypsy, which has gone out a lot. It was supposed to come last year. The Cultural Memory Fund should have been in place – it is a lot of things that the Council of State itself has to deal with. So I think he's going to be careful to chat with others about his need to get facts on the table before making the necessary decisions. So to the matter itself. I would like to remind the Council of State that the most important thing in waste policy is to minimise waste, i.e. to prevent waste from occurring. That's the most important point. It may seem that it is the proposal that is being put forward today to resolve the problem. But the solution is to minimize the production of waste. So I would like to challenge the Council of State on this with private households and any price increases. Is it so to understand that it is the business community that is to finance the supervisory and supervisory body that is needed in the follow-up to this law? Or is it that households will actually have to cover that bill? I think it's important that you're precise, at least that you show that you have an overview of how this will look. Finally, if one thinks that one in the district is going to get two different actors to collect waste, food waste and ordinary household waste, who are going to run in two different cars and do so, is it certain that this proposal, which SV considers primarily as a privatisation, will benefit the environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e554	First briefly to this question of investigations. I noticed that the representative Langeland thought that the government should have presented a ostrich proposal in relation to the quota rules early last autumn. I would like to remind you that the Storting adopted this message, the follow-up to the message in relation to the climate, last year. It was then assumed that during the spring session we would make an odelsting proposition. There I believe that the government actually has some time left. But it is true that this is also a difficult issue, given that the EU directive here has taken a little more time. It's not an investigation it requires, it's a anticipation and clarification of the positions. I can also assure the representative of Langeland that the Cultural Memory Fund was set up this year, and the payments provided for by the Storting are also paid in the current year. With regard to this new waste regime that will lead to increased recycling, I will once again assure the representative of Langeland that, in order to ensure that food waste is treated properly, municipalities will have delegated power to oversee holders of food waste and to charge the cost of this cover. In addition, the county officials must be very careful to ensure that there is no cross-subsidisation. When it comes to entering and competing with private operators to receive tenders from business, they are not allowed to do so at the expense of household waste. We'll take care of that. We also need to ensure that the prices related to household waste and the renovation fee are not reversed due to the loss of tenders and the unwillingness to reduce and convert their own renovation activities. There should be no sleeping cushion. We'll take care of that, too. Socio-economic and environmental this is totally overdue and was first sent to the hearing in 1998. There was a big message from the Bondevik I government, and there was a big message from the Stoltenberg government, and now there is an odelstingsproposition. Sending it to the hearing again seems to me quite tame.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e563	As I said in my main post, the Center Party has no strong principleal counter-representations against this proposal. I actually come from a region where we have already adapted to the new regime. But, as I also said in my post, we are concerned about the effects of the bill in smaller municipalities with scattered settlements and few nutritionists. I am thinking about what the representative Langeland also had in mind, the possibility of increased transport, where two cars run part of the same route at the same time, and where, because of the price, one chooses landfill far away. Does the Council of State share this concern, and does he see the danger that the social and environmental solutions do not always have to be optimal? I also have a question that – yes, now it got away. I'll be careful with the one.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e574	The representative addresses an important question. In the case of small municipalities and outsourcing and the provision of good and efficient municipal services to local residents, many are very good. If you look at e.g. snow ploughing, it is often the small municipalities that are the best candidates for this. Many people have it as an important reintroduction. We also see this in the case of small construction-related prices. Many entrepreneurs based on a small municipality, where they might have 25 pst. of their business, using the competence to go out and win assignments also in larger cities and cities. I'm not very concerned about the small and medium-sized municipalities, because they're often good at getting the most out of these funds. It is, in fact, more difficult in large and bureaucratic organisations, where it is a more difficult and less transparent system. In the case of any increased transport related to increased competitive outsourcing, I have noticed the recording. What we've been looking at is what the sum of the effects of this proposal will be. The sum is that there will be an increase in recycling. It will be more reasonable for business to have their waste handled. I actually thought that the Storting was very concerned that we should have a more active industrial policy, now that it's really a hard international competition situation. If you can reduce the cost point by point, we feel that we have provided from the Ministry of the Environment one important element to bring down the costs that Norwegian business is facing in this area, the costs that you may not have in other countries, where you have been a little less dogmatic, and where the municipality association has not been so decisive in determining this. For me, the most important thing is that we increase recycling and that we get competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e581	In the line change now, there has been a focus on household fees. To this I can say that even if the Council of State gave a long response to the representative, Mr. Waksdal, he could not promise that the fees to ordinary people would not increase more than the price increase. So he couldn't promise. Another point is what was raised in the last line, taking into account the businesses in the districts. It is likely that competitive outsourcing in major cities could lead to a reduction in business spending. However, in the case of districts, it is unlikely that there will be significant competition for the waste from the local cooperative or hotel. On the contrary, however, the Council of State and others here in the Chamber have pointed out that the municipalities can then have a profit on the waste that cannot be earned today. I am therefore concerned that this is a proposal that will affect industry in the districts in particular. It's one of the things that hasn't been closely followed up in the proposition that the Government has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e589	I think it is positive that the Workers' Party's representative is concerned that we should reduce the fees associated with waste. But why is the Labour Party not concerned that the business community, which is now in a state of fierce competition, will have the opportunity to reduce its fees and costs associated with the management of waste when jobs are put under pressure? We have a very high wage growth in Norway in relation to our competitors. We have a high interest rate. Why should business not then take steps to bring down the indirect costs here? Then you push the private households in front of you and say that I cannot guarantee that they will not receive increased renovation fees in the years to come. What I'm saying is that by increasing the competitive take-up of household waste as well, I think the possibility of getting prices down is increasing. If there are more people who can offer competing offers, it will push prices down. We have good and broad experience in relation to that. I have not seen that the Workers' Party has just been a driver in that context. The reason why no guarantee can be issued that no local authorities will be able to charge higher renovation fees, also the representative of Konglevoll knows very well. In fact, some municipalities decide that although they do not have recycling of waste and recycling today, they would wish it. It is clear that taking environmental considerations, and for example: start with recycling, will have some costs. Those who live in the municipality must be willing to pay for it. However, costs shall be as low as possible. It shall be tested on the market who can deliver it in the most reasonable way possible. I assume that the Workers' Party is also in the future dependent on municipalities that are not involved in recycling, and that it is also acceptable for the Workers' Party that costs will have to be increased slightly over a shorter period, in order to get a not insignificant environmental benefit back.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e598	With a relatively short training period, it is easy to lose the thread from this pulpit. Governments were involved in this with the control of cross-financing. It's a demanding task, and it's an important task. It may be nice to remember that it can also lead to increased bureaucracy, but it may be an important bureaucracy. I would also like to thank the Council of State for its praise of small municipalities, I actually share that view. So to the second question. I'd like to ask the Council of State to elaborate on who's going to pay to take care of old landfills. That question is, in fact, substantial in relation to future household charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e609	When it comes to old landfills and how to deal with them in the future, I think the representative Heggem addresses an important question. Of course, the polluter pays principle applies here. Of course, those who own and own waste landfills are responsible for not needing leachate and also for meeting the ongoing environmental requirements of environmental authorities. Bear in mind that many of the companies that have deposited their waste here have for many years had a useful income from this, and it is up to them to continuously set aside enough so that in the future they can properly discharge the environmental obligations associated with the installations. Another question is waste disposal facilities where it is not possible to identify an owner – it is replaced by the owner or the company is bankrupt. It is then a task for the state to continuously assess the environmental impact of these landfills and whether it is right for the public to take action. But as a starting point, the 'polluter pays' principle applies here, of course. We see a growing tendency that when environmental problems arise related to old environmental taxes and contaminated land, it is said that environmental authorities and SFTs must come in and pay. But it is those who have contaminated, who have to pay, or we send out a very bad signal. I am absolutely convinced that the representative Heggem and I agree on this, but what he is obviously concerned about is that you should not get a ‘it’s not my table’ thinking, that everyone is shifting responsibility away. Environmental authorities must take responsibility where there is no «good». Then we have to have a plan for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e618	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 405]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e633	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e640	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Workers' Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 2 by Mr Voksdal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3-5, by Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of Socialist Left-wing Party, No. 6, from Karin Galaaen on behalf of the Centre Party
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e715	Point (b) of the first subparagraph is amended as follows: Six, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 2, first paragraph, point (b) factors affecting or likely to have a significant impact on the environment, including planned and implemented actions or activities in the environment, the characteristics or content of products, conditions of operation of activities, and administrative decisions and measures, including individual decisions, agreements, legislation, plans, strategies and programmes, as well as related analyses, calculations and assumptions;’;» The Progress Party supports the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e774	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 4: The law applies to Norwegian public bodies in Norway.The King may decide that the law shall apply in whole or in part to public bodies and businesses on Svalbard and Jan Mayen.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e813	For the second subparagraph, an aberrant proposal, No. Six, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 5, second paragraph: The provisions of Chapter 4 shall apply to all other public activities. The same applies to private activities and other organised activities which are subject to annual reporting by law.’;» The Progress Party has announced that they are moving towards the second stage of the suspension and will support the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e871	There are two different proposals. That is proposal No. 2 by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee The proposal from the Progress Party reads as follows: ‘§ 9: Any activity covered by Chapter 3 shall be required to have knowledge of the conditions of the activity, including their inputs and products, which may result in a non-negligible impact on the environment.’;» The proposal from the Centre Party reads as follows: ‘§ 9: Any activity covered by Chapters 3 or 4 shall have a knowledge of the conditions of the activity, including its inputs and products, which may have a significant impact on the environment.’;» First, the proposal from the Party for Progress and then, alternately, between the vote and the proposal from the Party for the Centre. The Progress Party has warned that they support this proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e1004	As regards Chapter 4, the Progress Party has announced that it will move towards the entire chapter. The President will therefore first vote on some of the proposals under Chapter 4. First of all, there is the question of proposal No. 6, from the Center Party, to Section 16, first paragraph. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 16, first paragraph: Everyone has the right to environmental information from activities referred to in the second paragraph of Section 5 on the conditions of the establishment, including its inputs and products, which could have a significant impact on the environment.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e1022	I also voted in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e1029	Then the proposal from the Central Party against 5 is not accepted. Then there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, to Section 16, second paragraph, first sentence. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 16, second paragraph, first sentence: The right to environmental information referred to in the first subparagraph shall also apply to impact on the environment as a result of the production or distribution of products outside the borders of Norway.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e1049	Finally, there is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to § 19. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The provisions of the Environmental Information Act shall be replaced by the following: The subject of the complaint shall be composed as follows: two members shall have a private business background, one shall have a public procurement background or the State industrial development instrument and the three others from an environmental protection organisation, a consumer organisation and one media body respectively. Section 19 fourth paragraph: When examining each case, the complainant shall consist of the President or Vice-Chairman and two members with different backgrounds from the Chairperson or Vice-Chairman. Section 19 fifth paragraph: Decisions of the Board of Appeal shall be taken by a general majority in a reasoned opinion and shall be published, in accordance with the detailed rules laid down by the King.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e1144	As I said, the party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e1189	For the first sentence of the second subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 20, second paragraph, first sentence: In the case of legislation, plans or programmes which may have an impact on the environment, a public consultation shall be carried out.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e1344	The party of progress has announced that they are going against this paragraph. The first sentence of the third subparagraph is accompanied by an aberrant proposal, No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Product Control Act shall be amended as follows: The first sentence of the third paragraph of Section 10 is replaced by the following: The right to information referred to in point (d) of the first subparagraph shall also apply to information on effects on the environment resulting from the production or distribution of products outside the borders of Norway.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e1418	For the first sentence of the first subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first sentence of the first paragraph of Article 33 to 13 of the Planning and Building Act is amended as follows: In the case of matters relating to the conversion or re-examination of a concession or permit for measures which may have an impact on the environment, natural resources or society, a public consultation shall be conducted.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e1477	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e1487	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e1498	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e1505	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Synnøve Konglevoll on behalf of the Workers' Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 2, by Øyvind Vaksdal, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party proposals No. 3 and 4, from Ola T. Heggem on behalf of the Centre Party, Proposals Nos. 1-3 is included in the vote, while proposal No. 4 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party and the Centre Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out an evaluation of the law after it has been operating for two years. In particular, the following areas need to be considered: Changes in the cost of refurbishment for consumers. Enterprise costs — especially in rural areas. Proposal No. Four, from the Center Party, it's like: ‘The decision asks the Government to design the scheme so that the costs of the control and supervision activities of the municipalities are fully borne by the owner of the waste.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e1632	Alternatively, I and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, which reads: «Ot.prp. No 87 sent back to the Government for further investigation.’ [[2001-2002]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e1655	There is an aberrant proposal, No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘II is replaced by the following: The Act shall enter into force on 1 March 2005.’ The President expects the Coastal Party to vote in favour of this proposal. Furthermore, the President is informed that the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left want to vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e1678	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e1690	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13-lower.ana.ud1992e1701	There is no record.
