ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e30	A lot has been said in the debate on the State Consultant itself, so I think I'll put this into a bigger context. I perceive that the Government's objective is to maximise the privatisation and outsourcing of public services. The Labour Party will stress that good public welfare offers provide individual basic security, while at the same time we want everyone to have equal opportunities regardless of where they live. Society needs to be adapted to the needs of users so that users can be involved in influencing the public sector. How can this be implemented and how do users respond to their needs? Well, of course, through those who work closest to the users. But then employees must have the opportunity to find appropriate and effective solutions. The Labour Party is not opposed to streamlining, developing and renewing the public sector, but this should be done in close cooperation between employees and management. If it doesn't, the respect they have for each other will be gone, and the results will be bad. As an example, I will mention the transfer of state supervision, and now the transformation of State Consultant into a limited liability company. Under no circumstances can the Workers' Party agree that only economic gains will govern this society. No, we still want man to focus. We do not want public offers to be based on market and competition. We want safe and simple solutions for the users, and we want good and predictable working and pay conditions for the employees. I believe that the government should take a break in its eagerness to release and split up service productions, and rather review whether this is really for the benefit of the users. I assume that the Government, through all restructuring in state enterprises, believes it is the best thing for users, and not just economic savings. The Labour Party sees that some changes must take place in the public sector, but not at the pace of the current government, with one hand on the steering wheel of the Progress Party. In fact, this also applies to the municipalities. Because, by strangling the local economy, many municipalities – against their will – will also go to the step of putting out services that are also required by law. This seems to be the strategy of the Government, and the Christian People's Party is involved. What's going on? Well, there's uncertainty. Uncertainty does not lead to a good working environment, on the contrary. Many of those who work in service production who are exposed to competition or privatised are women. Many of these jobs are part-time jobs. I'm very concerned on behalf of all the women who go into small part-time positions, that these women may never be able to do a full-day job. I believe this is a major issue of equality. No man would have gone into these positions. I welcome the consensus within the Committee that women and men should have equal opportunities, rights and responsibilities in family, work and social life. That is why I am satisfied with the 40/60 pst bill. gender representation in the board of directors of public limited-liability companies and all other public limited-liability companies. It is, of course, direct labour party policy, but I am not satisfied that the Government will start this after September 2005 at the earliest if the companies do not do the job voluntarily, even though the Workers' Party voted subsidiaryly for that. We know that today it's just 7.3 pst. female participation in such regimes. I believe that this is not a basis for believing that it is in place in 2005. I would encourage the Council of State to be a strong driver in the coordination work between departments in order to speed up gender equality, and I would encourage the Christian People's Party Councils to bring about gender equality also in church context. Finally, many crisis centres are struggling. Will the Council of State give them a high priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e56	The 2004 government budget was a budget for jobs, well-being and renewal. The right is very pleased that these priorities have been maintained through the historical budgetary agreement with the Labour Party. The government and government parties got a lot of criticism for the tight budget last year. But last year we've seen the positive results. The interest rate has fallen, and the exchange rate has weakened. This has helped to improve competitiveness and secure jobs very many places in the country. The family is the basic unit of society. One of its most important tasks is to provide children with safe growth. I believe that a modern family policy must take the consequences of gender equality. And it has to take the consequence that more and more people want to take an active part in their careers in more and more parts of their lives. Right will not pursue a policy where all families and children are to be integrated into an A4 pattern. We want freedom of choice! That's why we want more and cheaper kindergartens. Therefore, it is so important for us to keep the cash support. It is worth stressing that next year's budget for kindergarten transfers will increase by DKK 2.8 billion, while continuing with cash support. Few cases have been the subject of as much viewing as the cash support. I am dealing with the evaluation of the cash support, as the government Stoltenberg stated, and as the Stortinget treated last year. The evaluation showed that the critics are wrong. The cash support has led to an increase in parental freedom, and to a little more time for parents and children together. The cash support has not led to a wider use of the day’s mother, and the cash support has not resulted in a reduction in female participation, as the Workers’ Party and the Socialist Left Party have repeatedly claimed. I believe that the vast majority of children enjoy going to kindergarten, but it must be up to their parents to find out how long, how much and from when. May be the Labour Party or the Socialist Left Party, for example suggest that cash support is incredibly useful for many parents to give the smallest children a gradual introduction into kindergarten? It is important that women and men are given opportunities to participate equally in work and family life. Then fathers must have rights that strengthen their role in child care. That's why we want fathers to get birth grants on their own basis under the father's quota, and that everyone is entitled to cardboard leave on their own merits. I think it is necessary to focus on an important issue, namely the violence of men against women and children in close relationships. This is a serious problem, both nationally and internationally. Violence, abuse and assault are an extreme expression of the oppression of women. The fact that women are subjected to violence in their everyday lives severely limits their ability to participate actively in society, and it is an infringement of women's fundamental freedoms and fundamental human rights. It is absolutely necessary to get effective measures in place and to work for awareness and attitudes in society in order to prevent these inhumane actions directed specifically at women. In addition, more attention needs to be paid to the individual responsibilities of men for the exercise of violence. It should be unacceptable for the perpetrator of violence to remain in his own home, while partners and children must seek refuge in crisis centres. It is also important to strengthen treatment provision in relation to men in order to prevent violence. It is also important that children and young people who are either victims of violence or witnesses to violence receive the necessary help and support. Therefore, I am very pleased that the Government has announced that it will strengthen the work against vulnerable children by, among other things. strengthening the competence of child protection, family protection and crisis centres. In addition, the follow-up and treatment provision of these children will be followed up in the Government Action Plan to combat violence in close relations, presented in May 2004. Finally, I would like to stress that with this, the government parties have reached a good and responsible budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party, which implies a continuation of the efforts of the Cooperative Government in the area of family and administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e84	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e87	The Statskonsult case contains at least three relationships. For the first issue of directorate or AS after 1 January 2004. Secondly, in the case of AS, what tasks should the new State Consultant have? And for the third process, and right in relation to them added. The central party believes that the state should still have an independent professional body for efficiency, organisation, management, IT, etc. State Consultant today plays this role in a good way. The Ministry of Administration’s own budget proposal provides an additional report on the expertise of State Consultant until now. A recently released note from the Ministry of Justice shows that the Ministry of Justice has not recommended transformation. Its name was, among other things,\t\t You can ‘In our view, the State Consultant has mastered the balance between cooperating with the administration and being sufficiently challenging to trigger constructive improvement measures in our organisation.’ They're asking for a professional basis for the transformation. They require a concrete overview of the tasks the AS should have. The Ministry of Justice also points out, among other things: the large resource use of supply contests is required in relation to a State Consultant according to today's model. The centre party is surprised to note that the proposition does not specifically address the tasks of the new company. We find it relevant to recall that the Riksrevision has pointed out to the departments its extensive and cost-requiring use of consultants, and that the OECD has shown experience of increasing bureaucracy, inefficiency and expensive solutions due to competitive outsourcing. The government should not concentrate on a process where there is uncertainty about both budgetary conditions and their future and status. Saka should have sent us back for closer inspection. We regret that the Labour Party did not take this up and put it hard in the budget negotiations. Then, in a reply earlier today, the Council of State almost blamed the municipal committee for not having settled its affairs at that time. I have to ask him to confirm that the basis of Ot.prp. No 5 is part of the budgetary procedure, and that it was first in the open hearing on 8 December, with subsequent correspondence on 8 and 9 December, there was a clarification from the Council of State at the important point of waiting for those of those added who did not want to go into the new company.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e107	We register an ever-increasing advertising press and purchasing press, especially aimed at children and young people. We believe that it is a public task to help consumers in the fight against this massive influence. We must do this through both the law, the raising of children and young people, and not least the parents. We should help to bring forward the instruments and intentions of marketing, and we must contribute to increased insight and consumer influence. Public consumer information requires a job for consumer-friendly development and to improve the position of consumers. Is there a need for guidance, information and help? That looks like it. We see that the Consumer Council has a total of 137 000 enquiries this year, and it is quite stable. I have also become aware that calling the Consumer Council does not mean that you get through on the first attempt. What can be exciting to see in the future is also whether the reduction in the number of offices means a reduction in services or whether they are able to maintain the level they have had before. It will also be exciting to see how the number of enquiries to the office, which last year was over 20,000, will develop further. Substantial changes in markets and markets, marketing methods and channels make it more and more complicated for the consumer to inform himself on his own. This applies both to the price and quality of goods and services and to the rights you have and to the help you can get. The main consumer information websites often belong to international groups and are part of the sales of goods and services. Therefore, consumer information must be part of international cooperation. Here, the Consumer Ombudsman and the Consumer Council are important actors. Consumer information will become a key instrument in the future to create active and conscious consumers in an increasingly complex market, while at the same time it will be an important prerequisite for the positive governance of the consumer society. We in SV want to do something about this by strengthening the Consumer Council, the Consumer Ombudsman, the State Institute for Consumer Research – SIFO – and positive environmental labelling. Such strengthening, together with increased appropriations for consumer policy measures, will be an important contribution to the fight to ensure that each consumer is able to take a shopping trip, in a shopping centre or on the network, without being afraid of being tricked.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e118	My starting point for taking the floor in this debate was not to go into the fundamentals of this matter. That's what our representative Knudsen did. In the course of the debate, however, I still needed to speak, because it begins to take a picture in this case and the matter we have before the municipal committee, which, for me, is coming back and gives the impression that there has been a storm in a glass of water. It is clear that when the involvement of the former Council of State – now the representative of bigot – Trond Giske gets so high that he has to stand on the pulpit of the Stortinge and leak from the position of the municipal committee, which we have not actually issued yet, it is clear that there may be another agenda on which the noise that has come about this debate is based. Having said that, I also notice that the Council of State Victor D. Norman in the debate is trying to impose a certain responsibility on the municipal committee for the training of the case. I ask that perhaps all parties should give each other a Christmas premise. Now let's try to put down the swords, just for the sake of the employees and those who are directly involved in this matter. I don't think anyone deserves this. Although I am aware that the Workers' Party and SV, and the Centre's party too, have a strong commitment to working against all forms of efficiency and modernisation of the public sector, I think we are doing the employees of the Statskonsult a bear service using them as an experiment in such a case. We all know their commitment to this. These parties also know very well about the Government's commitment here, and most people know about the Progress Party's commitment to modernising and streamlining the public sector. I think, without suggesting anything from the municipal committee to issue tonight, that all parties have dealt with this matter clumsily, as our representative Knudsen also stated earlier today. It's about the government council, it's about the ministry, but it's also about the Stortinget. Continuing a witch hunt or looking for guilt questions in this matter now, I think it's just training the matter even more, and it'll make the confusion and uncertainty even greater for the employees. Now we have to get a clarification on the table. It is now being done in terms of transformation, and I hope that the municipal committee will arrive at a position later this evening that will also clarify the issues relating to the rights of employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e129	This debate could have been at least three minutes shorter, but after Afshan Rafiq's speeches, there is something that needs to be clarified once again. I recall, for the first time, that the tight budgetary framework that has now set in motion the great happiness of our society was, in fact, a broad consensus. Within that framework, we very much disagree. It gets to be, it's just like that. But when Rafiq impersonates freedom of choice and says in the same breath that women should also have the opportunity to use their education, then we're talking about freedom of choice. It's actually not everyone who can choose. In fact, the current housing market creates a need for both parents to work in many cases – and then there is no freedom of choice. And there's a new principle: people are going to get paid not to require kindergarten. Afghan Rafiq knows better than many others in this room how important it is not least for children with a minority background to be with Norwegian children to learn Norwegian culture and language. The Socialist Left Party, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party also talked about freedom of choice when we worked to get the kindergarten agreement. Then we did not hear much about the need for cash support, babysitting and freedom of choice. Then, in fact, the government parts had to be pulled a little bit after the hair to get to this equation. Now we're all happy that we've got this. But I think we should respect the fact that some of us have faith that children have the benefit of learning solidarity and fellowship in interaction with others. And then we have to respect that cash support is not as popular in all camps in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e138	The representative, Afghan Rafiq, made some statements about the cash support that I want to oppose. She says that there are no more women who are left out of work, that is, that the same number of women are at work, and that you get a little bit more time with the kids. That's Rafiq's word. Obviously there are two things that are related to the fact that SV says that this scheme has not been successful, because the joke was that you should be more at home with your children. Cash support has led to more part-time work for women, while men in Norway with children work more overtime than other men. What we're focusing on is that we believe that cash support has segmented a non-equal society. The fact that men work more and women less is the opposite of what the Christian People's Party has said earlier here today, that they want men to get longer maternity leave to have equal parenthood. SV has already promoted in the family message an extension of the paper commission from four to eight weeks, so we are pleased that the Christian People's Party is now signalling, because then it may become after each majority that men are also given a longer maternity leave. In the case of public sector conversion, the majority of governments and the Council of State appear as if there has not been a change in the public sector. I myself have been employed in the public sector for 25 years, and it has also been the head of this committee for many years – and there has been a continuous transition since the 1970s. It turns out that poor municipal economy over several years has led to reduced operation and continuous conversion. Municipalities and counties have poor finances, while their tasks have increased. There are several public tasks. There are several older people, there are more psychiatry, there's more alcohol, there's more child protection -- we've been through that before today -- there's more family issues that make it public need more resources. In his reply to me on my reply after the Council of State said that he has taken the criticism from the OECD inwards, and he refers to his explanation. So have I. I have pointed out some of the positive things that the Council of State has in its presentation. But the problem is that the Council of State does not follow its own statement. He does not have time to investigate, he does not have time to calculate the costs, and he does not have time to cooperate with the employees. This is why you do not have confidence in the process of conversion that is now taking place in the Ministry of Labour and Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e147	Once again, I would like to thank the Committee for a thorough debate. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to the Labour Party for taking responsibility and for following up the budgetary agreement. I have – at least within the limits of propriety – an understanding that the representative Geske verbally expresses his primary positions, because the most important thing is not what you say, but what you actually do. I have noted with satisfaction that the representative Giske's rhetoric in the debate today has been significantly subdued. That, I think, was a wise strategy, considering that the Workers' Party is actually going to vote for this transition. I think it's very important now to get some rest around Statskonsult. Now it is important to focus on the possibilities of the new company. Employees have a very important competence that must now be used throughout the public sector, not only in central central government. A transformation into AS is important in order to improve the correctness of users, more competition for services so that they become better and more efficient, and more efficient use of public resources. Once again, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the Workers' Party will vote for this important transformation and also support the important work of the Government to modernise and streamline the public sector. In conclusion, I would like to make a proposal from the Workers' Party and the Government Parties which include increasing the Chapter III framework. 320 item 73, listed by 211.3 million. kr. This has to do with a majority proposal to grant $10 million. kr for the start of the Romany Department at the Glomdal Museum. It appeared in the budget negotiations between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties in the Committee. It was therefore not previously set up in the Government's original proposal. This proposal will be distributed later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e158	The representative, Sonja Irene Sjøli, has drawn up what she was proposing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e162	What made me take the floor was a relatively special post by the representative Sandberg. He believes that the discussion around Statskonsult is almost an unworthy debate. In view of the fact that he represents a party whose parliamentary leader is in constant dispute with Victor Norman about roundabouts of white cheese and peppers, we are told from the edge of what kind of debates to put the swords on! This is about something much bigger. These are the rights of employees in State Consulting. I simply cannot understand the criticism per sandberg is directed at Stortinget's handling of this matter. Had it not been for the Storting through our committee and the municipal committee to have raised the issue of employees' rights, we had, by signing Victor Norman's proposal, deprived them of essential rights. At that time, Victor Norman's proposition had been put forward as the preliminary work for the law that the Municipal Committee will go into in order for us to adopt. It was then categorically stated that you do not have the right to a waiting wage because you have said no to ‘other decent work’. We actually believe that this differs significantly from other transformations. That's what's our main point, because there's a significant downgrading in the proposition. It cannot be precisely numerically fixed, as representatives of the government parties have also said here earlier, but one suggests in the budget proposal up to half of the employees. That is, half is going to go, and then the question is, is it ‘other decent work’ to get into a situation where you have a very great chance that the work that you are offered is gone in a very short time? Then, of course, the law that the municipal committee is likely to adopt in order for us to adopt, ensures that the rights that we already had in the new company are granted. But 'other decent work' is not to be cancelled. So there's a question about this word "wild". Now Per Sandberg is a little offended that what the parties do in the municipal committee is notified before the vote is given. Now it's nothing new that the parties are telling about their positions, and the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party believe that they have been misled. What the Progress Party means, and if you want to say it before setting it, is up to the Progress Party. That's the rules here in the house, and that's what I thought Per Sandberg could do after so many years. I just have to say that I think it almost goes above the stick and stone when the representative Per Sandberg starts talking about the employees' rights and the employee's relationships, that's what's going on. In the only comments of the Progress Party on this, in our position at least, the main points are: one is that the equity of the new company is too high. The capital needed to ensure that the company is able to clear it and become competitive when it is necessary to reduce it by means of a large number of redundancies. The second point is that the company should be privatised and thrown out to the wolves together with the other consultants. Then I think you have to stop talking about the employees' relationships!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e177	Now the next speaker is the Council of State. He might be able to figure out if it was brown or white cheese?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e180	It was at least about brown cheese, but I think it was about something more. I think that's something the representative Hagen and I can take up between us, and that I don't have to bother the Storting with right now. I really asked for the floor to comment on the contributions of the representatives Per Sandberg and Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa. I want to say first of all that I want to stick fully to what Per Sandberg said. I think it is important for the employees that there is at least now a calm about the matter and a calm about the issue of rights. In this respect, let me also make it clear that it was not my intention to criticise the Municipal Committee for its consideration of the matter. I can confirm without delay what Magnhild Melting Authority Kleppa asked me to confirm. My concern has always been to ensure that the employees of the State Consultant get a realistic picture of the choices they have, and the consequences for each of them of the choices. It is therefore our assessment – and we can come back to this in the debate on the position of the Municipal Committee – that they are offered ‘other appropriate work’ in Statskonsult AS. I think that's very important if that's the case, that they get that picture. So I hope now, like Per Sandberg, that everyone, each in their own way, can help at least ensure that the employees affected by this transformation get a complete and realistic picture of the choices they have, and the consequences it has for them. So for the article to May Hansen, who said we didn't have time to figure out, not time to calculate the cost and not time to consult the employees. I don't feel taken by that criticism. In the matter of Statskonsult, we have had a very good time to investigate and have investigated a number of different alternatives. We have had time to calculate the cost, and detailed cost calculations are available. We have had time to consult the employees, both through the fact that the State Consultant's management has consulted the organisations in the State Consultant, and through the fact that we have had a special process with the main associations in the state. The fact that some of the people we have consulted with do not agree with the conclusions we draw is another matter. But it is now time for democratic processes to be heard as much as possible. However, the views of all who are heard cannot be reflected in the proposal that is being promoted. It would only happen if everyone actually agreed on all the issues. I must personally say that in the Statkonsult case I understand well the arguments against transformation and have great respect for them. We have come to a different conclusion. I think we need to demand equal respect for our conclusion. Through a consultation process, all views shall be expressed and heard, and some shall draw a conclusion. The government has done that in the proposal of the Storting, and it seems that the Storing will do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e197	Now I'm withdrawing the debate, but I can't avoid it. I was about to propose a conversion process for former state councils that would go from being state council to becoming big government councillors. Then the representative, Giske, can be the first! It is clear that there are still State Council figures when Gishe is trying to claim that Sandberg is unable to deal with matters within the Committee. Now I know there are more in the committee who have reacted to Giske's play earlier today. One thing is that he likes it from the committee, and on behalf of the Workers' Party he has to do it. But I confessed that he was talking about a majority in the committee when he spoke earlier today. Then he speaks on behalf of several, and the Workers' Party has not recognized me as a majority alone in the Committee. At least that's the procedure we've been using in the municipal committee. Giske says in his statement: ‘It concerns the rights of employees’. No, no, no. The matter we are dealing with here today is about a transformation. The issue of the rights of employees is still under consideration in the Committee. That's the former state council. I don't think it's easy to understand. That's the actual situation. If I were to leak something from the procedure that we have in the committee, about how far we have come in relation to the vote, we are still discussing. We just received the last draft. It came in our hoard 5 minutes ago. Then it is directly devastating that the representative Giske is standing here and proceeding from that setting. I think Giske should allow the representatives of the municipal committee to deal with that matter. We also know that, by dealing with this matter in its committee, Giske has actually been involved in our treatment in the form of asking questions to the department, etc. It's unfortunate. I don't understand, but I understand it so that the representative Giske is very hairy in pre-Christmas. I hope that he will also, when the matter is settled, try to get a little more Christmas atmosphere instead of bringing sarcasm and arrogance in relation to rounds etc. Of course, it's a completely different matter. Anyone who tries to bring this case down to a low level must in case be the representative Giske, who starts talking about roundabouts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e212	I really shouldn't have taken the floor, but the representative Fallet wanted to extend this debate by another 3 minutes. I showed in my contribution to the evaluation of the cash support, which the government actually provided. It was also on the basis of this evaluation that the representative of the Faldet’s own government decided to rescue the cash support until further notice. I therefore think it becomes a bit strange with the criticism that the Fall now comes with the cash support. It's like 74.6 pst. of children aged 1 to 3 years participating in this scheme, which shows that there is still a popular scheme. I share the view of the representative Fallet that children have a good time to go to kindergarten, but unlike the representative Fallet, I believe that it must be up to parents to decide how long, how much and when their child will start in kindergarten. I understand that the representative has no understanding of that. I think this is simply a distrust of young children's parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e221	The representative who fell has the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e224	I have a lot of understanding for a lot of groups. It's not about doing that. I think this debate is going to continue. I don't care about an evaluation. I'm talking about people who need kindergarten and who need a real choice. Now when I take the floor, it's to give Sonja Sjöli a greeting. It was a pity she didn't follow when her own councillor, Norman, had the word and talked about respect for each other's views in the State Consulting case. I would like to say here from this speaker that there is something about this matter that is very difficult for the Workers' Party. We're opposed to conversion to an AS. We in the Workers' Party felt that we had to agree to this agreement. Then I think the representative Sonja Sjøli should be very careful about criticising the Workers' Party, because we actually helped this government stay on its feet.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e233	The President may imagine more parliamentary terms than ‘swine’.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e236	It feels a little strange when the representative Per Sandberg first recommends everyone to put down the sword, and then he beats himself in both east and west! He comes up with an attack on the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, and he thinks that these parties in this case are using all the possibilities to fight against modernisation and efficiency, while he himself represents a party that is completely uncritical of AS-ification, regardless of the counter-representations that may come. Let me just say that the Center Party is also going to vote for what we are for, and for what we are against. We're going against putting off competition in areas where there's clear advice on the opposite. So punish Sandberg's statements from Trond Giske. He can defend himself well. I know. But let me nevertheless say that what Trond Giske said was: ‘In the Municipal Committee, as I understand it, there is a majority who use the term ‘misleading’ about the Council of State’s information to the Stortinget.’ There is no doubt that both the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have used this expression in the media. So the parties have multiples in the committee, if they don't have them in the room. So I didn't think it was anything to do so big a number of. What is important, however, is that we are dealing here with a case submitted by the Council of State that more than anyone should know about legislation and conversion processes, which itself has signed a separate agreement on conversion, which has said in Storting that the modernisation work must be anchored in their addition: ‘Good public service provision requires enthusiasm and in-progress with those providing the services. A process in which the employees in the worst case are opposed, and at best only the half-hearted are involved, will not lead to the goal. We will therefore – on behalf of the Government – ‘emphasise the importance of both listening to and involving employees’ organisations.’ The main concern of the Centre Party in this matter is that we from this Council of State have seen little commitment and little care in relation to the added ones, who are in a particularly difficult process, and that process is so time consuming, demanding in every way, because he is so short.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e257	Sonja Irene Sjøli has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e260	I think it must be a manifest misunderstanding on the part of the representative for the Fall. In fact, I paid tribute to the Workers’ Party for taking responsibility, despite their opposition to this matter. They took responsibility and agreed to vote for this important transformation, even though they were against it. When it comes to respect, understanding and respect for the views of others are not what has been most striking on the part of the Labour Party in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e266	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1195]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e282	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1224]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e298	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1225]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e315	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1226]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e332	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1226]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e349	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1226]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e365	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1226]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e382	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1228]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e398	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1228]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e414	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Progress Party and Socialist Left Party 15 minutes each, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of a reply of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's taken for granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e425	The cost to municipalities of care and psychiatric treatment is a well-known theme in Stortinget. A better economic system than we have now has been called for several times. The last one happened when the municipal bill for this year was treated. There is a broad consensus that municipalities with a particularly high cost of care and psychiatric treatment need more financial assistance from the state than they now have. Usemja has been involved in the distribution of funds to municipalities. A number in the municipal committee believe that the model presented by the government cannot be accepted. It clearly has adverse and untimely distributional effects. In the 2004 municipal proposal, the Government proposed a new cost key for social services. The majority in Stortinget did not endorse the proposal. The distribution of funds between municipalities was unacceptable. That's why the government's arrangement was rejected. The majority decided in June that the Government should present its own case on the cost key for social services in the autumn 2003 session. It was done, and that is the message we are now debating. The politically interesting thing is that, despite the reception of the proposal at the Stortinget in June, the Government presents exactly the same proposal and the same contents in October. The only difference is that the latest version is much more voluminous. The government has been asked to provide a cost key that is more accurate and that compensates far more for the large costs of care and psychiatric treatment incurred by some municipalities than the government's proposal. That was requested during the treatment in the spring session. Just the same call was received by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs in a letter from the case-speaker on 24 October this year. It is critical that the Council of State has rejected the call. This has an important basis for taking a decision from several parties in the Storting. Governments would like to have a firm attitude, but it is very unfortunate that it has not been willing to use the distribution capacity of the government apparatus, so that several of the parties have been given the required decision-making basis – several times. Such behaviour on the part of the Council of State does not give rise to respect. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre believe that cost keys should be professionally based. It is simply the sum of the criteria and weights that largely determine whether the costs for municipalities are being compensated. The proposal for a new cost key for social services has made significant changes to the weights. The urbanity criterion has a very central role to play. The consequence of this is that many municipalities with high expenditures on drug care and psychiatric treatment get their financial situation worse. It's totally unimaginable. In the big news, it is pointed out that when it comes to intermunicipal variations in the number of drug users, there is a lot of evidence that problems are greatest in the largest cities. When it comes to drugs, figures show that problems are greater in the big cities, and especially in Oslo, than in the country else. The government has pointed out to the Storting that although drug problems are on average highest in major cities, there is evidence that several other major cities, other than large cities, may have as large groups of users related to the population. There is no reason to stress that the growth of drug problems seems to be the largest outside the big cities. The largest municipal authorities face major challenges in the field of care and psychiatric treatment. Therefore, they need more financial support from the state. There is evidence that the image is quite nuanced. A number of other municipalities and a number of municipalities with regional functions spend a lot of time on the services listed, without the government proposal giving them any help. On the contrary, more of the municipalities in question are getting worse conditions than they now have, for example: Fredrikstad, Drammen, Skien, Haugesund and Kristiansund. Several of these municipalities now have large city councils to compensate for the cost of drug treatment and psychiatric treatment. The government proposal gives the same municipalities poorer conditions to provide help to people who are struggling badly because of drug problems or psychiatric problems. It must be a paradox. An important requirement for a new cost key for social services must be to take care of living conditions in municipalities. In the setting, the majority have illustrated this deficiency by referring to a comparison between the municipalities of Skien and Asker; municipalities that are similar to the population. The most clearly rich municipality, with the highest tax revenue and the lowest social expenditure, is looking at the conversion of the system. The difference is going to be 25 million. kr. There is a lot to say what kind of provision the two municipalities can give to groups with a lot of help. Major expenditures on care and psychiatric treatment are not just a problem for the very largest urban communities. Verdal has had and has exactly the same challenges, although the municipality only has at the base of 14,000 inhabitants. In the 1970s, the municipality had a very strong increase in the population due to industrial travel. The population increased from approx. 9 000 to over 13 000 in a few years. In the wake of this, Verdal has had a number of challenges. The biggest problem is ours in the youth community. The problems of rust have been very growing. Very many were drug injectors who went on heroin. This was clearly reflected in crime statistics, where the municipality was sky high above the other municipalities in the county when it was a colossal mining and drug crime. The municipality of Verdal has made an offensive effort to solve and prevent problems. The challenge is still great. Despite that, the government's proposal for a new cost key will give Verdal municipality 5 million. kr less per. in the context of care and psychiatric treatment. On the other hand, the company, which is a tax-paying municipality, will receive a profit of over 46 million. kr. It is unthinkable to introduce a new element in the income system that does not find a satisfactory solution for a number of municipalities with large responsibilities within the drug area and psychiatric treatment. The working party cannot accept a system that seems so unfair. This has to be done more quickly. She's unfinished on the Government's side. We want to create a more match-safe system. It is desirable to agree during the treatment of the municipality’s 2005 proposal. Until the new system can be put into operation, we will continue the system with capital and big city tips. I would point out that we spend the same amount of money for the purpose set by the Government in 2004. The difference is that we want a system that compensates all municipalities that have particularly big challenges in the area of drug care and psychiatric treatment. Changing the income system for municipalities is a big deal. This system has a lot to say about what kind of services the municipalities can provide to their inhabitants. Then it must be borne in mind that the proposal from the Government has been given a hard ride from many municipalities that are struggling with heavy spending on drug care and psychiatric treatment. Recordings during the examination of the cases and the hearings held recently by the Municipal Committee have given one dominant view: the proposal for a new cost key for social services should not be accepted. In spite of this drumming party and the Progress Party through the cause. There will be too many municipalities and too many users in need of care and psychiatric care. The new cost key for social services lacks legitimacy in municipalities. It should have taken the government party and the Progress Party a long time ago. The progress game has played a strange role in this matter. The party did not endorse the government proposal in June of this year. At that time, the conclusion was that there was a need for a private matter. It was the distribution effect that was the objection. When the big message was presented in the fall, the Progress Party rejected the proposal put forward by the Government. Later, the same party has turned the other way around and now gives full support to the government's arrangement. It happens without there being a new moment in the matter. This cannot be called ‘principal’ or ‘respectable’. I would like to comment on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e463	The representative, Mr. Reidar Sandal, has drawn up the proposal he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e466	There is a broad consensus in this room that variations in the expenditure needs of municipalities related to drugs and psychiatry are not well enough captured through criteria in today’s income system. It is also a fact that the question of follow-up in the area has been raised several times in Stortinget. The background to the fact that the case is on our table today is a decision during the examination of the municipal proposal for 2004, in which the Progress Party was given a majority for a proposal in which the Stortinget asked the Government in autumn 2003 to promote its own case for the Stortingen concerning changes in the cost key for the municipal sector. The decision further requested that the case be promoted in parallel with the submission of the 2004 State Budget. That's what we're dealing with right now. This is therefore about the choice of model, and the consequences of this model choice will be reflected in the municipal sector budget to be dealt with in the Stortinget next Monday. The current cost key for social services is based on 1993 data. Variations in the expenditure needs of municipalities related to social services are, to a large extent, also related to drug use and psychiatry. This is therefore not adequately captured through today’s income system. The right belongs to the majority of the municipal committee which considers that the proposal for a new cost key for social services presented by the Government has a distribution effect which meets the potential of a number of major municipalities to provide a better offer to their inhabitants. However, we should be aware of the fact that for a number of municipalities, the proposed change would be negative. These are municipalities with some major challenges in the field of care and psychiatry, such as Sandefjord, Fredrikstad, Skien, Haugesund, Kristiansund and Verdal. There is reason to point out that this is also due to changes other than the proposal for a new urbanity criterion. Common to several of these municipalities is also the role of a regional centre, offering far more inhabitants than those who live in the city. It means a magnetic effect, even in relation to problems related to drugs and psychiatry. However, such rashes may well be captured and adjusted via discretionary means. Furthermore, there is reason to recall that the municipalities that, as a result of implementing four changes in the income system started in 2002, as well as new sub-cost keys for agriculture, the environment and drugs and psychiatry, have less than 110 pst. of average tax revenue, will be compensated for losses in excess of NOK 200 per year. incorporates through discretionary grants. Nevertheless, the members of the Municipal Committee of the Right Party, the Progressive Party and the Christian People's Party have asked the Ministry to review the impact on municipalities that are particularly vulnerable to the change in the cost keys in the income system and that have specific and possibly more time-limited expenditures related to drug use and psychiatry. We ask the Ministry to compensate such municipalities for exceptional expenditure through discretionary means, insofar as other changes and measures do not outweigh losses as a result of changes in the cost key for drugs and psychiatry. In addition, we ask for the reduced Income System Committee to make its own assessment of whether and how objective criteria can capture particularly large amounts of drug-related and psychiatry-related expenditure, regardless of the size of the municipality. Nevertheless, there is good reason to stress that the main picture drawn in the baseline material of SIRUS, or the State Institute for Drug Research, is that a high proportion of residents in the municipality are primarily spending-generating on the social budget. Therefore, it is very relevant to establish the income system to compensate municipalities through the social services sub-cost key, as proposed by the Ministry in the case we are dealing with here. There is therefore no reason to postpone the handling of this matter. I do not believe that analytical methods and data base will improve significantly in the short term until the municipal proposal is submitted. Therefore, it is far more fruitful to do what the Government Parties and the Advance Party here request, namely to return to this work in the follow-up to the work of the Income System Committee. There may also be grounds for stressing that changes in grants due to new cost key for social services and the liquidation of the capital and metropolitan grants will be covered by the transitional arrangements of the income system. This means that the changes only get 20 pst. impact in 2004. On this basis, there is good reason to recommend the present position in this case, so that we can still keep pace with the work of modernising and improving the income system for Kommune-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e494	This case has been difficult, mainly because we have a system of income for the municipal sector that is so complicated and so unfair that no matter what angle you attack from to change it, it will seem negative to some people. I will first be allowed to spend some time quoting what I said during the treatment of the municipal proposition, not because I feel some need to defend the position and process of the Progress Party from June, but in case there were some misunderstandings in relation to the proposal that I made at that time, and that got a majority. The rapporteur also referred to that proposal. It is important to be allowed to state that it was a proposal promoted by the Progress Party. There I said the following: ‘Let me first say to the Council of State that she should not doubt that the Progress Party shares the Government’s view that an urbanity criterion must be introduced. The reason why we – that is, the Progress Party – ‘want a little more time and a separate case in parallel with the State budget is that we want to focus on exactly what the Council of State concluded in its contribution. There are also other criteria that are not perfect and create discrimination in the income system.» That was the starting point of the Advance Party. We already made it clear at the time that this was in line with our policy, and that it was moving more towards objective criteria based on the population. In this way, there should be no doubt. Furthermore, I understand that the case rapporteur has read some newspaper headlines about me. I said early, immediately when this matter was submitted to Stortinget, that as the case is now, I doubt that it goes through in Stortinget. The reason was, point 1, that the government had actually failed to deposit the SEK 1.5 billion for which the Progress Party was given a majority in the context of the municipal proposition. At that time I was ready: if they did not come into place, it was impossible for us to support the matter as it was. And point number. 2: I have also been aware that the municipalities that are currently struggling with problems in the field of drugs and psychiatry should be taken care of for various reasons. So there is something new that has come into the setting, which the case rapporteur has not registered. Now it's pointed out by the representative from the Right, and I can do it myself, that these municipalities are to be compensated through discretionary means. The compensation limit of 200 kroner included in the message is not good enough. That's why we want funds beyond that. I also hope that the Council of State will clarify this at a later stage. Now it was such that the Workers' Party in its agreement – and they should have credit for it – actually negotiated NOK 1.6 billion to the primary municipalities. So they were SEK 1.5 billion that was initially missing, in place. So that was the problem solved. So now, through negotiations with the government parties in Stortinget, I have been told that the funds will come from the discretionary pot to those municipalities that are badly exposed. That's point number. 2 solved, and then it was not to appear as any surprise or anything strange for neither the case rapporteur nor others that the Progress Party supports this matter. But I am more than willing to enter into a general debate on the income system and how unfair it is. This case is actually proof of how unfair the system is. Now, it has also been the case – without defending government, state council or others – that several governments have stirred up this income system over the years, which has done so more and more unfairly. Now the government has reduced a selection. I have no greater faith that there will be any solution in such a sample either, when you look at the mandate given to the sample. I would have liked the sample to have been given a more extended mandate compared to looking at the income system of the local government sector. Then I have been through the process of the Advance Party until today. I have also commented on what should have been done. I would also say that if we had made these changes at an earlier time, we might not have gotten the violent noise around the matter either. Then I would like to talk a little about Verdal municipality too, as I live in the neighbouring municipality. I have some knowledge of the municipality of Verdal. It is correct what the case-rapporteur says about what has been happening in the municipality of Verdal. But the municipality is about to succeed. However, it is not because it has received more money transferred through the income system, it is because it has gripped the problem. The municipality has first and foremost been given the aim of cleaning the entire municipality of Verdal for drugs, a man who has committed himself to zero tolerance. That is one of the areas, and I also call for that in this debate. Maybe there's the wrong title to this, maybe it's not the cost key for drugs and psychiatry or the kind of thing we should have called it. Maybe we should have called it a fairer model, in the direction of a fairer model. Because if there's the debate about drugs and psychiatry and the problems here, social services, we should have talked about what we can do to prevent them from having such a huge expenditure. And then I'd like to say a little bit about the well-being of the Progress Party. I know that there's a matter for the Storting about whether a number of public agencies need to be seen in context, and perhaps merged, in order to direct follow-up of the individual. It might remedy the situation for those people who have these problems. We have Russreform I and II. Hopefully, those reforms will turn out to relieve the local authorities of their problems. I'm saying hopefully, but basically, I think the solution to this is that we have to switch to a completely different funding system. We have had more debates on this. When it comes to concrete problems that the municipalities are struggling with, we see that they are variable from municipality to municipality. The rapporteur pointed out why this is so. And then I think the solution is actually going in the direction that we have to have a proper placement of the financial responsibility to follow up these people. That is what lies in the model of the Progress Party. It is independent of whether you have drug problems or psychiatric problems, whether you are unemployed, immigrants or whatever it may be. The point is that a welfare office is provided with a welfare consultant who follows up the individual from the moment he seeks help from the public. Only then do I think we get a follow-up and a prevention of these issues that will help in the long term. It is simply a funding system that the Progress Party has been talking up and down, which needs to be assessed, and which I miss in the sample that the Government has put down to look at a new income system. I miss that it does not have a mandate to look at that kind of thing as well. That's what I wanted. It would have been that the welfare establishment, based on the number of individuals it had for treatment, depending on the problems the individual had, was paid out the support directly through the local social security office. We do it in many other areas, and I think it could also have been the solution in this area. I had a round yesterday where I tried to go through the debate that has been in the public room on this matter. It is pointed out that many municipalities have exceptional problems. In general, however, I do not feel that there has been any pressure from Kommune-Norway or KS in relation to the criticism of these changes. I feel more that it is politically oriented than that it actually comes from the municipal sector. But I think it is a little important – as it is now in the agreement that 2 billion kroner have been put in place for the municipal sector, including the county councils – to look at the nominal growth that is taking place in the municipalities now. For once, the party in progress has been at the forefront of trying to increase transfers to the local government sector. That's because when you don't change the system, we have to transfer something more money. But there must be some constraints. I heard that the case-rapporteur mentioned some municipalities, among others. Fredrikstad, who will suffer in a way from this change. Fredrikstad will have a nominal growth of 99 million next year. kr. It sounds like a useful increase, to put it like that, at 6.5 pst. We can also take the municipality of Sandefjord, which has one billion kroner on the book, just to get it mentioned. They get a nominal increase of 66 million next year. kr. It seems to me to be a useful growth. We can also take the municipality of Verdal. The municipality of Verdal is in a violent transformation, with a violent rationalization and efficiency enhancement. They are in the process of succeeding in getting their budgets and accounts under control. They'll have a nominal growth next year of 14.5 million. kr. To me, it seems to be a significant increase for the municipality of Verdal. We must be able to expect that parties belonging to the left side of Norwegian policy will also be able to take a realistic debate on the local economy. I tried to challenge the case rapporteur in this case, the representative Sandal, in relation to the economy in general in the municipal sector during the debate on the municipal proposal. Then I drew Bykle as an example. Not all municipalities suffer from tight budgets. What's the problem is the bias with respect to the income system. And my claim is, in fact, that a number of municipalities, perhaps the majority of municipalities, until today have got too much in transfers at the expense of other municipalities. I'm in the district commission, to get it mentioned too, and there's also a debate about this. We must seek to arrive at a system when we now see developments in relation to the mobility of people. We can't walk around and believe that we're going to put people inside the city. There will be greater and greater movement, and then we cannot base an income system on a fixed-dwelling pattern for municipalities. The debate on changing the cost key for social services to municipalities is about much, much more than that the municipality of Verdal will receive 1 million next year. NOK less in transfers than before because of the cost key. It's about so much more than that. Therefore, the Progress Party has come to the conclusion that we are in the direction of the government parties here, but that we have – and we will follow this up next year – that the municipalities that have exceptional problems should be followed up through the discretionary pot.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e527	First, I would like to address the proposal in the vote. For SV, it is important that the income system for municipalities is based on fair distribution both on the expenditure side and on the income side. It's probably impossible to put in place a system that captures needs and income distribution in as different municipalities as Oslo and Utsira, with which everyone would be satisfied. My soul is more and more in doubt if we get all the criteria into one single system. But I'm going to let that lie now. The technical side of the case was thoroughly reviewed by the case rapporteur, and the main points of view were completely agreed with the Workers' Party. An income system is needed that better captures costs related to drug and psychiatry tasks. That's a lot of priority for all of us. It is therefore important that municipalities can afford both prevention, rehabilitation, care, care, housing and aftercare. The changes proposed come at a difficult time, making all changes difficult. Now it's true that it's gotten a little better, because the budget agreement got in place a little over NOK 2 billion in the 2004 budget. But I would like to remind the Storting that this year's tax failure for the municipal sector is almost the same. That means we're roughly on the status quo for the local government sector, as a whole. 66 out of 434 municipalities serve the conversion. Most of it goes to the five major cities and to some other popular municipalities, such as Bærum, Asker, Sandnes and Sola. Some small Western municipalities are also getting a little more because the high divorce rates are no longer being premiered as much as before, and then Finnmark municipalities lose it. The capital has some tasks that no one else has. It must be recognised and given the opportunity to carry out the tasks associated with it. The State has a co-responsibility for having a revenue base for those tasks. Some of this is due to drug abuse and psychiatric problems, because Oslo has half of its injecting drug users, a high level of alcohol consumption in relation to other countries, and many are entering from the rural and rural areas both for the sake of excitement and because their problems become so visible in a transparent community. Other major cities experience some of the same and also have tasks in relation to their surroundings. However, many other rural municipalities also have major problems with drug use and psychiatry. Some of the enquiries we have received from local authorities in this matter say something like this: Now we have finally managed to stack on our legs an offer that can catch up with drug users, so that we may be able to prevent them before they get hooked and travel to Oslo. We can give them a housing offer, we can give them an offer that makes them not heavy drug users. But now the income system is changing so that we lose this money, and then the risk of many of them traveling is the same. So this is not a simple problem to solve, and there are many things that play in. So it's not just sad and bad and difficult in the city. On the contrary, all trends say that the city is popular. It attracts many who have it difficult, but jamming also attracts many of those who have competence, creativity and high incomes, it attracts many young people and a lot of money. Free revenue per year The population is much higher in cities than in the country, and the growth of these revenues is increasing more in central areas than in the rest of the country. For example, Oslo has the richest of the country and the poorest of its inhabitants. And this is where we see the Right Policy best. Only this year, according to their own information, Oslo loses nearly half a billion dollars because of tax law. Then we see that taxation policy is directly involved in care and psychiatric care because such priorities have been given. So that's also a choice you make. And then it goes beyond exactly what this case was about, that we should have enough money to take care of those who have problems with drugs and psychiatry. If we're going to do that, we can't do it just by taking from other municipalities, but we also have to look at other possibilities and secure income for this. Then, of course, we have to look at the distribution policy between municipalities, within municipalities and between income groups. For example, the distribution of income in the income system, which we in SV are concerned with, is such that the tax revenue must be above 134 pst. of the national average before having to contribute 50 pst. of excess income to municipalities with very low tax revenues. It says a little bit about not just focusing on the costs, but you also have to be willing to be on the income side. The entire income system is now turning towards large-scale municipalities, and there are good reasons for this. One of the reasons is that where a lot of people are involved, the offer in the areas we're talking about today is easy to get hung up on, but also in terms of the usual welfare tasks like school and health. It's going to be very wrong if it hangs on in such a way that a large and purchasing population is very dissatisfied with the public offer and is looking for private solutions. Then the community breaks up, and therefore SV has agreed to many of the changes that have taken place in order to increase the income of the immigrant municipalities more than today. Unfortunately, the proposal for the partial cost key that we are dealing with today, which is based on the use of drugs and psychiatry – which Stortinget has agreed to – has not become, in the SV's opinion, a criterion that captures it well enough. It has become an urbanity criterion. Maybe that's what we're going to have, but then we're going to have to say it and not say that this is going to cover the cost of drugs and psychiatry, when that's not true. There are a lot of living conditions parameters, and the distribution that we look at the different municipalities is not just wrong in relation to drugs and psychiatry. It also fails in relation to high-income municipalities, such as Denmark, Germany and the United Kingdom. Ashes and Bears. To the Municipal Report, the Council of State has stated that the Stortinget has not asked for a new cost key. It kind of surprises me. The council is well the government's sharpest card, and I'm quite convinced that she realized that the Storting asked for a different distribution because you saw these errors. The justification was also given. But I also understand that the government can finely ignore what Stortinget says. It succeeds because the Progress Party is not to trust either in this case or in other matters, and turns here and there not only from case to case, but also in the same case. By 29 October at the latest, Per Sandberg stated to the Municipal Report that this cost key was not acceptable and had to be returned. So it's a little bit hard to understand. The councils have also been ‘provoked by the protests against her new key’, and say sea that «the professional assessments shall be of a professional nature. The urbanity criterion is that which best matches the actual expenditure of municipalities on drugs and mental health problems. There's a strange statement considering what Hans Olav Melberg in SIRUS, who's been investigating this, also says to the Municipal Report, where it says: ‘He cannot respond to the fact that the actual expenditure on drugs and psychiatry by municipalities is better captured by the new social welfare key. The ministry has used the criterion we recommended, namely the population, but has determined the weight of it itself. It should probably weigh up to remove capital and metropolitan supplements. We have not considered the effect of reducing the weight of the unemployed and the signs. I see there's going to be some weird rash. But there is no variable that fits perfectly for all municipalities." I'm guessing the last thing SV can agree with. He also says that there are many other municipalities that have high expenditure on drugs and psychiatry, mentioning that the Drammen was on top in 2001, and that the expenditure growth has been highest among the second largest municipalities and cities. The redistribution of money to the municipalities is a big deal. It's a political matter. To think that so-called professional criteria that the government fixes a little bit, is not politics, we think is a little naive. Of course, this is policy, and then you could say it right out. SV believes that the matter should have been resolved better. If there's a rush and psychiatry you have to fix, you'll get it right. But we want to stick to the commitments we made in a joint comment by SV and the Workers' Party in the treatment of the Municipal Proposition for 2004, and ensure that Oslo and Bergen within the money that can now be allocated secure revenues in line with what they would receive in the proposed conversion from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e580	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e583	Today’s income system does not adequately address municipal spending needs related to drug use and psychiatry. The revenue system is based entirely on 1993 data. The fact that these costs are not adequately compensated is likely to have hit the largest cities in the first place. These were therefore granted a metropolitan grant in 2003 and Oslo received a separate metropolitan grant. The question of follow-up in the area has been raised several times in Stortinget, among others. in the examination of the municipal proposals for 2002 and 2003. Against this background, the Government presented proposals for a new cost key for social services in the 2004 municipalproposition, with follow-up to the State budget and a separate big message, which we are discussing today. We note that a high proportion of people with drug problems or psychiatric problems, primarily in terms of the income system, are cost-generating for municipal social assistance expenditure. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has therefore chosen to restate the sub-cost key for social services and proposes the introduction of a new criterion based on the population – a so-called urbanity criterion. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to anchor the cost key related to drugs and psychiatry in the actual expenditure of municipalities in this area. That is why I have repeatedly assured myself in the process of dealing with the matter that the Department is based on professional analyses and objective criteria. Just in order to address these concerns, the State Institute for Drug Research, Sirus, has assisted the Department of this work. Based on the SIRUS report and the municipal data, the Ministry concludes that it is not possible to arrive at an exact estimate of the proportion of the expenditure in the various service areas attributable to people with drug problems and/or psychiatric problems. The Ministry therefore finds that the proposed urbanity criterion is a good criterion for capturing variations in the cost of social services, including the indirect and direct costs of drug and psychiatry problems. The proposed model is a zero-sum game. This leads to a significant redistribution of municipalities between municipalities. Municipalities with some major challenges in the drug and psychiatry sectors, such as alcohol and alcohol, alcohol and alcohol. Sandefjord, Fredrikstad, Haugesund and Verdal, are in isolation negative. The Christian People's Party does not feel comfortable with such a situation. Ideally, the introduction of new income systems that generate so much redistribution should not be based on zero-sum games. For this reason, I am pleased that the introduction will take place over five years, and that the first-year impact coincides with an increase in the overall framework of the local government sector by over DKK 6 billion. Having said that, I would like to stress that the proposal for a new cost key has a distribution effect that meets the possibility for a number of larger municipalities to provide a better offer to their citizens. That's good! The Christian People's Party is concerned that we do not introduce a new income system for the benefit of some municipalities, at the expense of others. The Christian People's Party therefore asks the Ministry to review the consequences for municipalities that are particularly vulnerable to the proposed changes. We ask the Ministry to compensate such municipalities for exceptional expenditure through the discretionary means, unless other changes outweigh the losses caused by the introduction of the urbanity criterion. Furthermore, we ask the Government to return to the urbanity criterion in the follow-up to the work of the Income System Committee. In particular, it is important that this sample assesses whether and how objective criteria can capture particularly large amounts of drug and psychiatry expenditure, regardless of the size of the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e607	I would first of all like to commend the case spokesman, Reidar Sandal, for the way he has ordered the committee setting to St.meld. No 6 for 2003-2004 on. He has also done a thorough and tidy job here today in terms of content and procedures. The centre party shares the Workers' Party and SV's approach. This is a big deal. It involves radical changes in the income system. It is a matter that the ministry should have gone through more closely to ensure a better proposal in the 2005 municipal proposal. There is no doubt that many municipalities now face major and increasing challenges when it comes to drugs and psychiatry. The government's lack of follow-up to the psychiatry plan reinforces these challenges. We find it striking that the government, which was asked to file a separate case, comes back with an identical proposal, with the same very unfortunate effects that the majority rejected in June. And it's a direct alarming fact that today's Progress Party is securing multiples for a setup that the Progress Party was in favour of rejecting in connection with the municipal proposition in ours, and which they went on so late as in October. The system involves a gigantic and systematic transfer to the very largest cities. And the scheme means that cities that today get big city tips because they have special challenges, no longer get them, for example. Drammen, Skien, Fredrikstad and Arendal. They're losing on this conversion, and it's giving biased effects to municipalities that the committee's gathering was busy in ours, for example. Haugesund and Verdal. So if we look at the table on page 32 and the following pages in the message, we can read that there are 13 states that give up nearly 330 million. kr. From Eastfold it goes 30 million. NOK 25 million from Hedmark. NOK 17 million from Uppland. SEK, from Buskerud 23.5 million. NOK 28 million from Vestfold. kr, from Telemark 36 mill. NOK 17,5 million from East Agder. NOK 13 million from West Agder. NOK 13 million from More and Romesdal. NOK – of them, it's SEK 7 million. kr i minus for Kristiansund. The three Northern Norwegian states are paying a total of 100 million. kr. So when it comes to North-Tronde Teams, 23 out of 24 municipalities are drawn, and Verdal loses 5 million. kr. So 13 counties are almost 3,000 million. kr. Yes, we know that a lot of these millions involve difficult cuts in many municipalities. Then there are some states that have corresponding gains. For Hordaland, we can read that the profit is 58 million. kr, while Bergen receives 72 million. kr. That means there are municipalities in Hordaland that lose funds. For Oslo, the corresponding positive number is 188 million. kr, and for Akershus County 54 mill. kr. When Rogaland is involved, the gain is 20 million. kr, of which Stavanger gets 13.5 million. SEK and Sandnes 9 million. kr, but Haugesund loses 6.5 million. kr. Of course, the main challenge is more funding for the local government sector, but we have a government that is working to reduce public sector growth than private sector growth. And we have a municipal minister who actually thinks that the municipalities should have had less money for next year, and that wasn't particularly pleased with the budget agreement. The center part would have liked us to have kept a capital seat and a big city seat. We thought that showing understanding told all about how incomplete this new key is. We regret that the Labour Party did not put its foot down in this matter in the budget negotiations. But we are most sorry that the government party is so steep on a key that they must see has very different effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e628	The cost key for social services in the income system is a repetition of which the Storting has been busy for several years. Local government expenditure is not well enough captured by today's income system. We could be a few of them about that. Without a doubt, the government's proposal involves undesirable distribution effects. Many communes with very big challenges before drugs and psychiatry will come out badly. That's why the Labour Party believes that the Government has to do a much better job than what's been done in this paper. The use of the urbanity criterion, i.e. the weighting of the population, willfully dispel. In addition, there will be huge economic impacts for some municipalities in a relatively short time. The challenges in the area of drugs and psychiatry are not just a problem for the big cities, so it is strange that the government is emphasising the introduction of a cost key that only the biggest cities are facing. Several medium-sized cities and municipalities also face major challenges in this area. The Workers' Party's conclusion is that the Government's arrangement is not good enough. The proposal also did not have general acceptance in Kommune-Noreg. And it's important that we make a scheme that is initially accepted in the vast majority of municipalities that have these major challenges in the field of drugs and psychiatry. The Council of State should have understood that the arrangement she presented in connection with the municipal proposition in May was not good enough, as Stortinget asked for a new one and had a case for this. Therefore, I am surprised to note that the Council of State comes back to Stortinget with the exact same arrangement she made in ours. It's very special, and it's also quite arrogant. Of the 434 municipalities in the country, 368 municipalities will lose out on the conversion proposed by the Government, which today will have several municipalities in the Stortinget. On my side of the country, all the municipalities of Vestfold, with the exception of Larvik, will tap. In Buskerud only the municipality of smoke will come out on the positive side. All the other municipalities in Buskerud will lose. In my own state, Telemark, all the municipalities will be losers. And worst of all, the municipality of Skien will come. The municipality of Skie was one of the municipalities that got to take part in the urban initiative in 2003 due to the major challenges. in the care and psychiatry. The representative Kari Lise Holmberg knows this city well. She has our spokesmen in Skien, and was one of the drivers for Skien to take part in the big city in 2003. Now she has performed a political saltomortal and supports this delete craft that adversely affects all the municipalities in the county from which she is elected. I want to illustrate how a municipality like Skien will come out like this. Ashes. Both municipalities are similar to the population. When it applies to the Asker living conditions index, it is low, while it is slightly higher in the Ski. There's a clear indication that the social costs of Asker are relatively low compared to Skien, and it's quite incomprehensible to me that the government party and the Progress Party in this case are completely disregarding this objective life-style index. When it relates to the income level of these two municipalities, Asker has about 250 million. kr more in income in the year of the Ski. The cost key proposed by the Government will be disabled so that Ashes will receive approximately 15 million. kr more to cover social expenditure, while the ski, which has significantly lower tax revenues and higher social expenditure, will come out with a loss of about 10 million. kr. This means that the Government's arrangement is too bad, and that it is characterized by a random, low-passproof system. I have a lot of understanding that Oslo and Bergen have great challenges in this area, i.e., in the area of rushes and psychiatry, and so do we in the Labour Party take the height of our approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e649	I would like to stress that we currently have a new cost key for social assistance expenditure in the municipal sector. It's not a cost key that's just about drugs and psychiatry, but it's within the social welfare key that drugs and psychiatry are spending on specific expenses in the municipal sector, and it's quite well documented in the material that's in St.meld. No 6, where it's clear that over 50 pst. of the social assistance costs we have today can be attributed to those with drug and psychiatry problems. Work on this criterion has a long history. The Rattsø Committee was about the problem and did not find any good solutions at that time. So after the Stortinget had turned down on parts of the Rattsø committee, it became a worse solution for some of the municipalities that had major problems, worse than they had expected. There were three areas in which a broad majority in Stortinget said it was not done a good enough job, and one had to come back to. One was the dispersal criteria, the other was the addiction and the psychiatry question, and the third was the question of climate. The first two criteria have been identified. One was added, and the other changed in 2001, which in turn meant that several of the municipalities that had documented their problems related to drug use and psychiatry and the lack of criteria for it actually came out in a worse situation for 2001 from a municipal economic point of view than they had been in the past. So there were elections by the political majority in the Storting, and there were elections by the Government, if not to address this question. And let me apologize for not being able to take to heart the criticism of the Workers' Party's speakers that it's done a bad job, or that it's not good enough, when I know what the history of the Workers' Party has to work on this question. The working party has repeatedly been instructed by the Storting to answer the question when they have been in government, but they have not done so. When I became the Council of State, there had been a decision on spring related to not agreeing with what the Right primarily wanted at that time, but where a broad majority had otherwise been given the Workers' Party to investigate the issue of drugs and psychiatry. It had not been lifted by the government from the decision in the five months – six months almost – to start this work that they now believe is not good enough. Therefore, I must be allowed to stress that I am not sure that the will has been as great as the apparent one in this room. What has been experienced is that there have been changes in criteria that have weakened the situation, because there have been no other criteria. So this is introduced, and you say no, these criteria are not perfect, but there are almost no criteria in the income system that are perfect. Without problems, before the summer, the Storting adopted criteria that indicated changes to agriculture and the environment, and which I would say are not perfect. Among other things, the municipality of Kautokeino receives a large payment for a very large area, which does not necessarily have the same parallelity to the expenditure that the area actually gives them, because of the type of criteria that have been introduced. It's always the way that when we introduce criteria, it won't be symmetric so it hits everyone who might have a problem in this area. That's why I think it's absolutely right that the majority of the population specifies, namely that municipalities that have problems, but that are not captured by the criterion that has now been put in place, can actually get compensation through discretionary means to ensure that they also have an opportunity to provide good solutions. But from there to say that this is not a good criterion at all, and that it does not have professional coatings, is completely wrong. It has a professional coating. It has been introduced because there is a consistency in the regression analyses between the size and the costs of drug use and psychiatry. So there have been some other changes in this criterion that are not about drugs and the psychiatry issue, but are about updating the criteria related to today's actual situation. Under the unemployment criterion, the weighting between the young unemployed and the older unemployed has changed. Young unemployed people have lower weights than older people, despite the very often unearned rights of the young unemployed and therefore a higher cost of the social budget than an older unemployed person. This is because the young have nothing to do with social assistance. So there's a change in weight because of the number of immigrants. Over the past nine years, since the last time analysis of this importance has been carried out, a different society has been developed, where immigrants have a greater importance in relation to the social aid costs we have in the municipal sector. It is also important to see that there are a few other things that are done within this, than just in the matter of drugs and psychiatry. So I want to say a few things about some of the posts that have been held here. So when you change the weighting of criteria, you'll always be able to make a statement similar to what the chairman of the municipal committee just said, that you can list a number of municipalities that, because of one criterion, get a redistribution compared to the previous one. But the question must initially be, was it fair as it was? This is primarily about distributing the growth of free income in a slightly different way over the years to come. And here I think Per Sandberg made a good point, by setting up what, for example. the growth of free revenues for part of those municipalities has actually been measured to be in 2004. When we then measure it up against a redistribution that will take place over five years, which is the total effect, not only in 2004 – which are examples that have been given here in the debate – I must be allowed to say that I am a little surprised by the great words, a little surprised by the pressure on this. I think it bears quite a bit of a mark that you're looking for other things than in a way to discuss whether we've made good objective criteria or not. Then there is a question of taking the political point that today's distribution must be correct and that another type of distribution must be unfair and unfair. Another post has been made here by the rapporteur, who has always underlined the tax authorities. Some people get on top, but now it's like we've been listening to another kind of income balancing for next year, which in that case will change some of those images. The municipality of Asker, as I understand it has been the municipality that seems to have received too much money, is among the municipalities that will have this evened out next year if the proposals that are now out for consultation are adopted when they arrive at Stortinget. In addition, I think it is a strange starting point when you talk about objective criteria and at the same time also guarantees that Oslo and Bergen will get money. There are several parties that have initially gone out and said they're against these criteria, they're going to have objective criteria, but Oslo and Bergen are at least going to get the same amount of money. But are we going to make the criteria to make sure Oslo and Bergen get that money? Or are we going to create criteria that are the basis for the objective criteria to be pretty comprehensive? We can always disagree if the distribution is correct or not. I agree that there may be political differences in distribution. One can wish, as a majority of the UK population has done, to have district policies in place, through, for example: to have a North Norway grant. I think that is quite honest and honest. But I think it is a bit surprising when the same representatives who say that you have to have objective criteria, now add that the Stortinget has decided that more municipalities will receive a big city grant than the government proposed and had as a professional basis when we presented the municipal proposal for 2003, that the expansion of the number is now in a way raised to be professionally correct. It was a political decision negotiated between the government parties and the Progress Party in the negotiations on the Stortinget. There was no professional basis for setting up the municipalities, but it was part of the political negotiations. I believe that initially no more negotiation should be done on such matters and the kind of objective criteria should be introduced. In the last of the posts that have been held, we talk about this not having general acceptance. In fact, there is a problem that the income system, as it is without this type of criteria, does not have general acceptance either. The income system has not been generally accepted after Rattsø because some changes have not been made that would have been necessary, but were not thought to have been well established. This and a change in corporation tax and revenue balancing to next year will be the main means of resolving long-awaited issues, which need to be clarified, just to balance what tasks and issues have been solved. Let me say something about the example that is used related to Asker and Ski. Much of the focus has been on the urbanity criterion, whether it is correct or not. But it's not the urbanity criterion that most affects this area. It is the fact that regression analyses have shown that divorce no longer has such an explanation for social aid statistics. Of course, I'm not going to introduce the discussion that the Christian People's Party tried to bring here last week about divorces and costs associated with it, but it has a smaller explanation variable today than it had eight to nine years ago. There has been a professional review that shows that divorced people do not burden the social welfare budget as much as they did in the past. There are other groups that have taken over for these, and then it's not such a good criterion. It's this relationship and the fact that the Ski has fewer immigrants, which means that Asker and Skien get different results.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e685	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e688	Governments chose to talk a lot about methodology. She did not mention that it is actually such that half of the municipalities that are covered by the big city bill are losing on the cost key that the government has proposed. The ski will be at the worst, with an income loss of 10 million. kr per year. The cities were given a new boost in 2003 to compensate for high levels of drug and psychiatry costs. It's about to be phased out. The government will thus establish a system that will effectively frame users of municipal services in these big cities. The government will worsen the economy of Fredrikstad, Drammen, Skien and Kristiansund. So my question is: is the Council satisfied that these big cities are being economically affected by the system changes that are to be introduced now?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e695	These municipalities have never had a professional basis for having had major problems with their health and psychiatry. In fact, it is that they have received a big city grant, have been politically adopted and not proposed by the Government, with the exception of Kristiansand, who was well inside our first round, and who has a slight change. The others have been politically adopted as part of budget compromises at Stortinget, and there has been no professional basis behind it. And when you are made responsible for getting a worse offer in all these municipalities – well, if we do not adopt this, there are actually a number of municipalities that get a worse offer for next year, because we have already adopted other income redistributions related to the agricultural and environmental criteria before the summer, such as: Does the municipal economy in other municipalities weaken – so is the question: Does Reidar Sandal take responsibility for the fact that the municipalities will then receive a worse offer? This is going to be pure rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e700	The Council of State refers to the changes that have been presented as a kind of professionalism that, to put it that way, is highly political, and it marvels at SV. Clearly, how we weigh it is politics. It must be when the department has not used the criteria presented by the researchers, but the seas have sat on them. As the scientist says, less emphasis on unemployment and signs have not been seen. Now I'm not going to argue that the Council of State is absolutely right that divorce and separation may not cost as much as we thought before, but does the Council of State admit that how we set up the income system is about politics, and that there is no objective justice in this? There are different views about what is fair distribution, both between people and between municipalities. So it's like in my state, in e.g. Elverum, is 54 pst. by the beneficiaries of social assistance, young unemployed between 16 and 24 years of age. Nevertheless, Elverum loses 3 million. kr with this conversion. It is then very difficult to understand that the criteria of the Council of State have taken particularly well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e709	No, I don't see professionalism as elevated in relation to politics. But I think we're going to be honest when we add basic subjects, and when we apply basic policies. There has been a chosen policy from previous governments not to be concerned with entering drugs and psychiatry criteria. There has been a chosen policy from a large majority to decide to have additions based on district policy. Former state councils have said that there should be a better service provision in District Norway than in the cities. It's part of district policy, and it's been praised. I think we should be honest with that. In this context, I believe that our starting point is professional. Our starting point is that these costs actually exist. Social assistance is spent more on large cities than on other municipalities. And in terms of drug problems, especially in relation to heavy drug addicts in this area, this is a significantly greater burden in the big cities than elsewhere. No one is questioning.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e716	Governments referred to the proposed change as a slightly different distribution of free income. So we're talking about 13 counties giving up 330 million. And that of these is going to be 100 million. kr i minus for the three northernmost states! The councils process some professional advice that I think she can do little good for, and it's more low-key than she uses to be in this context. She recommends us to be honest. I agree that we should all be honest. I would also recommend that the Council of State be honest and say, "Does she think there is something that causes Skien, Haugesund, Fredrikstad and Kristiansund to have millions of income less than they have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e723	Based on that line, I will ask Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa to reply to the following in the 3-minute round later: I believe Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa that there was a reason that the municipality of Bergen would receive between 30 and 40 million. kr less this year, when in 2001 she voted in favour of new dispersal criteria, which also had the result that all the pluses that Rattsø had given to the municipality of Bergen were zeroed out immediately? It's a very similar problem issue, and I actually think that Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa should answer that. She sat in the government that initiated to change just that criterion and no other criteria that were on the list from the Storting at that time. If we're going to be on the level that we're going to ask, I have to ask, are the problems in the municipality of Bergen so much smaller than elsewhere? Every time we change the income system, we change income differences between municipalities. It's sometimes going to be right, and sometimes it's going to be unreasonable. And if it's an unreasonable outcome, we use discretionary means.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e730	Perhaps the President should have given Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa the opportunity to answer, but this is not the system here on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e734	With regard to the Council of State's line, one may feel tempted in this matter to believe that the Council of State is blinded by the results for Bergen. There has been a massive resistance from the local government sector to these criteria and from the local government's own organisation, which considered that further investigation should be undertaken. We can see that there have been significant questions on a purely professional basis. Previous governments did not introduce criteria in this area because they did not find sufficient professional criteria to give an adequate expression of the situation in the field of drugs and psychiatry. This state council has placed great emphasis on strengthening the economy of the big cities. So it must be noted that half of those defined as big cities according to the big city grant actually come out worse. Is it fair that the skis get worse, that the Drammen get worse, that Fredrikstad gets worse, that Kristiansand gets worse – in addition to a lot of other medium-sized cities? Although Oslo and Bergen come out better, it can hardly compensate that this can hardly be seen as a major urban action in the general sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e743	No, I'm not blinded by the results for Bergen, but I know them quite well, just as the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen will always be able to get the results for Finnmark County better than he can remember the other numbers that have been up. But initially, it was actually a total collapse that said the big cities have a problem, and that the rush and psychiatry problems are the biggest there. Promoting the proposal for a major urban grant did not mean that it would apply to all major cities. We said that even though we've invited seven cities to cooperate on urban policy, that doesn't mean that all the answers we give in urban policy are going to apply to all seven cities. They have different challenges, and there are different problems associated with them. Among other things, we see: that the problems associated with drugs and psychiatry are different. We believe that we have a good basis for saying that this is very similar to the population, because it's like 50 pst. of the heavy drug addicts in this country live in this city. It's a center that attracts these, and then it's no wonder that Oslo actually comes out well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e752	It is good that the Council of State admits that this proposal is based as much on a misguided policy as on the professional one. But I get a little confused, because when we make an article about drugs and psychiatry, which we've ordered because there are serious problems, the Council of State goes to the pulpit and says no, this is about social assistance. Now in retrospect, she says that these municipalities that get have very high expenditures on drugs and psychiatry, and therefore they have to get. It tells us that this is about an urbanity criterion that is going to hit the biggest cities. And then we got to talk about it, and that could be a good thing in itself, but you've had a starting point here that you had to cover the municipal expenditure on drugs and psychiatry, and there we see a lot of different outcomes. It's a problem. I wish the Council of State were a little more open to admitting the problems we're pointing at. At least SV is very open to recognizing the problems that big cities have, and we want to do something with them. But we are disappointed that the Council of State so unequivocally rejects that there are some other municipalities that have the same problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e761	I want to stress that there are two things that happen in connection with this social assistance cost key. When I underlined it in my main post, it was because this social welfare cost key is one of the four keys that concern the social issues of the municipalities within the income system. So we do two things at once. We update on the composition of social assistance clients, and then we introduce a new criterion called the urbanity criterion. I think it's important to stress that there are two different things. And then you could say that the reason we have the analysis now is because we have the addiction and the psychiatry. What you've done is analyse how the drugs and psychiatry problems are spreading into the community economy. They do it through this key. You've also looked at the composition of different parts of this key. We therefore believe, based on the technical – we have now carried out analyses of 26-27 different types of criteria based on this – that the consistency with how social assistance expenditure is actually generated in the municipalities is both about size and that there is too much emphasis on some of the criteria at an earlier time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e768	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e771	Karin Andersen and I, who represent SV in the municipal committee, are a good mix of big city and built, so we're kind of the ones that might be the best, at least we think ourselves, are able to look at this whole thing. There is one thing about this matter that is very simple, and there are two things that are very difficult with this matter, as it is presented to us. The simple thing is that apparently everyone at Stortinget is that the biggest cities are going to get more money, because Oslo and Bergen have absolutely indisputable large amounts of spending on drugs and psychiatry that are not covered when the money is distributed as the system is today. There's one thing that strikes me when some members discuss this. It's that they stand in the small municipalities around the country, where people don't understand what Oslo looks like, and not what Bergen looks like. In Oslo, we have more than half the country’s drug users, and in Bergen two years ago, we peaked overdose statistics on population — at European level. It's pretty heavy stuff, which was supposed to show very clearly that these two cities especially – and other of the big cities too – deserve more money, and don't have enough money to solve their problems. Here we come to the first difficult matter. It's that when someone is going to get more money, the other thing is going to get less. It's always hard. Especially when the money goes to Oslo, it's hard to get a majority for this at Stortinget, and especially when there's too little money in total in the municipal sector. It is good that there has been an extra SEK 2.2 billion in addition to what the Government proposed because of the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party – they should – but there is far too little money. Therefore, SV in its alternative state budget has DKK 4.5 billion more to the municipalities, if one sees our entire budget as a whole. So that's what's going to happen, in our opinion, in order to achieve a healthy local economy. Because when the recreational clubs on Søndre Nordstrand are laid down, when the kindergartens are also in Oslo – which is the Right Exhibition Window, and has been so for four years – when they get wealthier at the expense of what we are going to spend together on public transport, kindergartens, music schools and leisure clubs, we see what the Right Society actually looks like. It's less community, and it's mostly for those who have the most from before. This shouldn't come as a bomb for anyone. So we have NOK 4.5 billion more for the municipal sector. And then we're going to be on the second hard point. It is that this cost key presented by the Government has a completely incomprehensible distribution. It's okay that Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Tromsø come out better – we are, as I said, apparently agree. However, it is not understandable that Sandefjord, Fredrikstad, Skien, Haugesund, Kristiansand and Verdal come out much worse, while Asker and Bærum – who scamper their drug addicts into Oslo – will together receive 60 million. kr more when this system is fully implemented. I really believe that this is not material. That is why we in SV, and in particular in the Workers' Party and the Center Party, have asked the Government to come back with something that is a little bit more related. So the government can say as much as it will that some of the results that are now due to the redistribution come because we've updated some of the criteria – because of new numbers, because of new information. But in my opinion, it doesn't last. Should one first update some numbers, one should probably have updated all the numbers throughout the income system, so that in other areas, too, the numbers could have been up-to-date. Then maybe this entire game had looked a little bit different. In addition, we get a better and fairer tax equalization between municipalities. We'll get back to that in the next round. Therefore, in SV, it was reasonable to postpone the processing of a whole new system until the next round, while we fulfilled our promises to Oslo and Bergen – which we were together with the Workers' Party on in comments on the municipal economic proposition. We're not surprised at all at that Carl. I. Hagen has been trodden through this money to Oslo and Bergen, since the Progress Party failed Oslo in dealing with Rusreform 2. But we think it is foolish that the Workers' Party does not do as SV, and maintains its promise to Oslo of as much money as the Government has done. But that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e790	The size decided in the 2004 municipal bill that alternative models would be considered for the cost key for social services as presented by the Government in the above-mentioned proposition. The Labour Party agreed. Despite that, the government presented St.meld. No 6 with the same cost key as it proposed in the municipal bill, and without taking into account what the Storting had asked for. It's alarming. This is a very special way for the Council of State to deal with the Storting. In particular, the Council of State also rejects the request to submit proposals for a new alternative cost key by letter from it to the Committee. The Working Party agrees that increased resources that can flow to, for example: Oslo and Bergen are well justified. But let's look at increased revenues per year. built-in after the proposed new income key, which will be adopted, one would think that Oslo and Bergen should have the largest increases. But it's not like that. No, it's Bærum municipality that cuts the highest, and that gets the most. A total of 457 kroner per month. the population of increased income is attributed to Bærum. Was it intentional? Is Bærum the municipality in this country that has the biggest problems in the field of drugs and psychiatry? Nope. Because if we look at the KOSTRA numbers for Bærum, the municipality only uses 523 kroner net per. built-in within this field. It is low in relation to other large cities, such as Fredrikstad, who spends over 800 kroner, but now is going to lose millions of dollars with the new system. That's why this is going to be unfair. Another example is the municipality of Kristiansund. Kristiansund municipality loses 7 million. kr. That's the same sum that they've gotten into the psychetry escalation plan-- minus seven plus seven is zero. Then there won't be much strength in the rush and the psychiatry field for that municipality. The Labour Party believes that what is adopted tonight is totally unacceptable and asks the Government to prepare a new cost key. The fact that the Progress Party ensures that the Government has a majority in favour of its proposal is alarming. In the spring, the Progress Party was against the new cost key and would focus more on objective criteria. Five weeks ago, the representative Sandberg thought that the new key would give violent economic results in a relatively short time. Now he and the party are all of a sudden too. It's quite incomprehensible, even after the explanation he tried on here from the pulpit. But it's not uncommon for that party. A number of municipalities are injured by the proposed cost key, without any cause whatsoever. Those who are the lowest on the living conditions index are the ones who lose the most. This must be contrary to what was intended, believes the Workers' Party. We believe that the Stortinget had taken the municipalities seriously, the matter had been put at risk, and we still had today's system of metropolitan supplements for the large municipalities that get this today, as well as maintaining the capital supplement until a better system was in place. We believe that all reasonableness suggests that we should have spent more time putting in place a system that has legitimacy in the municipalities. Now we get a system that even the majority, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, think needs to be complemented with beauties from day one. It's a little bit of a system! All the municipalities in Østfold come out minus the conversion – a total of 30 million. kr. At the same time, all the major cities in Eastfold – Fredrikstad, Sarpsborg, Moss and Halden – have high expenditures in this area. The same municipalities have a bad impact on the living conditions index. This means that the municipalities that get into poor living conditions are getting less money than municipalities that get out well on the living conditions index. This is when the Workers' Party believes that it will be totally impossible to adopt such a system as has now been proposed. The representative Sandberg tried to explain why it was now acceptable to accept the system adopted tonight. But it's actually like if you put more money into a system that's crooked, it just becomes even more crooked. It won't be fairer for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e820	The current social assistance key in the income system is based on analyses of data that are 10 years old. When the criteria were established, not all the costs of drug use were included in the calculation of the cost key for social services. This cost key is what the government is proposing to change. This is done because it captures the expenditure needs of municipalities to a lesser extent than in the past and because new criteria and instruments have been found that explain the same expenditure needs to a greater extent. It is obvious that in a general conversion of parts of the income system for 434 municipalities, it will be winners and losers. The most important thing is to have criteria that have as much covariance as possible between the criteria themselves and the costs of the municipality. It has the government's new cost key for social services. After extensive use of regression analysis, it has been found that the cost key must include an urbanity criterion. It's defined here as population raised to 1.2. Otherwise, the weighting between the other criteria has changed slightly, and this regression analysis has put far less emphasis on signs and singleness than before. But once again, this is done because it is this new system that explains, as far as possible, the social aid costs of the municipalities. Nevertheless, the criticism has been massive. The Labour Party, closely followed by the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, wants everyone to oppose the introduction. They just don't have an alternative to today's system or to the new one. When the same batches are not members of the current cost key, this reminds more of decision-making refusal than of good political craftsmanship. The socialist trio takes care of the easy solution and asks the ministry to develop new criteria once again. The idea is that new criteria should be used to identify, without exception, the costs of drug use, psychiatry and other social problems for municipalities. Of course, that will never happen. As I said at the outset, the conversion of the income system for the municipalities of the country will always lead to winners and losers. I have no problem admitting that municipalities like Verdal, Fredrikstad, Drammen and Kristiansund are losing on the conversion. But the interesting thing for these municipalities is not what they lose in isolation on the conversion, but what they're left with net. For example, Verdal, who is struggling, gets 14.4 million. kr in increased revenue next year – a formidable increase. Fredrikstad, who is struggling, gets 99.1 million. kr in increased revenue next year. The drape, which wears, gets 87.5 million. kr in increased revenue next year. And then finally, Kristiansund, who's struggling, gets $22.9 million. kr in increased revenue next year. This is a formidable increase for all the municipalities that I have now mentioned. Then it is with great wonder that I record that the socialist trio spends most of its time pointing out how difficult these municipalities get if the Government's proposal is adopted. The truth is a completely different one. Overall, they're getting far better. I can point out that the criteria here create winners and losers, but the total is very good with the Government's proposals. In addition, when we add that municipalities that, even after an increase of SEK 6.6 billion in incomes to the municipal sector, will get worse, will be compensated by discretionary means, I am convinced that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party are doing the right thing now when we adopt new criteria for social services. Otherwise, of course, it is self-contradictive when SV is talking hot about the big cities and at the same time has tried to weaken their economy twice, for example. in the case of new rules on scattered housing and new agricultural criteria. But to say what the representative Holmås said, that's what it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e837	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e840	So far in the debate, there have been few, if any, objections to the starting point of this case, namely that municipal expenditure on drugs and the psychiatry field is significant, and that expenditure is relatively higher for large municipalities and for municipalities that have major challenges. There is also a broad consensus that we have a very complex and difficult income system, and that within this system there are injustices. Then, too, the 1993 income system is mature for change. A lot has happened in society in the last ten years. I understand that there is resistance in this matter. When old biases and past injustices are to be covered by the redistribution of funds, some are to be harmed. Someone has to get less than before when others get more than before. We are well aware of this from the Rattsø debates. When, as in this case, there is also doubt about the correctness of the changes, there is reason to stop before the clear signal is given. There is no doubt that the consultation round confirmed the Committee's view. In isolation, some municipalities get poor out of the changes, despite having a lot of stress in the rushes and psychiatry field and generally getting poor in living conditions indices. It is important to note, as Peter Skovholt Gitmark said, how this turns out isolated – but what about the whole? The working party showed, among other things: to my home town, Skien, which – and I agree – is a good example of the challenges that this particular case presents. In Norway, we have had no previous tradition of pursuing a clear urban policy. Now it's taken the most into account of the country's capital and the country's largest cities, and I don't think it's actually a moment too early. Sigvald Uppøen Hansen does well when he describes my support for this matter as a ‘political saltomortal’, for the big city grant that we have had to date is based on a political discretion. In this case we have objective criteria – we can like it or not! I have no problem complaining that Telemark is generally coming out badly, and that the ski is especially coming out negatively. However, when introducing the new cost key, it is worth noting the following three factors: First, changes in the cost key shall take place over five years. They don't come overnight. Secondly, I am pleased that the majority is now saying that exceptional discretionary means should be provided. [[President clubs]] And thirdly, the matter is going to the Income System Committee... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e859	Now it's time – that's the third!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e863	It has been said from this pulpit today that it is alarming that the Progress Party supports this conversion of the income system. I would like to remind you that it is a fact that the expenditure needs of municipalities relating to the drugs and the psychiatry area are not at all well caught up in today's income system criteria. In St.meld. No 6 is therefore added to new cost keys for financing municipal social assistance expenditure in the field of drugs and psychiatry. The social assistance cost key is substantially changed by, inter alia: a new urbanity criterion is introduced based on population. The Progress Party has supported the Government's views in St.meld. No 6 on the new cost key for social services in the income system for municipalities. Both the State Institute for Drug Research, SIRUS, and previous research show that there is a clear trend that larger municipalities have a higher spending requirement than smaller municipalities in relation to drug use and psychiatry. The party of progress shares that view. We believe that this is a proper observation and assessment of the situation, and therefore support changing the distribution key in a way that takes better account of these documented facts. We see that social assistance expenditure varies a lot from municipality to municipality, but trends are clear that the cost per capita. The population is increasing by the population. Municipalities with less than 5000 inhabitants have an average of NOK 900 in social assistance expenditure per person. The population, Oslo has NOK 3000 in expenditure per year. The population, so the national average is $1,400 per person. the population. I see that the proposal involves a substantial distortion of transfers from small to large municipalities. The concrete consequences are that 66 municipalities in the country will get more money in this area, while the rest will get less. However, it is stated that a loss of more than NOK 200 per person. in the case of most municipalities, the population will be fully covered by the discretionary means, and the implementation will take place gradually over five years, so that the rash will not be as large as it may immediately appear. In addition, I would like to refer to the newly reduced income committee to review and evaluate the income system for the municipal sector and to give up by July 2005. In this context, it must be possible to expect a thorough professional review of the income system for municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e876	Finally, the Storting manages to adopt new cost keys for drugs and psychiatry. For very many years, Stortinget has asked for it and asked for it in relation to many governments. We have adopted criteria for scattered housing, the environment and agriculture. I am therefore pleased that the government has made it clear that no one has made it clear before, namely to come up with criteria that capture the problems that are special to the largest cities. It is time for old skepticism in the disfavor of the larger cities to be corrected. Oslo, Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim have more problems than other municipalities. People with problems tend to pull into the big city's hideout. Oslo today pays too many drug addicts from other municipalities and spends about twice as much money in the area of drugs as the rest of the country combined. It is time for Oslo to get paid for it. Some are critical of the very urbanity criterion. Someone gets more money, who shouldn't have had it, and someone doesn't get money, who should have had it. It's not easy to find a system that's completely waterproof. The proposed cost key is based on professional analysis and shows that a high proportion of people with drug problems and psychiatric problems primarily have a cost-generating effect on the social aid budget. It is therefore relevant to establish the income system to compensate municipalities through the social services sub-cost key, as proposed by the Ministry. No one has been able to create a better system. When the Workers' Party and SV now oppose these changes, they may be suspected of not wanting to. It almost sounds as if the representative Karin Andersen thought that only Oslo's citizens could be taxed a little higher, so they could continue subsidising other municipalities' drug clients applying for Oslo. And the Workers' Party could do something about it when they were in government. Redistribution is always difficult. If someone gets more, someone gets less. After listening to some of the comments today, I think it seems that not everyone has got it with them. Ole Brumm exists not only in the adventures, but also in this hall, it sounds like. So a small matter in the end: it has somehow crept into the understanding that the capital grant was introduced to cover part of Oslo's spending on drugs and psychiatry. It's wrong. The capital grant was created in 1998 as a partial compensation for Oslo's loss of income by making the corporation tax state-owned. Company taxes are still state-owned. Therefore, the capital grant should not be stepped down in line with new criteria, but rather seen in conjunction with what is hopefully soon to come, municipal corporation tax. But that train has probably gone, and we have to take the descent in line with the escalation of the criteria. It is better to have objective criteria than own specific grants.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e889	Unlike the Council of State, which would not answer my question, I will answer her questions to me. I was busy with whether the state council thought it was right that Skien, Haugesund, Fredrikstad and Kristiansund miss next year's million incomes that they have this year. So just for these four municipalities, it's going to be 26 million. kr. She's taking Bergen up against these four municipalities. Let me say, I've had more opportunities than many to just get into the challenges of the field of drugs, both in Bergen and in Oslo. There is no doubt in my mind that Bergen and Oslo need extra funds to meet their challenges. So when she asks if I think Bergen needs less money, the answer is definitely no. I'm assuming that she couldn't have avoided registering the Center Party's involvement in a better local economy - we're proposing $4 billion more to the next year than the Government's arrangement - for the restructuring of debt, for a escalating plan to go over several years to correct the imbalance, and an commitment to securing more funds to get this done, for example. by introducing tax on dividend dividends. Only alone would result in several billions, with a completely different distribution and bet on the community than today. The centre party said in ours that on the one hand we agreed to send this case back, but on the other hand we did not overlook the fact that it could be so difficult to find the right criterion on this particular field that the most correct and fair thing in the future would be a capital and a big city tip – a big city tip directly to the challenges in the social field. I think the debate today has confirmed that it can be fairer to do so in the way that the government is now proposing, where the Council of State refers to professional advice – professional advice that she knows we can all have such doubts about, because the professional authorities are doing it themselves. It is somewhat more loud towards the Workers' Party. I have a great understanding that Sylvia Brustad answered such a question that it was difficult to introduce such a fair criterion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e900	I think it is relatively historic that today a separate urbanity criterion is adopted in the income system, which means that the big cities will finally be compensated for additional expenditure related to drug and psychiatry problems. The size has a long practice of running district policies through the income system. It is not unreasonable to transfer funds from cities to districts. There might be a lot of reasons for that. However, the problem arises when redistribution goes so far that the population of the big cities is offered a lower offer, such as: to drug use and psychiatry problems, as is the case for the rest of the country. The size has long been familiar with and called for solutions to the problem of drug use and psychiatry costs. A broad majority has repeatedly called for a criterion that captures variations in this field. St.meld. No 6 is a good answer to the problem. The cancellation message confirms a clear link between net expenditure per year. built-in for social services and population. Such extra costs put a great deal of pressure on the economy of the big cities. This has consequences in relation to the services that can be provided to people with high needs. The proposal promoted by the Government is far in the way of correcting this bias. As a representative from Hordaland and Bergen, I have been presented several times with this problem in the income distribution of the former Labour Party Town Council, which led Bergen up to the elections this fall. The system was presented as grossly unfair. The Labour Party even went out publicly and accused the municipal minister and the government for unfair treatment of the big cities. So has SV. What is then alarming is that the Workers' Party and SV do not support the redistribution they themselves have requested, both locally and here at Stortinget. The swindling operation is striking, and the voting today is really relatively clarifying. On the other hand, the working party and SV agreed on changes to the environmental and agricultural criteria and the criteria for scattered settlement, which in isolation are negative for major cities. So in total, the big cities have been down-prioritised in the income system of these two batches. I am glad that this will not be the result today. It is also appropriate to praise the Party of Advances in order to support the Government Parties in this Decision in accordance with the signals given earlier. In the vote and the debate, the Labour Party and the SV point out that the major cities in 2004 will receive the same amount of funding as this reform adds. But of course there is little relevance when only one fifth of the reform is phased in each year. It is new and very positive that a government has an active policy for the big cities. The metropolitan regions have around 2.3 million inhabitants. Like the districts, cities have special challenges, needs and opportunities. This applies to fields such as: care, public transport, culture, environment, housing and industrial policy, to mention something. Today's decision is one element in this. However, the whole of the country's metropolitan policy needs to be addressed on a broad basis in connection with St.meld. No 31 for 2002-2003. I hope that the Co-operation Government will also be able to make an impact on its policy, and look forward to the debate on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e921	I listened with interest to Per Sandberg's post. He came up with a lot of important issues for the municipal sector. He said so. that a number, perhaps several, of the municipalities have got too much in transfers. It is a rather eye-catching view when the same Sandberg, as late as in June this year in Stortinget, suggested that the municipal sector should be strengthened by DKK 1.5 billion for 2004 in addition to the government's proposal. I feel that this shows that there is no consistency in the Progress Party's policy in this area. The representative Sandberg also said that the matter of changing the income system, which we are now debating, is a difficult matter, and he tried to give a more contemporary historical explanation of the change that he and his party have undergone during the treatment of this matter. He claimed, among other things. that already in June he announced from this pulpit that he was mainly on the line with the councillor of Solberg and the founding fathers she had for her sight. I would therefore like to quote what the representative Sandberg said to the municipal report on 30 October this year after that St.meld. No 6 were presented and drawn during treatment. Mr Sandberg then made it clear that: ‘The government does not receive assistance from Frps to introduce a new cost key that only big cities serve’.The same representative further states: ‘The new cost key provides a huge economic impact in a relatively short period of time. This is an equivalent conversion to the follow-up of the Rattsø Committee.’ I feel that this fully shows that the Progress Party has thrown itself from the point of view to the point of view in one and the same matter in a short time, without there being any real basis for such a ham change that they have undergone.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e940	I'm a little surprised by some representatives who seem to believe that the criteria that the Government has presented now are somehow some kind of objective truth that should have corrected every possible bias from the dawn of time, to say it like that. I don't even think the Council of State agrees with that. I want to ask for a little bit of audacity in relation to that. Changes in recent years have gone in several directions. There has been a change in the timing of counting, there have been different criteria, a change in the tax rate — there have been many changes. The changes in agriculture turned out so wrong that Oslo, who had no agriculture, got quite a million dollars. So the accu-rat there I don't think Oslo would have had so much to complain about if it had been like that, but that bit was changed again, because it was unreasonable, right, and that must be reflected in the problems that exist. I ask for some respect for the fact that SV believes that Oslo and Bergen should have higher revenues than they get today, so we are not satisfied with the system that is here. I think it's going to have to respect that. The Council of State admits, everyone admits, that this is a little bit of a trick with different criteria, and you try to find something that hits, but it's quite wrong then, in many places. For example, we end up with Asker and Bærum getting a good chance of money, and I guess nobody can say with their hands on their hearts that it's very intrusive. So the council says they'll come back with an income distribution that'll be better, and it's SV very happy. But it does not depend on the fact that with a different distribution policy in general and a greater distribution across the municipal sector, where it is said that the welfare of drug users, for social clients and for those in need of psychiatry had been more important than giving tax relief in thousands, in tens of thousands and in fact even more than that to those who have a lot of money, and who live in this city, had also made a big difference. I had hoped that more people would have recognized that. Now the government has made that choice, and it's their privilege to do it. But it's not that it's absolutely necessary that all the money that's coming to Oslo, Bergen and other big cities that need to be good, necessarily come from other municipalities that have very bad advice. In fact, it is possible to distribute the large amount of community cake for the benefit of the municipal sector and Oslo and Bergen better than today. SV has a different proposal than the Workers' Party, and we want the proposals not to be presented to each other, but to be voted on separately. We want to vote in favour of our proposal, which gives a better distribution to Oslo and Bergen. It's important for SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e951	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1228]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e964	I take up the minority proposal from the Workers' Party and SV in case no. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e969	The representative Trond Giske has taken up the proposal he referred to. The President will then clarify a relationship with Storting's Rules of Procedure. Since the President has taken part in the debate earlier today, she will refer to Section 35 of Storting’s Rules of Procedure, which places certain restrictions on the President’s management of the meeting when he has taken part in the debate. The President is therefore asking for the consent of the Storting to allow us to derogate from that provision of the Rules of Procedure, so that she can direct the voting. No objections have come against it. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e1025	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9, 16, 18, 19, 34, 35, 36, 37 and 39, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e4277	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–6, 8, 13, 14, 15, 17, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 31, 32 and 33, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals for the creation of a fund for grants for ICT-related actions.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to implement a partial privatisation of State Consultant after it has been transformed into a limited liability company. This is done to focus on the market alignment of activities so that State Consultants can develop to become sustainable. It is assumed that a non-negligible share of the shares is sold and that capital is collected for the stake.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to refer as soon as possible to the consequences and background of the removal of the ‘knock point’ of the State Pension Fund and to the basis for not making the change applicable to those who were already pensioners, following the hearing of the pensioners’ organisations.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to refer the matter to the Stortinget for the closure of the project opera in Bjørvika as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e7544	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2, 21, 22 and 23, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e7547	I draw proposal No. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e7554	Proposal No. So 23 is subtracted. So we are left with proposals No. 2, 21 and 22. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government not to initiate a conversion of State Consultant into a limited liability company until the legal conditions surrounding the conversion have been reviewed and its own case whether this has been dealt with by the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to take a closer look at the geographical distribution of cultural resources in relation to population figures and to come back with proposals for measures to balance the differences between counties.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider providing funds for the refurbishment of the gym in order to facilitate the children’s and youth theatre at the Rogaland Theatre.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e7581	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with a separate case by 1 March 2004 on the restructuring costs of the conversion of State Consultant into a limited liability company.’ The Socialist Left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e7598	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with a proposal for extended maternity leave for fathers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e7613	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10, 11 and 20, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a possible change in the organisation of Centres against ethnic discrimination, the Equality Ombudsman and the Equality Centre for Treatment in the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to consider changing the percentage distribution between the three umbrella organisations managing the Free Fund funds so that the distribution is in line with the number of local teams in the grant scheme.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government, in consultation with the NRC, is asked to take action to achieve the objective of 50 pst. of all programmes with Norwegian-speaking languages, both pre-produced and directly sent, the text shall be spoken.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e7640	We shall then vote on the motion for a resolution. So let's start with area one.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e9655	The President assumes that the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e9669	We're gonna go further with area two.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e11186	The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party also want to vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e11199	There is then a vote on non-framework proposals for decisions under Framework Box 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e11224	The President expects the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e11237	So we're left with area 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e13040	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 42, from the Right Party and the Christian Party. The President proposes that the proposal be admissible even if it has been made after the time limit laid down in Section 30 of the Storting Rules of Procedure. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. Proposal No. 42 And from the right hand and from the Christian people, saying, ‘Frame area 3IIIConsequential powersCape. 320 General cultural purposesPost 73 National cultural buildings 211.3 million crowns’» This proposal replaces the chapter. 320 under Roman number III. A vote is then taken on Framework Area 3 with the amendment under Roman numeral III made by proposal No. 42. The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e13075	In this case, there is still a need to vote on non-framework proposals for decisions under Framework Box 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e13090	The President expects the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e13103	As far as III is concerned, the debate has turned into a transmission proposal. Accordingly, the proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government return to Stortinget with an assessment of whether the sale of the Norwegian film studio can be carried out so that the film studio can continue to operate before the sale is made.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e13115	During the debate, Mr Giske, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, put forward a proposal, and there will be a vote on this first. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2003 budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Crones320General cultural purposes 80A subsidy scheme for voluntary activities increased by 7000000 from NOK 18 075000 to NOK 25 075000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e13222	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e13741	The vote will take place on the proposal from May Hansen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by the meeting of 27 November 2003 of Odelstinget: «The government asks the Government to amend the law on limited liability companies and the law on public limited-liability companies and other laws governing the composition of the company’s board, so that the rules on representation of the equality law also apply to directors of limited-liability companies, private-owned limited-liability companies, public-owned companies and listed companies. Companies with more than 30 employees should have at least 40 pst. by each sex in its directors.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e13759	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Karin S. Woldseth on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 2 December 2003: ‘The Government is asking the Government to adapt the legal text in such a way as not to make a difference between marriages and marriages.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e13777	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 2 December 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to follow the development of the extension of marriage competence and the National Register Authority for the testing of marriage conditions, and to assess the impact of intention to prevent forced marriage, and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner by the end of this mating period.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e14257	A vote shall be taken on the proposal made by Mr Marit Arnstad, on behalf of the Central Party, from the meeting of the Odelstinget on 13 November 2003: ‘The Government is asking for an assessment of a future organisation of State Forest SF, SIVA SF, Statnett SF and ENOVA SF. Such organisation should be subject to the application of the substance of the State Enterprise Act § 4 and § 51 and § 53.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e14350	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Reidar Sandal on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 2, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party We vote first on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up proposals for a new cost key for social services in the Municipal Proposition for 2005. Until the new cost key can be put into operation, the current system of capital grants and temporary major city grants will be continued. 571 Item 60 for capital and temporary major city grants according to the same breakdown as used for 2003, but such that Oslo and Bergen are compensated at the level of 1st annual impact of the Government’s proposed cost key.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e14376	We then vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up proposals for a new cost key for social services in the Municipal Proposition for 2005. Until a new cost key can be used, the current system of capitalisation and temporary capital injections will be continued. The size gives the Government the power to distribute funds on top. 571 item 60 for capital and temporary urban additions according to the same distribution as was used for 2003. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e14397	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-2.ana.ud1618e14416	There is no record.
