ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e41	The representatives of Dagrun Eriksen, Kjell Engebretsen, Trond Helleland, Per Roar Bredvold, Ranveig Frøiland, Karita Bekkemelm Orheim, Bjørn Jacobsen, Kjetil Bjørklund, Trine Skei Grande, Per Ove Width and Hans Kristian Hogsnes, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Haakon Blankenborg on leave from 18 November to 28 November to take part in a trip to the reference group on cooperation with the parliaments of the Balkans, to Sarajevo and Belgrade from the Workers' Party Group on welfare leave of the representative Hill-Marta Solberg from 18 November until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. 2nd@item: inlistbox The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Nordland counties: Tomas Norvoll For Uppland County: Reidun Gravedahl
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e107	Tomas Norvoll and Reidun Gravdahl are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e112	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e117	I suggest Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e122	Mr. Øyvind Halleraker has been proposed as President-in-Office. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e130	The representative Heikki Holmås will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e134	On behalf of Karin Andersen and myself, I would like to propose measures to eliminate social dumping in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e139	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e157	Disarmament and non-proliferation have always been the focus of Norway, both with political authorities and with the Norwegian people. A poll from some years back showed that 92 pst. It was thought that Norway was actively working for a ban on nuclear weapons. Norway has strong popular movements and organisations engaged in the fight against nuclear weapons and other weapons of destruction. This is one of the most important questions in our time. We have a political and moral responsibility to keep it on the agenda and to contribute in all relevant international forums to the reduction, non-proliferation and elimination of this type of weapon. Now this interpellation was promoted in order to have a debate in the Grand Duchy before the consideration of this year's resolution by the so-called New Agenda countries of the UN General Assembly on a nuclear-free world. However, it was voted on 4 November, as far as I remember, and Norway abstained from voting, as it was last year – as opposed to under the Stoltenberg government, when we voted in autumn 2000 for a corresponding resolution. We believe that we should vote in favour of this year as well, and I would ask the Foreign Minister to justify why this did not happen. Of course, we do not remove nuclear weapons with UN resolutions. Nevertheless, positive voting gives important signals to the nuclear powers. This year it was particularly important in view of the further progress towards the 2005 Conference of Supervisors. We're in a critical phase. It is essential that all those who have an influence on further nuclear disarmament work help us to avoid a breakdown in non-proliferation work in 2005 and that the Non-Proliferation Agreement, the NPT, is continued and strengthened until 2010. Today, the NPT is the only multinational non-proliferation and disarmament option we have. The year’s NAC resolution attempted to ring the 13 nuclear disarmament steps taken by the 2000 Conference of Supervisors. And in that context, it is important to work for such resolutions – in a world of nuclear material on the way, nuclear material that can get in the hands of terrorists or unstable regimes. Indeed, the evening post and other media today write that it is stolen nuclear material in the Barents Sea, and it is among the things that are really serious in this regard. Therefore, this is also one of the major threats, also defined as part of Norwegian defence policy, security policy and foreign policy. We must fight against all kinds of weapons of destruction, chemical weapons, bacteriological weapons and nuclear weapons. But nuclear weapons and radioactivity still stand in a special position in terms of death and destruction. One of the most cruel acts in modern war history was the nuclear bombs that were released over Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August 1945. Only in Hiroshima did the bomb burn up 80,000 people in seven seconds. That's something we can't understand. In the decades that followed, tens of thousands more of those who survived this human slaughter have suffered a painful death because of aftereffects. The world was never quite the same after Hiroshima. The energy and strength of nuclear weapons, today thousands of times stronger than in 1945, is of a character we can barely grasp. By the way, it is important to be aware that the bombs that terrorist organisations can make will be something like the Hiroshima bomb, if they get hold of, among other things. uranium and plutonium. The very first atomic bomb narrowed in Los Alamos, New Mexico, July 16, 1945. That's when the researchers were working on a bomb to develop the new weapons of destruction. It was said that the sun rose twice that day – one time like a reddish-hot bullet, the other time with a giant click. That's how the nuclear race started. Uncontrollable proliferation of nuclear weapons and nuclear material is now probably the most acute threat to humanity, to civilization and to the environment on our planet. Today, however, the threat of nuclear war does not stem from major activization in a two - part world. It is there in the form of spread hazards to countries with unpredictable regimes. We should not underestimate the withdrawal of North Korea from the Non-Proliferation Agreement or the non-compliance of Iran and North Korea with the demands of the International Atomic Energy Agency. But the threat is also there because nuclear capability and fissile material after the fall of the Soviet Union can be out of control and, as I said, end up in the hands of terrorist networks, and for example. due to nuclear waste in North-West Russia, material which, in a given situation, may be used to produce so-called ‘dirty bombs’. Maybe there's a connection between the old and the new nuclear threats. The new threats have led more people to bring nuclear weapons to the defense doctrines. In addition, those countries that already have such weapons are unfortunately more willing today to use their weapons and use them in the fight against those who have acquired or are suspected of attempting to obtain weapons of mass destruction. We know that the United States is developing so-called "minukes". The representative Haakon Blankenborg said in an interview on 8 May this year: ‘We really have no other way to go in this field than the contract path.’ I think we can all join. The non-proliferation agreement is the most important instrument we have. When the agreement was extended indefinitely in 1995, the requirements for the supervisory process were reinforced by a set of ‘Principles and objectives for nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament’. Despite this, several important processes have stopped up through the 1990s. However, the 2000 Supervisory Conference was a breakthrough, with an action programme of 13 important steps or points. Unfortunately, we are already looking back in relation to 2000. So the steps go in the wrong direction. One of the 13 points was to bring about the early entry into force of the Test stop agreement. The United States does not want to ratify the agreement, and I will ask the Foreign Minister to continue the pressure I know Norway has on the Americans on this point. I know that Norway has played a leading role in preparing for the entry into force of the Test Stop Agreement, in particular in putting its main verification mechanisms in place. NORSAR at Kjeller – as the Norwegian centre for the verification of the agreement – does an important job. In the meantime, it is essential to continue the actual moratorium on nuclear testing. Among the 13 points is also a continuation of the START process and a strengthening of the ABM agreement. Now the U.S. terminated the ABM agreement, apparently in an interaction with Russia. In any case, if the parties wanted to move forward, it is important to continue the strategic stability that the ABM agreement contributed to ensuring. But with the ABM agreement, the START process also disappeared. There is also a reason, not least for us who live in Europe, to focus on progress in the construction of the tactical nuclear weapons on our continent. This is a European problem, which is also suitable for the NATO-Russia Council. NATO has also given high priority to non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament, both at the 1999 summit and in particular at the Prague meeting last November. Effective disarmament and non-proliferation may take place only if new production of fissile material ceases. Splittable material and surplus material must be subject to international control under the auspices of the IAEA. The non-proliferation agreement is something more than a non-proliferation agreement. A central element is the commitment of nuclear powers to disarmament and the removal of their nuclear weapons in return for the absence of nuclear weapons by new countries. In the action plan of the 2000 Conference of Supervisors, the nuclear powers also recognise their unequivocal commitment to disarmament and the elimination of nuclear weapons. It is important that we demand that they start work. Instead, several, each in its own way, have confirmed the role of nuclear weapons, as I said. An important step on the road, however, is the Global Partnership initiative of the G8 countries, an initiative against the spread of weapons of mass destruction and other destructive material. Here, the G8 countries put $20 billion on the table. For Norway, it is important that some of these funds are used to clean up nuclear waste in our neighbourhood, on the Kola peninsula in north-west Russia. The allegations that nuclear material has been stolen, substantiates and confirms this. I would therefore also ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to say a little about the Norwegian initiatives towards Global Partnership.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e210	The fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is a high priority task for the Government. The non-proliferation agreement for nuclear weapons is a key instrument in this work. The non-proliferation agreement, as stated by the representative Nybakk, was extended for an indefinite period in 1995. In our view, this decision meant that nuclear weapons states confirmed their commitment to achieving full nuclear disarmament, while those countries that did not have nuclear weapons abandoned their ability to obtain them. The final document of the NPT Monitoring Conference in 2000 specified the commitment of nuclear weapons States to disarmament. This action plan must be maintained. However, we have to admit that we have come shorter than we had hoped. Norway has therefore expressed impatience over the implementation of the 2000 Final Document in a number of international forums. The test stop agreement has not entered into force. The failure of the United States to ratify this agreement is very regrettable. I have presented this to the US authorities, and, as Marit Nybakk asks, of course we shall continue to do so. We have also regretted the failure of the Geneva Disarmament Conference to start negotiations on a production ban for fissile materials that can be used for nuclear purposes. Such an agreement is essential for further progress in nuclear disarmament. The picture, however, is not completely black. The Moscow agreement of May 2002 on a strategic partnership between the United States and Russia will lead to major cuts in the strengths of strategic nuclear weapons in the two countries. The United States has gone a long way in reducing its tactical nuclear weapons. It is important that the American-Russian dialogue continues and intensifys so that we can achieve further reductions. As the representative also points out, it is important to ensure continued progress in the area of disarmament in the run-up to the next non-proliferation supervisory conference in 2005. This has been strongly underlined by Norway during the preparatory meetings of this conference. Together with the Netherlands and Belgium, Norway presented in spring a document highlighting the need to strengthen the work of both non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament. The document will form the basis on which specific recommendations to the Conference of Supervisors will be negotiated. Non-proliferation and disarmament are two sides of the same case and must mutually reinforce each other. In the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva and in the General Assembly of the United Nations, Norway has demonstrated the need to maintain and strengthen the authority and integrity of the NPT. We have expressed concern that North Korea is saying that it is no longer bound by the obligations of the agreement, and underlined the importance of Iran cooperating fully with the International Atomic Energy Agency, the IAEA. Parts of Iran’s nuclear programme have been clearly unacceptable. In the report presented by IAEA Director-General Mohamed ElBaradei on Tuesday 11 November, he concluded, inter alia, that: Iran has for a number of years had secret uranium and laser enrichment programmes, contrary to its IAEA obligations. The IAEA’s various inspection schemes are one of the main instruments we have in our efforts to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Compliance with and respect for these arrangements is therefore essential. A number of resolutions on nuclear disarmament are presented in the UN General Assembly. Norway has supported a Japanese resolution that outlines a step-by-step and balanced process towards our ultimate goal, which is the total elimination of nuclear weapons. This resolution places great emphasis on the implementation of the commitments of the 2000 Conference of Supervisors, including: the issue of irrevocable cuts in nuclear arsenals, the entry into force of the Test stop agreement and the reduction of the importance of nuclear weapons in the security and defence policies of the States. The Japanese resolution brings together a great deal of excitement. The whole of 146 countries voted in favour of this resolution this year. This shows, in my view, that it is a constructive and cooperative platform for creating a new gift in the area of disarmament. The so-called New Agenda countries – Brazil, Egypt, Ireland, Mexico, New Zealand, Sweden and South Africa – have for several years promoted two resolutions on nuclear disarmament. From the Norwegian side, we support the main objective of these resolutions. At the same time, however, in our dialogue with the New Agenda countries, we have stated that texts of resolutions with unnecessary negative background and rhetorical bulwarks against nuclear weapons states are not the way to go. We want decisions that can bring together the widest possible resolution and thus provide a real basis for further progress, not score rhetorical points. It's the nuclear powers that have the key to new nuclear disarmament. This year too, the New Agenda countries adopted an approach that, in our view, does not serve the cause of disarmament. Our dialogue with the New Agenda countries showed that there was no willingness to take our views into account this time either. Most of the present and future NATO countries, including Norway, therefore chose to abstain during the vote on both resolutions. The United States, the United Kingdom and France voted against both resolutions. Canada, for its part, asked for a separate vote on a section on missile defence in the resolution on general nuclear disarmament and abstained from it, but voted in favour of the resolution as such. Strong markers in an area such as nuclear weapons can often be tempting. We are and must be impatient. A message that is too unyanced may, in effect, be counterproductive. If we are to succeed in strengthening the Non-Proliferation Agreement, it is important that, in the future, we work in a targeted way to ensure a positive outcome of the 2005 Conference of Supervisors. The final declaration of this Conference requires agreement from all parties to the State. It is particularly important to involve nuclear weapons in a constructive manner. Let me conclude by saying a few words about multilateral disarmament and non-proliferation. There has been a growing frustration that multilateral institutions are not functioning properly. This also applies to UN General Assemblys. In the summer, Norway participated in a debate on reform of the 1st Committee of the General Assembly, which is the Committee on Disarmament and International Security. Norway presented concrete proposals on how the work of this committee can be made more targeted and better met today's challenges. The proposals were well received. We are now working to keep up the momentum of this reform process. However, it is clear that it will not be enough simply to change the working method to the 1st Committee. We also need to tackle disarmament conferences in general, which have been paralyzed for more than seven years without the agreement of the members on a work programme. We need to look further at the United Nations Disarmament Commission. It is an institution that has been clearly marginalised in recent years. We must not least consider what can be done to strengthen multilateral disarmament and non-proliferation agreements. In this we will work closely with our allies and like-minded countries. We will continue the dialogue with the New Agenda countries and countries in the non-aligned movement. Our goal is to reach a comprehensive 2005 final document that provides the basis for further cuts in the nuclear arsenals, and a clear strengthening of the non-proliferation regime. The objective is clear: a world free of nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e244	I thank you for the foreign minister's answer, not least for his very last sentence, that our goal is a total elimination of nuclear weapons. There is a lot we agree on in Norwegian security and foreign policy as regards the work on disarmament in general, and nuclear disarmament and the fight against weapons of mass destruction in particular. I think this is also reflected in the Foreign Minister's reply. Nevertheless, I am still disappointed that Norway chose to abstain during the vote on this year's New Agenda Coalition resolution, and I would like to ask whether active attempts were made to reach agreement on a text. I agree that you should not be unyanced. It certainly does not serve this matter. Nuclear disarmament is a difficult area where it requires both intelligence and diplomacy in the further work. But this resolution pointed forward to the 2005 Conference of Supervisors and was very focused on securing the future of the Non-Proliferation Agreement. NAC tried, as I said in my first post, to call about the 13 steps of the previous supervisory conference – 13 actions that Norway has supported in virtually all the international contexts where disarmament has been discussed, and concerns have been expressed that there are not exactly rapid steps taken. With increasing terrorist threats and repeated terrorist attacks in addition to instability and unforeseeability, it is important to strengthen multilateral cooperation mechanisms in the area of disarmament. The new threats are actually becoming even more dangerous with uranium and plutonium being diverted. The cessation of nuclear weapons production and the clean-up of waste will be a major task of the disarmament regime. Securing and controlling nuclear material is at the core of the fight against terrorism, in my opinion. The non-proliferation regime becomes the very premise. We have to work within the framework of the NPT. Article 6 is also important here, because it must be an objective to reduce the political and military role of nuclear weapons. So we have to stress the disarmament aspect as much as the non-proliferation aspect. We're supposed to be results-oriented and not run declaration policies. But here, in fact, I believe that it is very much related, and also that this year's NAC resolution was considerably more balanced than previous resolutions, among others. by emphasising Russian tactical nuclear weapons, stressing North Korea's responsibilities and Iran's concerns. I would ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to continue the dialogue he mentioned in his reply, with the New Agenda countries, which, of course, also include our neighbouring country Sweden. I would also like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to contribute to the continuation of the non-proliferation regime by 2005 and to take practical and concrete action.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e255	I noticed with great interest how Marit Nybakk balanced his presentation. It gave a very broad approach to this issue. That's an approach I'm going to join up to. There are a lot of different elements that need to be seized. I noticed that the question of the New Agenda Coalition was one, but only one, of the elements that were highlighted there. We specifically disagreed on the two texts that were presented, which were good enough. We have been, as I said, in dialogue with the countries without reaching out with our views. I would like to stress that we have just voted in favour of the Japanese proposal, which brings together a broad support from the Member States of the House. That is why I believe that the very issue of nuclear reduction and weapons of mass destruction in general, as Mrs Nybakk said, is a question that goes far beyond a concrete assessment of a UN resolution text. That's the broad consensus that I'm going to emphasize for my part now. I particularly noticed what Marit Nybakk said about the danger of terrorists getting weapons of mass destruction. I fully agree with her that one of the main problems is just lying there. It also means that the work done in North-West Russia not only has an environmental dimension, but is definitely also a non-proliferation aspect and also the issue of terrorism, which is important. We are placing funds on the Norwegian side in North-West Russia. We know that we are small in the big context, and are therefore very pleased with the G8 initiative. Marit Nybakk has probably noticed that we, among other things. has a close and close relationship with, in particular, the president of the US Senate Foreign Affairs Committee, who is personally concerned with these kinds of issues. It's an alliance building that we from the Norwegian side put great emphasis on. I also noticed what she said about unpredictable regimes, and can only join me in the concern she expressed about these unpredictable regimes. It is very worrying to see how countries like North Korea and Iran have recently behaved. At least it's good to get facts up on the table, as we've now got in the case of Iran. That understanding, I think, is very important, and it tells us what kind of challenges we're facing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e266	The content of the security policy has changed in the last decade. Nevertheless, there is a broad consensus that some of the threats we generally face are: increased terrorist risk, including: from various fundamentalists international organised crime transport and misuse of radioactive waste and nuclear competence standard of living decline in post-Soviet areas and in former Eastern Europe As we can see, many of these challenges can be linked to Norway’s neighbouring neighbourhoods in the north. In other words, in the north there are some of the main safety policy challenges facing Norway. A hint of what could happen in the northern regions, we got the Russian submarine "Cursk" sunk into the sea in August 2000. A new insight into the same problem was given to the Norwegian authorities when the Russian nuclear submarine K-159 sank under a sleigh outside the Kola peninsula ten weeks ago. According to the Evening Post of October 20 this year, 190 such outsourced nuclear submarines are near Norway’s borders. K-159 is 200 metres deep, with two nuclear reactors on board. Actually, the reactors are off, but these two examples, which are only attached to submarines, give a little insight into what's going on. Both of these accidents point to the need for Norway to have knowledge and focus on what is happening in the north, even though the safety policy focus for very many others has moved further south. For Norway, this focus has not shifted, because we know that about 20 pst. of all reactors around the world are located in our northern neighbourhoods. We also know that there's a lot of split material, i.e. material used as fuel, located on the Kola peninsula. Still, it's a challenge to know exactly how much split material is there. It's at this point that transparency is so important. With increased transparency, we can better know what action needs to be taken, because we know what challenges we are facing. The Barents Sea is one of the world's most resource-rich and productive sea areas. The market for fish and other seafood is very sensitive to contamination, and not least to rumors of contamination. Fortunately, levels of radioactive contamination in Norwegian sea areas are low. These measurements are influenced by current activities and past emissions such as: from the 1950s and 1960s detonations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e292	I think the Foreign Minister's ambitious objective of a nuclear-free world is a fine framework for this debate. I also want to thank Marit Nybakk for travelling it. This is a theme that we can never let lie down, even if it takes longer to come up with solutions than we would impatiently want. I would like to take on board the fact that, in our view, the Non-Proliferation Agreement applies indefinitely. We must therefore continue to work to ensure that the obligation contained in the agreement is maintained. I am also very pleased that Norway shows impatience in the international forums in which we participate, so that we can work further towards a final solution. I share the view that it is a strong regret that the United States is unable to ratify the agreement. Nevertheless, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs did in part of his statement, I prefer to point out that the picture is not completely black. There are dialogues going on, and in particular I would like to mention the agreements between the United States and Russia, where we can participate constructively as far as North-West Russia is concerned. I think you should put a lot of emphasis on it. The Americans have gone very far in reducing their nuclear weapons, and we hope and believe that it is possible to achieve more in North-West Russia as well. I refer again to the work of Senator Lugar, and the good contact we have, both through the committees and through the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In this context, it's important to stress again that we don't get a solution here by using rhetorical tricks. In this respect, I fully agree with the Foreign Minister's recommendation and support for the Japanese proposal, which has gained wide disunity. Then we will see with goodwill and understanding much of the plans and objectives of the New Agenda countries, but I would like to stress that from the Norwegian side it has been quite right not to participate in the vote on the New Agenda countries. Let me just end with what the Foreign Minister also concluded with: the ambition is a world free of nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e303	The interpellation of the representative Marit Nybakk touches on an increasingly important theme in a global world, marked by war and unrest in many places. This theme is also addressed at an interparliamentary conference to reduce the threat of weapons of mass destruction held in Strasbourg next Thursday and Friday. I also come into the subject as a case rapporteur in the next case, as among others. are export controls and international non-proliferation cooperation. It is alarming that more and more unstable and undemocratic countries are in the process of acquiring weapons that not only threaten potential enemies but also countries that are not in conflict. This makes control of who has weapons of mass destruction, and who is acquiring them, increasingly important. This means that the international community is becoming increasingly responsible for ensuring that such weapons do not go astray. The Progress Party therefore considers it very important that Norway continues to actively support, through the international agreements on non-proliferation, efforts to prevent new countries, terrorist organisations and others from accessing technology and materially suitable to manufacture weapons of mass destruction in general. The Progress Party also looks with concern at developments in the development of nuclear weapons by North Korea and their threats to withdraw from international obligations in inspection, reporting and non-proliferation agreements. In this area, Norway must be clear and concise in view of the signals we give to North Korea and other countries such as the United Kingdom. Iran, which now seems to be able to develop nuclear weapons. This clearly shows that Iran and others do not take the signals that have been made in the past on the manufacture of such weapons against countries that initially do not have this capacity. It is important that Norway adopts a critical attitude towards Iran and assesses this against Norwegian participation in oil extraction, etc. in Iran. Given the current situation in the light of international terrorism and the links with this type of activity, it is also worrying that there appears to be countries that do not have concerns about involving other actors in the development of this type of technology. Countries that we cannot count as stable in terms of terrorist networks and activity seem to be getting knowledge and help from outside. Norway has and should continue to have a clear view of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, so that the world becomes a safer place for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e316	It is a well-known fact that there has not really been much progress in the UN in the last seven years when it comes to disarmament. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was also concerned with the important reform work being done in the United Nations, in which Norway is to take an active part. And, as it's been called by several here, a resolution from Japan actually got its approval. The title of that resolution is on a way to the total elimination of nuclear weapons. I'm very pleased to hear from everyone who has had the word here today, that there is a broad agreement that that is the ultimate goal. But whether we will or not, perhaps is the most important test piece with regard to the will for disarmament, at least in the United Nations system, the motion for a resolution that is leading from the so-called New Agenda countries. Norway has in three years both the voice of that proposal and the voice of late. If we look at some of the differences in the text, maybe we can figure out why Norway has changed its vision. One has gone to a not full of disarmament consistent line that at least we in the SV had hoped one could have been on. In 2000, the NAC Resolution stated that it expresses its deepest concern for humanity because nuclear weapons can be used. And then there's a new proposal, because one tries to move forward a few steps, that one's overestimated that the existence of nuclear weapons is a threat to the survival of humanity, if they're used, that's a clear sharpening of the text. It was among other things. Because we couldn't go well with that text. These two examples show how the New Agenda countries are trying to take small steps forward to negotiate nuclear disarmament within the UN system, by stretching the text from before. There is no doubt that the US is facing the challenge of dealing with the NAC resolutions. For Norway, it has certainly been a reflection of how far one could go in criticising a close ally within the UN's framework, which is a resolution text. Another restriction for Norway to support the NAC has been, and is, NATO's strategic concept, which insists that nuclear weapons are essential to the alliance in the foreseeable future. This contrasts strongly with the obligations contained in the Non-Proliferation Agreement. Here, the NATO country Canada led and voiced for the NATO resolution, and the Netherlands voiced as Norway, they left it, but said straight away that it did because the NATO resolution comes into conflict with NATO's nuclear strategy. The Foreign Minister answered me in question last year that Norway refused to speak because Norway found the texts from the NAC countries little capacity to produce nuclear disarmament. That's a little bit of what the Foreign Minister is about today. But I could imagine getting a comment from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on what this is all about in concrete terms. Is it a single point, alliance relationship, that binds us up, or is it the wording of the text that makes it difficult to agree to the NAC resolution?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e329	The work of creating peace between nations and peoples is one of the foremost tasks of our foreign and security policy. The Christian People's Party believes that the very existence of nuclear weapons poses a threat to humanity, and that the only real guarantee against these weapons is that they are wiped out and never used or produced again. The agreement on non-proliferation of nuclear weapons is the cornerstone of international disarmament and non-proliferation. It is the only formal obstacle to the international proliferation of nuclear weapons, with the aim of promoting international stability without nuclear weapons. The agreement thus constitutes a support bar in the global security image. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the Non-Proliferation Agreement is still under pressure, and we support the objectives of the two New Agenda coalition resolutions that one needs a political revitalisation of nuclear disarmament work. The Christian People's Party is aware that several draft resolutions on nuclear disarmament are being discussed at the sessions of the UN General Assembly, and notes that Norway chose this year to abstain from voting for the New Agenda resolution. Progress has been made in the area of disarmament and non-proliferation. Over 60 years after the first nuclear weapons were detonated, there are today eight states that have nuclear weapons, about thirty at the time. We can certainly say that the Non-Proliferation Agreement has helped to reduce the number of new nuclear weapons states. No other international agreement has more members than this, only India, Israel and Pakistan are outside. Despite positive trends, there is reason to be concerned about the future of the Non-Proliferation Agreement. The main threat is non-compliance with non-proliferation obligations, and we call for greater progress in the area of disarmament. We see a lack of implementation and follow-up of the 13 steps adopted at the 2000 Conference of Supervisors. North Korea's announced withdrawal from the agreement is alarming, as is the question of Iran's nuclear programme. It is particularly worrying that the United States too has a lack of progress in the area of disarmament. The test stop contract was rejected. The ABM agreement was dissolved last year, with the START process as well. The Christian People's Party welcomes the conclusion by the United States and Russia of a new agreement, the so-called Moscow agreement. But the main problem with this agreement compared to previous agreements is that it is too vague. It is also worrying that the United States is developing new types of nuclear weapons such as ‘bunker busters’ and that the new law on arms programmes requires the lifting of the old ban on small atomic bombs, called ‘minukes’. If leading nuclear weapons states are turning their backs on contract-based arms control and multilateral agreements, this is not a good promise for the future of the non-proliferation agreement. The arguments for obtaining such new and varied weapons are that the threat picture has changed and that combating new opponents requires this. The danger is that the atomic threshold is lowered by the fact that others will also acquire such technology and that the threshold for the use of such ‘minus’ may be lower. Then we haven't got a safer world. The only way to make the world safer is through internationally committed cooperation. There is reason to commend the Norwegian authorities, who have been the perpetrator of several questions. Norway has, inter alia: We have been critical to the United States of America in terms of the trial discontinuation agreement, we have expressed concern about ‘minukes’, and we have expressed ourselves against tactical weapons and the control of fissile material.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e344	Despite the fact that there has been a significant real reduction in the role and number of nuclear weapons in Europe, it is far from reaching the goal of full nuclear disarmament in Europe and globally. The central party is concerned that Norway must continue to work actively to prevent both the proliferation of nuclear weapons and to reduce the role of nuclear weapons in international policy. It is in the promotion of cooperation structures and as a positive and pragmatic contributor and participant in international negotiations that Norway can fulfil its responsibilities in the field of nuclear disarmament. We have to recognise that the nuclear powers have the key to further nuclear disarmament, and therefore these have a special responsibility. This responsibility must not be diluted. This does not mean, however, that the rest of the world society should not engage heavily. Confidence and transparency are key in this context. I want to draw up again the Canberra Commission's report. It has started to be a few years, but it contains a number of important proposals relating, for example, to: lower level of preparedness, removal of warheads from means of delivery, halting the deployment of non-strategic nuclear weapons and ending sub-critical testing of nuclear-related equipment. I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be able to comment on the status of some of the measures contained in the Canberra Commission report and on how Norway is dealing with them. The non-proliferation agreement plays a key role in further work on nuclear disarmament. It is essential that this agreement is not undermined. It is very worrying that different countries do not follow the agreement, and further work is needed to get the remaining countries to sign the agreement. Let me also stress that the credibility of the agreement depends on compliance, in the sense that there must be a full stop in the qualitative upgrading of nuclear weapons stocks, increased transparency about weapons arsenals and plutonium stocks, and not least continued arms reductions. In the last few days, we've been reminded again that nuclear material can get into the wrong hands, and how important it is that it doesn't happen. Further cooperation with Russia and other partners on nuclear remediation in our neighbourhoods is therefore of the utmost importance. It is gratifying to note that this work has some progress, and I give the Government credit for the initiatives it has taken in that area in the later days, while I am sure that we all in this room agree that this work is not going fast enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e362	The debate has shown that there is a broad consensus in this house about the need to intensify the work of disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. There is also a broad consensus to work forward towards the 2005 Conference of Supervisors, and further towards 2010 and 2015 if necessary, to ensure the Non-Proliferation Agreement and the Non-Proliferation regime and to get through the 13 points from the previous round. Our goal, and I am very pleased to have been said from almost everyone, is a nuclear-free world. I am pleased with the Norwegian support for the Japanese proposal, but I would like to ask that contact be made with the New Agenda countries, so that, perhaps next year, such a resolution will be extended. We should be results-oriented and not declaratory, but sometimes resolutions are also important. We need to focus on substance and not on process, but I believe that the NPT is more important than ever because of both new proliferation threats and persistent nuclear arsenals. It is also important that nuclear weapons States do not now legitimise that nuclear weapons can be used against countries that may have chemical or bacteriological weapons. I would like to stress that nuclear weapons are not only qualitatively different or different than conventional weapons, but also qualitatively worse and different and much more dangerous than other weapons of mass destruction. I have recorded that according to the Swedish initiative, there is now a commission to look at all kinds of weapons of destruction, i.e. nuclear weapons, bacteriological weapons and chemical weapons. This Commission shall be chaired by Hans Blix and shall report to Kofi Annan. It may well be that Norway also cooperates with Sweden on such issues. Sweden is not a NATO country, but it is an EU country and a neighbouring country and therefore an important partner. At the end of the day, I would like to underline what has been mentioned by many people, namely the administration of the northern regions and the nuclear waste, which unfortunately we see are both on the Kola peninsula and partly on the road. The NATO-Russia Council is an important forum. The same is true of increasing dialogue between Russia and the United States. We should continue working on the G8 initiative. These include: based on the campaign to Senator Lugar and former Senator Nunn. For us as a neighbouring country, the clean-up of nuclear waste in the northern regions will be very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e375	I just want to comment on some aspects in more detail. Let me first say to Åslaug Haga that I dare not take the status of the Canberra report after the memory, so I must report it carefully in this context. We'll get back to how it might be followed up later. I would like to stress that I have noticed that a lot of people in the debate have been involved in the work in the northern regions. I think that's very important. It's a concrete work we can both do and do in practice. Marit Nybakk has mentioned the NATO-Russia Council on a few occasions in the debate. The problem with that is that I had strongly wanted the NATO-Russia Council to set up nuclear pollution in the north as one of the important issues. Unfortunately, it doesn't look like I'm getting along with it. There have been questions about how the NATO-Russia Council can provide added value. We have to work on that, because I strongly believe that we should not give up using the NATO-Russia Council in that context. For the time being, I have probably not received much positive feedback at that point, unfortunately, but I thought it was really an opportunity. Then I want to pass on some reasoning about the reform work in the UN, as Bjørn Jacobsen also mentioned in his introduction. I think it is very important that we do not see reform work in the UN just as a matter of the Security Council, which in many ways takes the headlines, and which is perhaps the most difficult of the issues we face, but sees the significant need for reform that lies, for example. in that the main assembly is not read down as a draft resolution or the work done in connection with the first committee. Reforms that Norway should also put pressure on can be achieved here. We must not just be interested in the reforms in the Security Council. The UN system can be reformed in many areas. Then it was the very texts attached to the New Agenda Coalition. The problem there has not been a lack of contact in itself, but that countries would not listen to what we said. That's where the problem lies. Of course, I will also repeat to next year our position on the texts of the resolutions, as I stated in my introduction, namely that we agree with many of the main concepts, but that the texts are designed in such a way that, in our opinion, they are not useful in relation to the purpose that is desired. I'll probably still have that attitude to it, and we'll hope it's easier to get to the next year than it was this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e388	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e402	The world has gone a long way from the time battles were fought with swords, to the development we see today, where one does not know what an enemy or a terrorist will use in his struggle to achieve a goal. But it must not prevent us from doing what can be done, in order to prevent conventional weapons and ammunition from getting into the hands of people who want to kill to achieve a goal. We also face people and groups who cynically employ new technologies to manufacture weapons for the purpose of attacking innocent civilians. The time we knew where the enemy was is over. Nevertheless, it must not make us see ghosts in every hook. It is important that we take our preliminary rules and that we become more careful about who we sell weapons to. We'd rather see a world without weapons, which is described in the song. «Tonight I dreamed of something that I never dreamed before.I dreamed of it as peace on earth and all war was over». Unfortunately, reality is far from this dream. It's a saying that you have no peace beyond the neighbour's will, and that's what you have to deal with, whether it's politics, religion, tribes, ethnic groups, or the fight for land and water. An ever-increasing population and difference between poor and rich does not make the situation brighter, but neither does it justify killing innocent people to achieve their goals. This communication, which we are now examining, provides an overview of Norwegian exports of defence equipment for the year 2002, with lists and tables, and concerns export control and international non-proliferation cooperation. Given the unstable situation in many parts of the world, the Foreign Affairs Committee considers it important to maintain strict control of arms exports and technologies that can be used to manufacture weapons and to which countries they are exported. Norway’s export control is important in order to prevent the waiving of weapons, and is based to a large extent on international cooperation in this area and the commitments undertaken by the participating countries. It is therefore gratifying that most developed countries, and hence the largest suppliers of sensitive goods and technology, participate in the cooperation. In the international context, Norway has relatively modest exports of defence equipment, and the Norwegian defence industry produces and exports to a small extent complete weapon systems. Components, parts, electronic equipment and explosives were the predominant part of exports. In today's situation, it is important that we maintain a high technological standard on both the weapons we export and those we import. It's better to be led was than for quick. Some would argue that too much money is spent on weapons and weapon systems, money that could have been used to improve the situation for many people. But the situation in the world is unfortunately not such that we can gamble with our security and defense, and that is this world to which we must relate. Multilateral export control in recent years has become an important tool in preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the build-up of conventional military capacity that could threaten the stability and security of an area. Many of the armed conflicts in the world also appear to be becoming more bloody and prolonged through the administration of smuggled weapons. It is therefore important to develop measures against illicit arms trafficking, including: better border control against countries in conflict. A cause for growing concern is also all the unregistered and illegal weapons that pose a serious problem in conflict areas, and therefore the Committee believes that their removal must also be part of international cooperation. In the fight against terrorism, the Foreign Affairs Committee believes that it is important to prevent arms and technology from coming into the hands of groups or persons whose civil lives are aimed at promoting their cause. A restrictive policy on the sale of weapons and technology remains to be pursued. It is important that the Norwegian Export Control Code is reviewed with a view to carrying out a necessary update in order to face increasingly new political situations and that satisfactory evidence is available before export authorisation can be granted. This must also apply to goods related to maintenance, repairs and spare parts. Therefore, the Foreign Affairs Committee is pleased that the Ministry has started this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e449	Since 1996, large-scale notifications have been submitted that have provided an overview of Norwegian exports of defence equipment. Norway has a target of greater transparency about international arms trafficking. This is an objective which the Workers' Party has supported, and we therefore welcome contributions in the direction that this vote takes. There are armed conflicts in several places in the world, and the situation is in several places very unstable. Norway shall not export weapons to countries in war. It is also important to prevent weapons from getting into the hands of terrorists. A tool to ensure this is to maintain strict control of arms exports and, in addition, to be active in relation to the fact that technologies used to produce weapons are also subject to strict control. Furthermore, we need to ensure better border control against countries in conflict. Transparency is a prerequisite for ensuring the retesting of where the weapons have been sold. It is important that this transparency applies to both the seller and the buyer of weapons in order to prevent resale to states and non-state actors that we regard as illegitimate. This is important, also in the fight against terrorism. The issue of arms trafficking is controversial. It is therefore important to stress that the majority of the Committee is satisfied with the practice of existing legislation. The Committee is also pleased that Norway implements the relevant UN and OSCE decisions and, in practice, all EU decisions. Broad political consensus in this area of policy is a great advantage. However, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has previously announced that a review of the Norwegian Export Control Code has been initiated, without there being a result, even if such a review was already announced for 2001. Just because trade in weapons is sensitive, transparency is a prerequisite for the legitimacy of the sector in the population. It is therefore gratifying that a total increase in this setting is asking the Government to investigate the possibility of increased transparency and better procedures for the transparency of the Storting. We assume that such a statement will be included in next year's message. I would like to refer to the proposal of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, asking the Government to investigate whether a politically complex advisory body should be set up to control arms exports. Such a sample is available in Sweden. This is not meant as an order from our side to the Government to immediately create such a selection. It is a desire to investigate whether such a sample could serve as a mechanism for improving the transparency and control of Norwegian arms exports. The working party had looked at such an investigation as desirable. Where appropriate, by means of such an investigation, other means of ensuring equivalent transparency could be identified. We believe that such an investigation would be a fruitful addition in order to obtain the best possible transparency, control and traceability in the case of Norwegian arms exports. For the Workers' Party, it is important to stress that transparency around weapons has several sides. Firstly, it includes what the public is given access to, and it also includes information from arms producers to the authorities, i.e.: the transparency given to the Government. The working party believes that both of these elements are important, and therefore wishes to welcome the intentions of this vote. However, we could have had an even better attitude if the government had been willing to join the minority in order to get an export control board based on a model from Sweden. I would like to address the proposal from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e468	The representative Gunhild Eye has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e471	The right is satisfied with the notification of Norwegian exports of defence equipment while mentioning export control and international non-proliferation cooperation. The armed conflict in many parts of the world and the increasing scale and ingenuity of international terrorism are sad to say that there is every reason to intensify and continue work on a conscious national policy such as: contributes to an international strengthening of control and limiting its dissemination. Right is satisfied that the Government of the message clearly shows how a meeting meets and will meet this challenge. The right has not supported the minority’s proposal that the Government investigate whether a politically complex advisory body should be set up to control arms exports, as one has in Sweden, the so-called Export Control Council. When we do not consider such a proposal necessary, it is due to two factors. Firstly, the scope of Norwegian arms exports is significantly smaller than that of Sweden. There's the volume larger, but it also includes whole weapon systems in a completely different way. Secondly, the right considers that the Committee has captured the same need through its unanimous comment, which states: ‘The Committee considers that the greatest possible degree of transparency in arms exports is important in view of the legitimacy of the sector in the population. The majority asks the Government to explore the possibility of exercising increased transparency in the export of defence material nationally and internationally, including procedures for the transparency of the Storting. It is therefore desirable that the Government explain this further in the next year's report on exports of defence equipment.» To the right, this is entirely satisfactory, and we are responding to the statement that becomes part of next year's message.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e489	Norway is unlikely to have any major problems with the export of weapons. When I take a little rest, it is because the report we are dealing with today, in the SV's opinion, is not sufficiently concrete to allow policymakers to assess whether exports are non-problematic. SV thinks it would be important if we could get a more concrete insight, and that Norway could hire an international when it comes to openness about the Armistice. We're not doing that today. According to, among others: PRIO is a number of countries better than Norway in terms of openness and reporting procedures. The SV also suggests that, based on the information we actually have, there is reason to ask critical questions about the Norwegian arms exports in 2002, which is the subject of the report. We would point out that it was exported to countries such as the United States. Saudi Arabia, Malaysia and Turkey. More and more weapons are being traded with countries outside NATO, which have traditionally been the best customer countries. Turkey is in NATO, but is a country with such a huge human rights problem that SV believes that stop in the arms trade would still be in place. We should like to know a lot more about these exports, and are basically critical of trading with these countries. This is also the background to SV not having joined the Committee’s satisfaction with the legislative practice. There has been a positive development when it comes to Storting's holding to the annual arms export message. A look at the previous settings shows this. Not least, I am pleased with the development that has taken place in the case-speaker's party. In the course of the 1998–99 review of the message, the Progress Party had comments which primarily signalled that one should open up to more arms exports from Norway, and, as one pointed out in the 2000 treatment, to a larger potential market. SV is therefore pleased that both the Progress Party and the other parties are so clearly expressing that trade in weapons must be subject to clear restrictions and controls, and that openness and transparency are important to ensure that this happens. Today's setting is a significant step forward in highlighting the importance of being open about arms exports. This is very positive and absolutely necessary. We have in the comment from SV taken with a example of how difficult it is for us people elected to get clear information about issues dealing with arms exports. SV wanted to know more about the export of Mk 211 ammunition, which is produced by Nammo AS at Raufoss, and against which the International Red Cross has raised strong criticism. We're going to leave the question of whether this production should continue in Norway, lying in this round. Now we're taking up what kind of response we got when we tried to figure out how this ammunition is spread. The danger of spreading to unstable areas is precisely the main reason why the Red Cross has debated this. They claim that the ammunition is a special property for snipers and are concerned that ammunition produced in Norway — or under Norwegian licence — will end up in the area of the world where they operate. This makes it very relevant to try to find out to whom this specific product – as a finished product or under licence – is exported. From SV we wrote to the Minister of Industry to get answers to this, but got the answer that these are business secrets. SV believes it is very little satisfactory that Norwegian voters cannot be told who buys a type of ammunition that the International Red Cross strongly criticizes us for selling. This helps to shape the background to our desire for more concrete information for the Storting in the annual reports. Full openness would have been the best, from a control point of view. However, SV acknowledges that there are aspects of Norwegian arms exports that may be legitimate grounds for holding back, in relation to disseminating information. SV believes that in such cases, a self-contained policy-based export control selection could both assess the need for confidentiality and lead to adequate control. This double task would really be suitable for such a selection. With the Labour Party and the Centre Party, we are therefore tabling – as it has been mentioned before today – the proposal to at least clarify whether there should be a political selection for control of arms exports, as one has in Sweden. There has been one, as you know, since 1985 a selection called the 'Export Control Council', which is a special parliamentary advisory body when it comes to war materials for exports. The aim was to make it possible to have more regular political control over exports and to take part in interpreting the legislation from day to day. SV believes that such a selection could be a very useful addition to the Norwegian export control, not least because it could then be possible to gain more popular control over exports in advance of deliveries, and not, as today, that we are told a little over a year later that something that we might not agree with has happened. We note that there will not be any pluralities for the proposal here today. But we find it strange that the other parts can't at least be involved that one should get an explanation of whether such a selection could be useful. There is a need for stronger international cooperation on the regulation of arms trafficking and on the spread of all types of weapons. Cooperation is not least necessary because the production of weapons is increasingly driven by the fact that different parts of the world are being produced in different countries. It is also necessary because more and more weapons accumulate in unstable regimes and on private hands. SV means it's very positive that Norway is such an active driver internationally as we are when it comes to these questions. It is important that Norway reduces its efforts to achieve concrete small steps towards increased control, e.g.: that one may have an arrangement with the marking of weapons, which is what Norway is working for. SV recently asked the Government about how it views the need for an international convention on arms trafficking. We interpret the answer so that the government supports the intentions of such a convention, but that she thinks it is more sensible to follow the processes of increased control that are in progress than to work out a new convention. The most important thing is, of course, that we do have strategies that mean concrete improvements in the short term. But I think it's important that Norway also maintains some long-term visions for the international arms control work. In such a context, a new Convention may be important. This is true to say outside of the report we are dealing with today, but it is tempting to travel a couple of crucifixes in the end. We're still dealing weapons with Israel – so that's what it's all about. Statistics from the Central Bureau show that trade in several product types of defence equipment to the United States and the United Kingdom made some strong jumps in January and February of this year, just during the admission to the Iraq war. I hope that the 2003 report will be able to give us a clear picture of what weapons and ammunition types Norway exported for use in the Iraq war, despite our principle of not trading with countries in war. I think we should at least be able to see facts in the eye and have an honest debate on whether this was contrary to the law or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e515	Norway has a clear export control policy, with its own law as a formal basis. The countries in which we are going to trade are determined by careful assessment, including in discussions with the Stortinget. The starting point for export controls is that the decision will focus on foreign policy and domestic policy assessments and that Norway's main point of view must be not to allow the sale of weapons and ammunition to areas where there is war or war or to countries where there is civil war. Through the message we are currently receiving today, Stortinget is presented with a detailed overview of Norwegian exports of defence equipment for the year 2002, with lists and tables, and a report on export control and international non-proliferation work. The notification shows that Norway has relatively modest exports of defence equipment in an international context and that the largest recipients of material from Norway are NATO countries, Nordic countries and other European countries. Trade in weapons and military materials is currently primarily a national responsibility, but is seeing an increasing international dialogue within the framework of international cooperation. This is not least related to the fight against terrorism. Developments are moving towards greater transparency. The Norwegian authorities emphasise the maximum transparency of Norwegian defence equipment sports within the limits imposed by the obligation of professional secrecy. The Communication states that Norway is working ‘actively to promote greater transparency and transparency in international arms trade’. This believes the Christian People's Party is absolutely central. We need more transparency around international arms trade and greater democratic transparency. There is an overall committee that considers that the greatest possible transparency in arms exports is important and that wants the Government to further explain the possibility of exercising increased transparency nationally and internationally in the next year’s report on exports of defence material. The Committee has also asked the Government to look at the procedures for the transparency of arms exports by the Storting. The Christian People's Party believes it is positive that a summary of the message in English, with the tables, will be distributed in the UN and in other international forums and posted on the ministry's website. Such measures help to increase the transparency of arms exports. The Christian People’s Party welcomes Norway’s active participation in international cooperation to prevent the spread of weapons that could threaten international security and stability, including in all international non-proliferation regimes and export control regimes aimed at preventing the proliferation of weapons and relevant technologies. There is a growing trend towards international cooperation and coordination of control and transparency measures in the field of arms trafficking. The Christian People's Party welcomes all measures to prevent the spread of arms and strategic technologies, and is pleased that the issue is on the agenda of a number of international forums. The main starting point for non-proliferation cooperation and export control cooperation is the United Nations Firearms Protocol, the United Nations Action Plan against the Illicit Trade in Small Arms, the Wassenaar Cooperation Consensus Documents on Export Control and the OSCE Trade in Small Arms Document. Norway has also adhered to the EU Code of Conduct on Arms Exports, the aim of which is to ensure a common minimum standard for assessing arms exports. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that Norway continues to actively support these processes. Over time, it will contribute to greater international control, coordination and transparency of arms trafficking and to the development of international standards. In the Christian People's Party, we consider all the work that can lead to an international convention in this area to be positive. Multilateral export control in recent years has become an important tool in preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the build-up of conventional military capacity that could threaten the stability and security of an area. Since 11 September 2001, the multilateral export control regimes have intensified their activities as part of the fight against international terrorism. We have discussed the Non-Proliferation Agreement earlier today. The Christian People's Party considers this agreement to be the most important individual armaments control agency, where the contracting parties are obliged to subject their civil nuclear installations to the control of the International Atomic Energy Council. Such checks are also carried out here in Norway. All countries have joined the Non-Proliferation Agreement, with the exception of India, Pakistan and Israel. The fact that 188 countries have joined the agreement shows how valuable it is and how effective it can be if all meet the obligations contained in the agreement. At the 2000 Conference of Supervisors, the agreement was extended indefinitely and 13 concrete measures were adopted for the systematic and gradual implementation of the agreement. As we have discussed earlier, the implementation of these measures has been deficient. Proposals for strengthening export control did not give full coverage. Towards the next Conference of Supervisors, in 2005, the aim is to improve the understanding of export control measures to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Norway must be a driving force for compliance with the measures of the previous Conference of Supervisors and for progress to be made in non-proliferation and disarmament. I also want to mention the importance of the supplementary protocol. This obliges the parties to a detailed declaration of activity related to nuclear activities. It also gives the International Atomic Energy Agency, the IAEA, the right to independent verification of the correctness of these declarations. Inspectors from the IAEA invited North Korea to comply with the obligations of the Non-Proliferation Agreement and to provide transparency in its nuclear activities. Inspectors from the IAEA were also inside Iraq to investigate whether the country had resumed its nuclear programme from 1998. Small arms are a serious problem in conflict zones and an obstacle to development. Such weapons are used in and after conflicts for serious assaults. We are seeing an ever-increasing spread of small arms and light weapons, especially in countries characterized by unrest and war. We are pleased that Norway is taking this problem very seriously. Norway is working within several international forums to gain impetus to control the transfer of weapons between third countries, and we will work actively within the UN process dealing with this issue. Norway is also associated with the EU's joint action on small arms. If a clear restriction on illicit arms trafficking is to be achieved, arms exporting countries will have to take responsibility for exercising control over their own exports. We also need to know more about who is involved. acquire such weapons, who are intermediaries, front companies and brokers. Such information may be exchanged within the international export regimes. Once again, it shows the usefulness of international cooperation and increased transparency in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e534	The multiplicity setting shows that there is full agreement that we should have a strict arms export regime in Norway. The reasons for this are well explained in the setting. I just want to link two comments to the setting. Firstly, it is gratifying that an overall committee asks the Government to explain in detail the possibility of exercising increased transparency on exports of defence equipment nationally and internationally in next year's report. The centre party thinks it's possible to practice increased openness. We hope and believe that this majority comment will prove to be a step towards increasing transparency on Norwegian arms exports. Then we recognize that these are complex relationships, and that it is necessary that we get a basis from the ministry to take the broad debate on how this can be done in practice. That is why we hope that next year we will be able to take a debate in this Chamber that is solid and well thought out, so that we can increase transparency and understand that it can and should be done. This is what the Minister of Foreign Affairs is now asking us to do with an open mind, so that we will have the good foundation for the next year, and I think that is what the Minister of Foreign Affairs is doing. The central party is convinced that maximum transparency is essential for the legitimacy of the arms industry in Norway. Without transparency, we don't believe that this legitimacy is guaranteed. That's the one. The second, which has been discussed by many, is that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are seeking to ascertain whether a politically complex advisory body should be set up to control arms exports. The purpose of this proposal is simply the same as I have been talking about, that we want increased transparency, increased transparency and increased control. This type of sample is available in Sweden. We recognise that Sweden and Norway are not fully comparable in this area, but we believe that the intention behind the establishment of this sample in Sweden should have the same justification in Norway. We are amazed that the Government does not open up to investigate this question. I am particularly amazed that the Christian People's Party is not in it, the Christian People's Party which has traditionally been concerned with considerable openness, as I have at least perceived the party. I believe that if one is genuinely concerned with the transparency, transparency and control of these issues, there should be nothing in the way of at least getting on the table what it is possible to achieve by establishing such a sample, and then having this selection as an instrument in addition to the other tools at its disposal to increase transparency and control. But I just have to say that this proposal seems to be voted down by the government parties and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e545	There are some things that have been mentioned in the debate, which I would like to come back to. One is that I would like to express great satisfaction at the fact that a very broad majority of the Committee is saying that they are satisfied with the practice of the Norwegian legislation. In many ways, too, some of the main points of the communication and debate are to get feedback on the practice as the Storting wishes. And this is a very clear feedback. At the same time, I have noticed that the Committee wants a basis for a debate on whether it is possible to create greater transparency in this area in the next year's communication, and we shall of course facilitate that basis. I have also noticed that the case rapporteur raised the issue of the review of the export control legislation. It was notified for a while back. I just want to say that I expect that it will be possible to complete the ongoing legal work during 2004. This means that in a debate at this time until next year, the Committee will also know the proposition in this area. With regard to the minority proposal on a politically complex advisory panel, I would like to say the following: firstly, as many have said in the debate, it is quite clear that it is not so easy to compare Norway and Sweden, because Sweden has a much larger arms industry and exports much more complete weapon systems. But I have also noticed that the minority makes a wish more than a demonstration that such a sample could work in terms of transparency. I think maybe the most important thing is that you now have the transparency checked, as the committee asks. We're going to do that. I would like to remind you that the introduction of a policy-making advisory panel will easily lead to the eradicating of political responsibility and also to the launching of an unnecessary bureaucratic system. I believe in many ways that we have found a system today that keeps responsibility clear. And I know very well where the responsibility lies, and I think maybe we're not going to make systems that erase it. When the minority has not given any particular reasons along these lines either, I have to say that I do not think we should start a work, and I notice that the majority of the committee also does not think it is necessary, but has pointed out other ways to get there, and is satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e558	Then the Minister of Foreign Affairs has put on a line, from Bjørn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e561	The line goes on the last time the Foreign Minister was in, this with that selection. Since the Foreign Minister is not so very willing to get such a selection, I would like to ask: can he think of improving the reporting to next year, making it more concrete? So can we get information next year about what kind of specific product are exported, and not just the product groups? Can we get information about the refusals given on the export licence, who has applied, and the grounds for refusal, i.e. more detailed information? And can we, for example, know what kind of concrete weapons are sold, and also to which country, i.e. a more detailed distribution? Could there be a task for this selection?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e569	So we're going back to next year's question of more transparency, which in many ways is a separate question. Now, when I hear the representative Jacobsen, I get the impression that you definitely compare apples and pears, because if you're going to have an advisory sample that, as far as I know, shouldn't give advice, but almost be a kind of sample to get information that you can't get hold of, I think it all bears witness to a relatively vague thought, and in this question, I think it's very important to keep a clear thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e574	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e577	The size treats St. ermeld. No 35 for 2002–03 Exports of defence equipment from Norway in 2002. The Storting Communication provides a comprehensive overview of exports of Norwegian defence equipment in 2002. Storting notifications dealing with Norwegian arms exports have been published since 1996. I find this kind of overview absolutely necessary, and I support the attitude that the Foreign Affairs Committee has put forward. In particular, I am pleased that the Committee does not agree with the principles that have marked Norwegian arms exports since 11 March 1959, when a Norwegian Government declaration and a decision on big business concluded that the main point of view should be that Norway will not permit the sale of weapons or ammunition to countries where there is war or war, or to countries where there is civil war. There is also another guideline for Norwegian arms exports I would like to declare my support for. That's the principle of transparency. Transparency is a prerequisite for knowing which weapons were sold by whom, and which weapons were purchased by whom. In this way you can figure out what role the weapons are supposed to play. I believe – as the committee does – that transparency is a core element of confidence in the Norwegian population. Not everyone has the same understanding that weapons and ammunition are being produced in this country. However, I believe transparency about production and exports can help secure the jobs associated with this activity. The world is not an equally peaceful place everywhere. Unfortunately, war is a constant phenomenon somewhere in the world. That's exactly why we all have to be aware that war is not like in movies. Therefore, strict control of arms exports will be one of Norway’s contribution to making the world a better place. I am pleased that it is a broad political majority that supports the practice established in this area. For the same reason, I support the proposal promoted by the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, which proposes that the Government investigate whether it is possible to make use of a politically complex consultative body that can control arms exports. There was growth in Norwegian arms exports in 2002, and that may be why there has been criticism of exports. As I see it, this is due to some extent to the fact that ammunition is produced on the license, as well as the restructuring and the new ownership distribution that has taken place on the manufacturer's side. For those who do not want such an approach as is contained in that proposal, it may be a wake-up call that the world after the end of the Cold War has seen the emergence of terror to an extent that has so far been unknown and that we are reminded of every day. The representative of Vallersnes said in his statement that the right does not support the proposal of the three mentioned batches for a model of control similar to the one they have in Sweden, on the grounds that Sweden has a much larger export of weapons than Norway. This was also supported by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his speech. Yes then, I know that the Norwegian defence industry produces and exports to a small extent complete weapon systems, but to kill another person, there is no need for a complete weapon system. For that, only one bullet is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e601	Of course, it can be discussed whether SV deserves special attention when discussing weapons and matters of a defensive nature. I just want to start by reminding you that it is both morally and ethically sound and legitimate to produce weapons, because it is a premise to be able to defend itself, and, as I said, defence is a matter of peace. Just so it's said. If we see today's debate by the SV in connection with their alternative proposals for the state budget, with a cut in defence of NOK 4.5 billion, I can only say that if that proposal were ever to be adopted, we would release this kind of debate in the future, because then we would simply not have any Norwegian arms industry that could stand for export. They notice well, I think, for example. in Rauphoss, and in Kongsberg, in Narvik, and in Mandal. SV says in its comment in the setting, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘These members indicate that Norway, compared with a number of other countries, practices an extensive secrecy in arms exports and that transparency is a cornerstone of both the EU Code of Conduct on Arms Transfers and the Joint Action on Small Arms and Light Weapons’. If this comment could be seen as SV now moving towards EU membership, it would be nice in itself, because that transparency would be in place if we had got it. So very briefly a few words in relation to the Swedish Export Control Board. I agree, of course, with what both Mr Vallersnes and the Minister for Foreign Affairs said about the size of Swedish weapon production, but I also want to remember Sweden's history in terms of the export of weapons, which is of such a nature that if we had been close to this in Norway, both the supervisory authorities could have been in place. It's not for nothing that Sweden had to get that advice, as it was. I would like to remind you that in Norway we do not have too much arms exports. Within the strict framework to which we practice and to which an almost unanimous increase has joined, it must be a goal to increase Norwegian arms exports. We've had a success story called Penguin. We've now spent over $1 billion. to attempt to develop a new maritime missile with all possible reasons for the success of Kongsberg. In that case, in order to recover some of the enormous research efforts made in this area, it would be a clear goal for Norway to be able to sell it to other countries as well. So Norway does not have too large a weapon industry. On the contrary, a weapons industry is an important pillar of a national defence. And, because it is so expensive to develop new weapon systems within the strict export regime we practice, it must be a clear goal that Norwegian technology can also benefit other countries in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e623	Lars Rise has spoken once before. He thus has the floor for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e626	Since Åslaug Haga gave a small visit to the Christian People's Party, I find it necessary to ask for some clarifications. Åslaug Haga said she was amazed that the Christian People's Party did not support the proposal for a politically complex consultative body. Furthermore, she said that she believed the Christian People's Party was a subject of openness. In this way, she lamented that we are not involved in the proposal for a politically complex consultative body. Does this mean that Åslaug Haga is a member of such a selection? The wording states that the proposal is that the Storting asks the Government to investigate whether such a selection should be established. But then I don't fully understand the problem, that it's so regrettable that we can't support such a sample. I understand it so that Åslaug Haga looks very positive at it. A joint committee has said: ‘The Committee considers that the greatest possible degree of transparency in arms exports is important in view of the legitimacy of the sector in the population. The majority asks the Government to explore the possibility of exercising increased transparency in the export of defence material nationally and internationally, including procedures for the transparency of the Storting. It is therefore desirable that the Government explain this further in the next year's report on exports of defence equipment.» That's what a committee said. When, in addition, a specific suggestion is made that someone should investigate whether to set up such a sample, I am a little surprised that there are some who have already concluded what it is going to become into. I ask for clarification, and I wonder if the suspicion that the Christian People's Party does not support this proposal is as great.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e644	I really don't think that the representative Rise needs to complicate this any more than the following: What the centre party is amazed at is that the Christian People's Party, which – as I see it – is engaged in openness in general, cannot participate in the investigation of a proposal that may help to strengthen transparency in arms exports. It would be natural, I think, as I know the Christian People's Party, to join in on that proposal. I have not concluded in advance. That's why we're asking the Government to investigate it, but the curiosity of openness, as I know it from the Christian People's Party, would suggest that the Christian People's Party should have been involved in that proposal under normal circumstances. I find that they do not.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e653	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e669	IFAD is the International Agricultural Fund for Agricultural Development and provides loans on favourable terms for measures aimed at increasing the standard of living of poor groups in rural areas. St. pp. No 77 deals with the negotiations on the sixth capital injection in IFAD. It is about the size of the filling and the burden-sharing between donor countries. The IFAD target group is primarily those who do not own land, small farmers in marginal agricultural areas, fishing communities, indigenous peoples and nomadic groups. The basic idea behind IFAD’s activities is that the poor themselves should be able to escape poverty. Particular attention shall be paid to strengthening the financial participation of women and meeting their needs. These are objectives that have broad support in the Storting. IFAD has an overall approach to rural development, and supports a variety of measures, but is not itself an implementing body. Most IFAD projects participate in, co-financed with other actors. This can achieve the widest possible development effect. In the sixth capital add-on that we are dealing with today, there was just a focus on increasing the development impact of the business. Furthermore, the focus was on setting the Millennium Goals at the heart of the business. From the Norwegian side, a focus was on translating policies into practical results, which means that IFAD needs to intensify its efforts to establish good follow-up and reporting systems. It also underlined the need for such systems to ensure equality in all parts of the organisation and at all stages of the activity. There is broad support in the Storting for these views. Research clearly shows that a country’s governance and general political climate have a major impact on the results of development cooperation. This has led to a greater allocation of resources to countries where resources can actually provide economic development and poverty reduction. The Member States agreed this time on a performance-based allocation system, based on the special mandate and role of the institution. A working group was set up with Norway as a member. The opinion is that a performance-based resource allocation system will enter into force from 2004. There was also a debate on IFAD’s presence at country level, in which Norwegian claims that IFAD’s primary task must be to strengthen the poor’s own ability to participate in the process. That's an argument it's not hard to join. The Ministry concludes that IFAD’s mandate is well in line with key objectives of Norwegian foreign policy. If the target of combating poverty is to be achieved in the south of 2015, it is necessary to focus on the development of agriculture in poor countries. The Ministry considers IFAD to be an important actor in poor governance. That is exactly why I believe that there is good reason to provide good follow-up and reporting procedures. The Norwegian contribution amounts to approximately 64,9 million. DKK over a three-year period and is proposed covered within the assistance framework. The setting of the committee is unanimous, and I recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e692	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 436]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e700	We are then going to vote on the matters listed on today's map. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18.ana.ud1498e709	During the debate Gunhild Øyangen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to determine whether a politically complex advisory body should be set up which can control arms exports as they have in Sweden. [[Export Control Board]]
