ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27-lower.ana.ud1322e32	The regulatory time for today’s meeting is nearing its end. The President proposes that today's meeting continue until today's map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27-lower.ana.ud1322e44	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting on Monday 3 March, and considers it to be adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27-lower.ana.ud1322e49	I suggest Gunnar Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27-lower.ana.ud1322e54	Gunnar Halvorsen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and thus Gunnar Halvorsen is unanimously elected President of the Odelstinget meeting on Monday 3 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27-lower.ana.ud1322e68	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27-lower.ana.ud1322e77	Document No 8:22 applies to proposals to change the municipality by expanding the basis for instability. The background to the proposal, presented by two representatives from the Progress Party, is the 1997 agreement between the Arbeidarpartiet, Norsk Kommunebund and Norsk Elektroiker- og Kraftstationbund – NEKF. The proposers want an elected representative who participates in a party grouping in a county council or in a local government and the main organisation or the county or local community of this grouping to have an agreement with any person or any association to be included in a case when the agreement relates to the manner in which the party groups' elected representatives shall act in the type of case to be dealt with. The corresponding shall also apply to elected members of a political party when dealing with matters of other selections or names created with a background in the municipality of Elva § 10. The Committee has asked the Ministry to consider the proposal. The letter from the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs is at hand. The Councils of State disagree with the proposal, and the majority – all parties apart from the Progress Party – with the Council of State that the proposal will involve a substantial extension of the sustainability requirements that currently apply to the populace. The majority stress that it is important to ensure the legitimacy of the decisions taken in elected bodies. And the question of viability is an important element in that context. It is referred to relevant legal paragraphs in connection with it. So the plural divides into its rationale. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party indicate that each individual case has to make a specific assessment in order to decide on the question of stability. This plurality indicates that agreements and cooperation between political parties and organisations or other social actors do not automatically lead to instability, but the majority point out that it is important that both the agreements and their content are open and known to the public. The same plural also emphasizes that there are hidden bonds and interests that represent a democratic problem. Of course, there may be differences of opinion as to whether it is a good thing or a good thing to have agreements that can give different forms of tied mandate. This plural belief is that there will be expressions through the choices and the support that will be given to the various parties. So the Right Party and the Christian People's Party stress that a strongly bound mandate as a national election can lead to a problem in a democracy. The elected representatives are primarily morally bound by their program and their promises to the voters, not by written agreements with individual groups. But these games are also about change. And I think they're going to do what they're doing here. A review of the 1997 agreement shows that this is an agreement which has headings for the continuation of professional policy cooperation and is a follow-up to the cooperation between the Labour Party and trade unions that has been going on for many years. So it is this agreement that forms the basis for this proposal today. I think it's possible to wonder that the trade so unilaterally seemed to relate to a party. There are several parties on the Storting that share the objective of the value of a strong public sector and that work for a flexible and efficient public sector that develops better services. But there's another debate that we're going to have to do in a different context. The Committee's recommendation is therefore quite clear: it is to reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27-lower.ana.ud1322e100	The issue that Odelstinget is now debating is based on a proposal from the Progress Party. The proposal introduces a new rule which states that agreements between a political party and an organisation will automatically lead to instability. The proposal from the Progress Party will lead to a strong extension of the current viability requirements. The Labour Party believes that it is important to ensure the legitimacy of the decisions taken in elected bodies. The requirement for sustainability is the result of administrative laws and liabilities also for the elected representatives of municipal and county authorities. In addition, Kommunelova has specific rules on the incapacity of the populace in dealing with specific cases. I mainly agree with the assessments expressed by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs. Our view is that cooperation and agreements between political parties and organisations should not automatically lead to instability. The decisive thing is that there is an open hold in such matters. In practice, the public will have to know that cooperation and agreements exist. Then, on a free basis, the voters can assess the practice used and make their vision known through choices. For democracy, it is the hidden bonds that are unacceptable. There is no relevance whatsoever in the matter of the relationship between the LO Federation and the Labour Party. There is full public access to the contact between the employee organisation and the batch. A broad majority in the municipal committee rejects the proposal of the Progress Party. That's clearly positive. The strong extension of the stability requirements proposed by the Progress Party does not have root fixation in Size. I would like to recommend the setting from the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27-lower.ana.ud1322e109	On the part of the government parties, we agree that there is now no basis for a substantial extension of the stability requirements, as the proposers wish. I would also like to point out in this debate that a strongly bound mandate as elected by the people through agreements poses a problem in a democracy. The elected representatives shall be primarily morally bound by their programme and their promises to the voters, and not by written agreements with individual groups. Of course, it also applies if there is transparency about such an agreement, and as I said, I find reason to stress that such agreements actually represent a certain democratic problem. However, it is difficult to draw clear lines between election vows to individual groups and agreements commonly known before the elections. In addition, a specific assessment will have to be made in each case. The government parties therefore believe that the present proposal would significantly extend the sustainability requirements of elected representatives, which we do not believe to be a desirable development. That is the basis for our finding that we cannot support the proposal presented in Document No. 8:22.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27-lower.ana.ud1322e116	The Party of Presidents is amazed and alarmed that this proposal will not be heard more, at least in the government parties. The Progress Party's proposal to amend the Local Government Act in order to strengthen the stability requirements of local politicians is intended to ensure that the decisions taken in our local democratic bodies are anchored in pure and open democratic and political processes. One of the most fundamental prerequisites for democracy's function and legitimacy is precisely the certainty that each politician is haphazard in relation to the issues involved in dealing with and deciding. Strict provisions on instability and stability have therefore become an important element of our democratic system. However, certain gaps in the provisions of the Stability Regulation exist, and such gaps want the Progress Party to close, among other things. through this proposal. If a more comprehensive culture is to be developed in order for politicians to be committed to taking predetermined views on important issues, through the conclusion of binding agreements with stakeholder organisations or other groupings, democracy is on completely wild roads. In fact, it all gives unpleasant associations to a corrupt political system where politicians can be locked up by branches, associations or trade unions. We can't have it that way. It is really frightening to see the lack of understanding that some people have for bearer and elementary democratic rules and legal certainty, which is highlighted in this proposal. When workers' party politicians in county councils or local government halls and city councils around the country are to act on the basis of a binding mandate and on the basis of agreements concluded, for example: with the Local Council commits itself to voting against all matters relating to the increased privatisation of public services, this is consistent with a unified, undemocratic governance system in which there is no opportunity to say what one really should think about a case. It becomes frightening when vital social interests can be tied up and governed by professional organizations that sit and pull the strings of their political puppets. This is a system from which any democracy should take a strong distance. But you say no! When even the Right seems to approve such a system, this is completely incomprehensible to me. The proposal of the Progress Party to ensure free and havile local democracy and havile local politicians is a good proposal to facilitate the best possible use of elementary democratic rules and local legitimacy. It is therefore very strange for these reasons that it has not been possible to have a majority in favour of this proposal, which I just have to say both shaken and astonished at. In conclusion, I would like to raise the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27-lower.ana.ud1322e131	Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27-lower.ana.ud1322e134	Legitimateness is very important in relation to the decisions that are taken, whether in one or the other elected body, and we need to take care of that. But I think that the proposers are exaggerating in relation to the importance of the cooperation that we know has been between the Workers' Party and the trade union movement for many years. It's been known, and it's been clear to everyone what it is. Then you can mean what you want about it, but I don't think there are so many people who haven't known it, and who have let themselves be fooled into voting in the Labour Party because they haven't known. I don't think it's been like this. I have to admit that I am being more frightened by all those who might draw some invisible threads in the decision-making process, while the Progress Party is obviously getting the most alarmed at what is open and clear to everyone. After all, it's not more than a few hours since a letter came down from the Group Bureau of the Progressive Party that made them turn around in a matter of great importance here, and that doesn't mean that there is an agreement, as was said from the pulpit here, but that means that there are organisations or forces that affect all political decisions at both municipal and national level. That's probably how it's going to be. But I think that the most important thing for both the municipal decision-makers and for us in the Storting is to ensure that the stability is continuous, and that what is of invisible bonds, agreements and influences is seen much more critically than today. There are quite large press groups who are now working in relation to political activities, and there is reason to question whether democracy is always there. There is also reason to question professional lobbyists in a number of cases, which have money, advice and time to influence – to almost occupy the Storting at times and almost force it to kneel down to adopt things. I have to say that I am far more concerned about the legitimacy of democracy in relation to the violent oppression that it can now be from such groups than I am about open agreements between a political party and legitimate, well-known, large organizations. So I don't think the Progress Party needs to be so scared, but they can have a political debate on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27-lower.ana.ud1322e141	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27-lower.ana.ud1322e157	The first speaker is Mr Kårbø, who will have the floor instead of the rapporteur, Mr Ivar Østberg, who is a member of the Laging House.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27-lower.ana.ud1322e160	This case of changing the laws of society is actually a little bit of a matter, but still important to them. It is a question of making an amendment to the Law of 29 June 1933 No. 2, flagging municipal public buildings. The Sami flag was approved by the 13th Nordic joint conference in Åre on 15 August 1986. The Sámi flag is a collective symbol of cross-border cooperation and is currently used, among others. of associations in Norway, Sweden and Finland, of municipalities, municipalities, organisations, some state institutions and in private context. The flag will be used for official national flag days, Sami flag days and for other solemn occasions. A working group has been set up, composed of four representatives from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, which has prepared the Report on the Use of the Sámi Flag. This was delivered on 15 July 2001. The report has been sent to 165 hearing aids, including: The assembly, municipalities, county councils and Sami organisations. All the hearing institutions contributed from the working groups to allow the use of the Sámi flag in the law. The same applies to formalising the use of the flag in an own legislation. A majority in the Municipal Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, are therefore in favour of the Government's warning of changes in its promise of the use of the Sami flag, in view of the fact that no guidelines exist for the use of this flag at present, except for the temporary rules of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the ranking of the Sami flag in relation to other flags. The majority further indicates that this legislative amendment does not entail any special or additional expenditure, nor does it imply new requirements and requirements for municipalities and county councils. On behalf of the majority of the municipal committee, I would therefore urge Odelstinget to adopt the proposed legislative changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27-lower.ana.ud1322e175	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 429]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27-lower.ana.ud1322e183	We should then be ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27-lower.ana.ud1322e190	During the debate, Mr Andersen, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the following proposals:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27-lower.ana.ud1322e271	The President has understood that the Progress Party will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27-lower.ana.ud1322e284	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27-lower.ana.ud1322e298	The President proposes that we take the vote again. The President is asking everyone to press the button.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-27-lower.ana.ud1322e310	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
