ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e69	The representative, Inge Ryan, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e72	I will, on behalf of Øystein Djupedal, Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, Heidi Sørensen and myself, put forward proposals to set up a fund for eco-innovation and start-ups.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e77	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 1, 2 and 3 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e115	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 40 minutes, Right 35 minutes, Advance Party 25 minutes, Socialist Left Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party 20 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e126	"Politics is wild," said Olof Palme. Those were wise words that I fully agree with. Unfortunately, it doesn't seem to be wanting to have been the majority's main goal of taking a larger part of the gas into use. The processing of the gas report could be an important start to a new industrial bag in our country for the next 50 to 100 years. A crucial prerequisite for getting this into and getting the gas to the places we need it and using it in industrial contexts is to build infrastructure. It is therefore disappointing that a majority, consisting of the government parties, the SV and the Central Party, put their feet on the brake instead of on the gas, because the majority’s decisions on new investigations and several assessments do not make a very large number of jobs – at least not now. Many places in the country are those that want to use gas for different purposes, areas that have been waiting for a long time. Grenland is one of these. Not least we experienced that when the Energy and Environment Committee visited Grenland earlier this winter. 6000 people in torch trains to get gas to Grenland showed an commitment to jobs that we very rarely experience. Border is one of several areas that want access to natural gas and that should receive it. In Eastfold, several places in the West, in Trøndelag and in the South, industry wants to use gas. Studies have been carried out in many of these locations and plans are in place. It is now just waiting for clear signals about how the state will contribute to the realisation of these plans. Then action is needed. The newspaper wrote in its editorial on 25 March: ‘Now there is a need for political action and foresight, not more investigations.’ I agree. Just 1 pst. of the gas we produce is used in Norway. 99 pst. leaving the country. Probably we'll produce gas for almost 100 more years. Creating new industrial jobs based on natural gas will therefore be creating badly needed long-term jobs. At a time when unemployment is rising every day, it is therefore very strange that the government parties, SV and the Central Party are not aware of their responsibilities and use this opportunity to give industry an important vitamin injection, because the signals from the industry have been quite clear: the key is infrastructure. And to be able to finance it, the state has to contribute. The Workers' Party's proposal to set up a state-owned company that would initially receive DKK 3 billion in equity and would have the task of co-financing infrastructure is a redeployment of the country's wealth in long-term investments. This is not subsidisation that will burden the expenditure side of the State budget. This winter has shown us that we also need the gas for energy purposes to prevent people from paying so crazy high power bills. The gap between what we use and what we produce has to be close. In addition to renewable energy, it is important to put gas power plants in place so that people and industry can have lower electricity costs. A majority in this Chamber will not contribute to it either. For the Workers' Party, it is a prerequisite that increased use of natural gas should take place within our international climate obligations. Increased use of natural gas in Norway could help reduce the use of more polluting energy sources. Nevertheless, it is an objective to develop as environmentally friendly technologies as possible, so that emissions are near zero. There is therefore a need for increased research and development in this area. Although a lot of research has been done in this field, most people believe that it is far to the goal. There is broad agreement to set up an innovation company in Grenland, but there is disagreement about how quickly it will start, about the mandate and about money. The innovation company shall be responsible for coordinating its efforts and shall promote technologies and pilot projects for the environmentally friendly use of gas for energy purposes, for petrochemicals and for hydrogen as an energy carrier. It is now almost two years since we decided to set up this company, and I am pleased that all parties today support this. However, we would like the majority to commit to the financing of the company and that the company could be established as of 1 January 2004. Nor will the majority be entirely specific here. We want to give a clear signal that the company should be given equity that can make it at the other end out 250 million. DKK for 10 years, which could be used for this purpose. Progress in the development of environmentally friendly gas technologies is important for our environment, but it is also important to create future Norwegian jobs based on this technology. Not least, technology itself can be sought and become an important export product. I find it strange that the government parties, who believe that a gas power plant with CO2 handling is the answer, do not agree to give a clear signal for money to do so in order to bring it forward more quickly, rather to support a proposal to support the corresponding whole electricity charge for such power plants. On the other hand, there is broad agreement to establish a centre of end-user technology in Rogaland. Building on the environment there would be very sensible. In the transport sector, too, there is a high potential for the use of more natural gas. We have several successful gas buses projects that should be continued, and we also want new projects to be welcomed. Then there is probably also a need to provide some financial support for buses and filling stations. I am somewhat surprised that the Government in the Storing Message is so negative to this, for there it says: ‘In total, therefore, it is not possible to extend the level of gas in road traffic.’ This is a strange attitude when it has been proven to have produced such good results, for example. in Bergen, in the case of air quality improvement. In several places, there is also a good opportunity to use gas ferries. The Haljem–Sandvikvåg stretch south of Bergen is an example of this. By building three gas ferries on this route, the NOx emissions will be reduced by about 80 pst. relative to the conventional ferries option. The current ferry company, HSD, wants to build gas ferries, but needs framework conditions that enable this. I had hoped that through the work on this message we could have obtained a binding decision that had made it possible to realize several gas ferries. But here too, the bulk of the population is asking for more government assessments before any concrete decisions are to be taken. The use of natural gas can be bridged to the hydrogen society. Most people probably think that it's a bit until we have the technology that makes it economically possible to use hydrogen on a large scale. But there are many interesting projects going on in several places in the country. For example, I want to do this. mentioned the Green Hydrogen project on Notodden, and I am pleased that there is broad support for this project to continue. On the point of green certificates for new renewable energy, binding decisions are now being taken, and this is absolutely necessary. The government proposes in the message that the establishment of a mandatory green certificate market should be put on ice until we have an international market in place. This is contrary to what both the environmental movement and the power industry want. I am therefore pleased that there is so much support for establishing a mandatory green certificate market for new renewable energy, and that the Government is required to make a concrete proposal as soon as possible, by spring 2004. This will speed up the development of renewable energy and could also make an important contribution to the supply of electricity. Work on the gas message has been an exciting and interesting work. Not least, the enormous commitment around the country has made a strong impression on me, and I also believe in many others. I would therefore hope that we had come even further in making concrete and binding decisions. However, the Workers' Party will continue to be drivers to take a greater share of natural gas into use in the future. Odvar Nordli wrote in the book «We saw the corn mollusks – about dream and everyday life»: ‘Unemployment is wasted with the greatest wealth of a society, man’s own ability and will to create something.’ That is what the fight is all about. Therefore, it is important to act now, and not to take a waiting and looking attitude, as the majority suggests on essential points. Finally, I would like to address the proposals on which the Labour Party stands alone or with other parties, and I would also like to address the proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber, but there is a typographical error. That proposal is not just from the Labour Party, it is on behalf of the entire Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e175	The representative Sylvia Brustad has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e180	It is alarming that Brustad uses much of his post to criticise the government and the government fraction here in this hall for refusal and lack of political will. I have to remind Brustad that it is this government that has presented the first gas message of the times, precisely because one wants to develop forward-looking strategies for domestic use of gas. The government fraction follows up and takes in today's setting responsible grips to withstand daylight. Workers' party governments before us, of whom Brustad himself has been a member, have had the full opportunity to be equally offensive, without that happening. But something has happened to the Workers' Party and their former state councils. Reversely proportional to the party's inception, populism increases. It's going to be all wrong, both factually and seriously, to those who have serious expectations about the state as a partner, if we were to see in the billions what gas pipes to Grenland, for example, are going to cost, and make decisions on such a vague basis. Hasn't the Workers' Party learned some things from political nutrition projects like Mongstad, the Flytrain and now fornebu? Not least in the interests of the cooperating actors, the State has an obligation to proceed in an orderly manner and to act in a orderly manner. Populism is bad for industrial construction, and has proved to be painful for those affected. It has earned neither Grenland nor anywhere else in the country. In concrete terms, therefore, the question is: is there Hydro’s cost estimate for gas pipelines to Grenland of DKK 3.7 billion or Statoil’s estimate of DKK 6-7 billion that underlies the Workers’ Party’s proposal of DKK 3 billion above the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e189	The most eye-catching thing in this line and in this case is not the Workers' Party's position, but it is perhaps the Right's position. I think maybe the attack that is now coming from the Right representatives comes because the Right innermost actually agrees with the Workers' Party, but has been overrun by others in their own government, to enter into another settlement. I see in Fädrelandsvenn from 25 March that Vest- Agder Røjres County Leader, Kirsten Huser Leschbrandt – she refers to the investigation on which the government parties have joined SV and the Center Party – says the following: ‘The postponement that is now taking place seems to be a substituting argument. Actually, you want to say no, and that's bad." The point in this case is that there have been investigations here for a number of years. Here, there are environments across the country that are aware of how to use the gas. We know more than enough to start. We know that 99 pst. of this gas goes straight out of the country without us being able to use any of it to create jobs in Norway. And then the answer from the government parties, along with SV, that no, now we're going to figure out even more. This happens at a time when unemployment increases every day. I would like to remind you that with the Bondevik administration we have 75 new job vacancies every day. That means that we have no days to lose in terms of creating new jobs. What makes me suspicious is that the government parties choose to join SV in this case. I have a great deal to say about SV, but in this case there is no doubt that SV might be the party in Norway that is interested in using at least gas. Therefore, there is reason to be concerned about the investigation proposal they have now agreed on. I believe that the Right now tries to attack the Workers' Party because they are not very well in this company and with the agreement they have now entered into. I think we can say straight back that this is forward-looking and absolutely necessary for our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e203	After hearing the representative Brustad, you can ask questions about the Workers' Party knows what they want in the field of gas and energy policy. The working party fires entitled to the Government and wants to build a gas power plant immediately. At the same time, the Workers' Party must take account of its own climate policy, which in practice puts an end to gas power plants in the event of CO2 management requirements. This also follows up the head of the Workers' Party, Jens Stoltenberg, when he said to Telemarksavias on 20 March that the important thing is not how many gas power plants are being built, but that the emissions are within the limits that Norway is obliged to keep. In other words, the consequence of the Labour Party’s policy is that CO2 emissions from gas power plants must be included in today’s quota emissions. Thus, Norwegian industry and industry have to make further emission reductions, with significant costs, if gas power plants are built. At the same time, the Workers' Party is a champion of taking the majority of emission reductions in Norway, thus reducing the possibility of making reasonable reductions in emissions abroad. The question to the representative Brustad is therefore: Is the climate policy of the Workers' Party still the issue, or is it only a party speaker, Stoltenberg, who is involved in the construction of gas power stations?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e214	We don't have party speeches, either in the case of gas power plants, and I think many have brought them. We have clearly stated that all use of gas in Norway, both in industry and in energy purposes, should take place within our climate commitments and our international commitments in general in relation to the environment – and that should be lacking. There the Labour Party and the Advance Party separate very layers, because there is nothing that the Advance Party is concerned about at all. We believe that when we're so clear about it not least this winter has shown us that there's an incredibly large gap between what we're using and what we're producing, it's absolutely necessary to get gas power plants in place. We are very much in order to obtain gas power stations with CO2 handling as quickly as possible, but it will take some time. That's why we've also given a very clear signal that we're going to go in by 250 million. NOK over a ten-year period to research and develop that kind of technology, so we get this faster. We have also said that we should support such power plants, but while waiting for it, we have to make sure that people don't pay as high electricity bills as they have done this winter, and that they can risk paying the next winter and the winter after that, if you don't do anything. Then we're going to have a huge investment in renewable energy, but we also have to build gas power plants. That's why we've said that if those who have been granted a concession won't build, then there must be a concession for others who are interested in building. And I think there can be energy companies in Norway that will. So the call must be: search! Then I also hope that the Government is prepared to grant it, and that it is not stuck in a legal notion that it is not possible to move concessions if necessary. I think it is rather embarrassing that the energy nation of Norway has faced a situation where we are not able to provide enough power for industry and the population without having to experience as high prices as they are now, and we are also going to do this within the commitments we have promised.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e225	It is the last reply from the representative Sylvia Brustad that actually tells what this is about, because there will be few who will disagree that it makes sense to use gas for industrial purposes. But it's clear that there's no economy in this, because the volume of gas, if you're going to build pipelines, is so big that it won't be economically profitable at all. This means that at the other end of a gas pipe there will be a gas power plant. When Sylvia Brustad specifically accuses the government parties that they are now entering into a settlement with SV, it shows how unreasonable this is. When Onarheim and others in the Right agree with SV, that shows the balance and the weight of what will be adopted here, simply because I think most will understand that, for example. The representative onarheim hardly is particularly anti-industrial – to use such a word. That means that what lies at the other end of this gas pipeline, which the Workers' Party wants the Storting to subsidize by $3 billion above the table without having any sense of where to go or how to use this money, is, of course, – whether it is populism – irresponsible. What has been discussed here is a sensible approach to this problem: how can we use gas in a sensible way and within the framework of the climate obligations imposed on the nation by the Storting? That means that this is a balance. This means taking into account industry and value creation, but, of course, it is necessary to take account of the environment and the same obligations that the Workers' Party has accepted and, of course, is also actively fighting for. That means that what may surprise us most in today's debate is that the Workers' Party has chosen a position that makes them have no influence at all on this and has no influence whatsoever on how this should go ahead, namely having these two thoughts or this balance in their heads at the same time. No one can be surprised that SV, or for that matter the Government, does not want to build a large gas power plant without CO2 cleaning once, and at the top of everything with state money at the bottom. This is what should worry Sylvia Brustad. Clearly, we are interested in moving forward in a dialogue with the Government on these issues, in order to find sensible solutions. But that, of course, does not require gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e238	It is interesting to be accused by the party SV of being populistic in a case where the Workers' Party proposes money to this infrastructure company to build pipes and LNG receivers that do not burden the expenditure side of the state budget and that do not compete with kindergartens and hospitals – and it should be known to the representative Djupedal, who is in the Finance Committee. And it's clear from the setting, if the representative Djupedal had read it carefully. I think now we've gotten the cat out of the bag – or whatever it's called. Now, the representative named Djupedal said that there won't be any economy in building a pipe, if there isn't a gas power plant at the other end. And gas power plants don't want SV. In other words, this cannot be interpreted in any other way than that SV is also against building pipes, for example. to Grenland. That is a perfectly fair position. But what SV has tried in this matter is to ride two horses. On the one hand, they do not dare to say clearly that they do not want it, because they do not want to use gas in Norway, and on the other hand they do not dare to say the opposite. But SV has clearly stated what they mean in several contexts, and I think SV should be honest to say that. At the latest in this year's budget setting, SV says: ‘These are the reasons why these members are in favour of a strong increase in the appropriations for energy research and, in contrast, continue to invest in the introduction of natural gas.’ The allocation was set to zero, from 30 million. kr to zero. Is it really so that the government parties and the Central Party believe that SV will be involved in building gas infrastructure in Norway? I don't think so. And the proposal that the government originally had on the table for that was to use Enova in competition with wind, water and other things, and a few million. All of us who are in this room and have adopted government budgets year after year know that there will be no gas of it. There will be no gas infrastructure, where the primary thing is to create jobs. Then I think SV should be so honest to say that it is more important now to raise a tab with the environment, which I think we are doing very well with our arrangement, and it is more important than creating badly needed industrial workplaces. I mean it's possible to do both.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e252	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e256	Today's debate on the nomination of the Energy and Environment Committee to St.meld. No 9 is important for Norway. It is not least important for the many coastal communities that see an opportunity for new industry, new value creation, based on the supply of natural gas. It is gratifying that there is a solid majority to take a greater part of the Norwegian base natural gas in domestic use. Nevertheless, it is a pity that the Committee has been divided on the question of how to ensure that the use of gas is fair domestically valued. We must not risk that good intentions end up as loss projects both for local investors and the state as a co-investor in infrastructure because planning is not good enough. Norway has traditionally been a commodity exporter. Only to a small extent do we have the power to process all the rich natural resources with which we are blessed – not least fish, oil and gas. In addition, we export quite a lot of semi-finished products, among other things. based on electricity. But only in a few areas in Norway have we made the transition to further processing and branding internationally. There is no doubt that this makes us more vulnerable to international economics than if we had built strong market positions on finished products. In the case of natural gas, it may be used in industrial processes such as raw materials, as an energy carrier, as a basis for biochemical processes and for electricity generation. It is also the case that when natural gas is used in such processes, heat/hot water is often created that may be important in secondary processes. This may, for example: be associated with fish farming, the production of smolt and juveniles. It is from this point of view that I am pleased to say that there is such a wide disintegration of the industrial opportunities offered by the domestic use of natural gas. At the same time, while natural gas is the least polluting fossil energy source, it is important to set environmental requirements for the lowest possible greenhouse gas emissions in the processes. We must not forget that we have major challenges in implementing the emission reductions to which the Kyoto Protocol commits us. If we are to succeed in creating new industrial activity and new optimism around the country, we need to find acceptable ways to get the gas landed. Where a high gas demand can be established and identified, the construction of transmission pipes will be the most natural, while elsewhere LNG/CNG facilities will make sense in order to be able to accept boatloads of refrigerated or compressed gas. Both methods require large investments. The majority of the Committee therefore wishes the Government to speed up its efforts to identify the interests of using the gas, to estimate likely needs, and to assess the extent and manner in which the State can co-finance such infrastructure. So far, the most elaborate project is gas pipeline to Grenland. The most profitable and realistic option, according to local stakeholders in the Telemark Gas Forum, is a dry gas and wet gas combination. Such a pipe will meet a need for existing industrial processes in Grenland, both to Norsk Hydro and to Borealis, and at prices that should be more reasonable than current boat transport. Nevertheless, many questions need to be considered more closely in this most mature project. What other industrial users can be put on the road? How much quantity can we count on in the long term? Where should the gas come from? In the case of dry gas, there is hardly any problem where it is to come from, but it is necessary to ensure that wet gas is also available for such combination pipes. And further: where to put the pipe to ensure the best possible trajectory, and what possibilities can be put in to be able to build branch pipes into other reception facilities, e.g. to Eastfold and West Sweden? And what will such a pipe cost? The estimates from our most experienced companies, Statoil and Hydro, crack from NOK 3.75 billion to between NOK 5 billion and NOK 6 billion. I feel that it is absolutely necessary to get more knowledge of these issues before we make investment decisions. Similar assessments must be made at other alternative landing sites. Against this background, it is strange, in order to use a very cautious expression, that some co-representatives in the Committee on the Media and in lectures say that this has been done enough, now we just have to get started! I expect that it is not that kind of irresponsibility in Stortinget when it comes to reality. But when it comes to impatience in getting started, I'm dividing it. The majority therefore argues that the investigations must be carried out as quickly and efficiently as possible in cooperation with interested industry and industry associations. In the form of proposals, the majority have asked the Government to come back with such assessments by spring 2004. The majority further requests that infrastructure financial instruments, including: the establishment of a State company to participate in the financing is assessed at the same time. So it's not like the majority is asking for the case to be postponed. There should be full pressure on the matter, and I am sure that the interested industry also sees the need to know a little about what is profitability, and what is the possibility on these issues. A central point of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party is clearly that they will already have established the State company with a significant capital. Although I understand that NOK 3 billion on the book is now better than NOK 3 billion on the roof, it is a recognised principle that such companies should not be set up until they know what to do and what tasks to do. I'm glad that the committee is committed to the creation of a state-owned innovation company located in Grenland. The Committee has wanted to extend the mandate of the company somewhat, precisely because the industrial competence of Grenland goes beyond pure research into CO2 management in gas power plants. Among other things, it would be natural for the company to be responsible for the development of hydrogen and possibly petrochemistry. Once again, there is disagreement as to when the financing of the company should be in place and what resources it really is. In this area, too, the majority believe that the Government must come back quickly with a financial plan for the company. It is also desirable that the company be set up faster than proposed in the notification. It is important that this innovation company cooperates closely with other research communities in the country in order to obtain good solutions as quickly as possible. I refer here in particular to the research communities in Trondheim, which are well advanced in these areas. Furthermore, the Committee agrees with the establishment of a National Centre of Competence in Haugaland. It is necessary to clarify the responsibilities between the Directorate for Fire and Explosive Protection and the proposed Centre in terms of fire and safety. In this respect, I refer to the new proposal by the Committee. There is also broad agreement to establish an obligatory green certification system. The majority point to the importance of creating a Norwegian/Swedish market for green certificates and the possibility of subsequent adaptation to a wider international system. Such a scheme will enable faster progress to be made towards the emergence of new renewable energy sources. It would be a great advantage to market-based such a development. It will provide as much new renewable energy as possible per year. krone invested. It will seem predictable and provide greater opportunities for involvement and new initiatives to bring forward the projects leading to the goal as quickly as possible. There are several opportunities for more environmentally friendly ferry and bus transport using natural gas. However, although there is little environmental benefit, this can be a good alternative to today’s fuel for a transitional period towards hydrogen/fuel cell technology. Now we all have to be involved in creating some optimism in the industry around the country. The most recent newspaper articles have not contributed to this. One of the instruments is the use of more domestic value added gas. The working party tries to create division in the government parties by proposing a more aggressive expansion of gas power plants. Of course, the government parties stand firm on the Sem Declaration, where it is clear that the three concessions to gas power plants, with the addition of Snow White, are those given with today's technology. At the same time, we refer to the Government's assurance that gas power stations built on the basis of these concessions should not have any worse framework conditions than similar works in the EEA territory. But additional concessions require CO2 management. This is why we want to invest so much in CO2 research. As soon as there are solutions to the CO2 problem that are also acceptable based on cost conditions, we will be ready to stimulate the use of gas also for electricity. Today's debate will show some of the most confusing things in the world of politics. The entire committee, perhaps with some reservations from SV, is very concerned and agrees to take a greater share of natural gas into domestic use. Everyone agrees that the State must contribute to the infrastructure to take the gas ashore. Everyone agrees with the creation of an innovation company in Grenland. Everyone agrees to speed up in time and extended mandates. Everyone agrees with the establishment of a centre of expertise in Haugaland. All agree to the establishment of a mandatory green certification market. Nevertheless, the debate will appear as if we were in complete disagreement. The distinction depends on how much money the state is going to bring in, and how fast. These are, of course, absolutely central questions, and I can understand the impatience of the Labour Party and the Advance Party. But did not allow the question of thorough processing and good planning to overshadow the message of a hard-pressed competitive industry. We want to use the gas in Norway, seize the opportunities to invest in new processes, new products and new start-ups. With rapid and thorough treatment in the Government, we should be able to start developing infrastructure without delay and with greater certainty that the decisions really provide optimism and increase long-term value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e297	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e300	I understand that the representative onarheim has a strong need to try to create the impression that everyone in the committee agrees on most of the points in this case. I must say that I do not at all agree with that, because on the essential point, namely infrastructure, there is a clear disagreement. And now the representative Onarheim himself said that the party that might have had some reservations, to put it mildly, is in that way SV, and that is actually the party that Right now has chosen to cooperate with. There have been strong reactions to that compromise, including from the Right. I referred to one of them instead, and I want to mention two more. Irene Haugaa told his father's friend on 25 March that ‘She has much to do with the criticism expressed by Aps Sylvia Brustad after the government parties made compromises with SV in the question of how Norwegian gas should be used domestically’. The same criticism was also followed up by the rapporteur in Farsund, Ove Rullestad. The representative Onarheim was concerned that we have to create optimism in the industry, and it could actually have been on the right hand by taking a binding decision on what is about infrastructure. It will be a mistake when this is presented as if it is a bad treatment we are currently doing. So the issue of gas use in Norway has been investigated for many years in many places around the country, and I don't think there should be any doubt that by first going into an infrastructure company that is going to be used throughout the country, you would have got a very good provision in terms of creating badly needed jobs. The representative of Onarheim also heard the representative of Djupedal and has himself seen the position and comments of SV, and my question to the representative is: Does the representative of Onarheim feel comfortable by making a compromise with a party that so clearly indicates that using gas in Norway is not a particularly dangerous road?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e316	It's interesting to see where we agree in the setting, and how we disagree. I am fully aware that there are questions about money now or something later, and that it may be a big question for someone. But when it comes to who we want to work with, I agree that you have to choose your friends. On the other hand, in the political world there is a question of having a majority. I was out quickly and tried to invite the Workers' Party to work together on these questions. We didn't quite get there, and then we had to get a different majority, and we did that, and I'm glad. But what I don't understand, it's when the representative, Brustad, says this is done enough. Where's the pipe going? Where will the wet gas come from? How much will the pipe cost, just in Grenland? What about the other places? This has not been properly determined at all. That's why it's important that we don't get into such a situation as we had with the Flytrain and the Gardermo. We must not get into Mongstad situations either. It shouldn't be that we first get a company with money under the line, and then it goes a few years and we have to write it all off, and then it goes over the line. We need to be sure that we now get to do this in a way where both those who are going to contribute from the industry, and the state, feel secure that these projects are profitable. Without that, we're not going to move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e323	I think it was a pleasure to listen to Mr. Onarheim's posts, especially where he tried to explain the consequences of the alliance with SV. The lot Right has for many years tried to present itself as a batch that is on the business side. If this has been the case in the past, I do not know, but at least notice that this is not the case now. Representatives from the Right still hold, after what I have heard, celebrations about value creation and industrial travel, but vote against in this room every single time it's about concrete action. I would therefore like to ask the representative of Onarheim, who has extensive experience in industry and business, whether he feels comfortable with a situation where his party Right, along with SV, now appears as the main brake blocks for just economic development, value creation and new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e332	I feel very comfortable with profitable jobs. I feel very uncomfortable if we ask someone to invest in something that doesn't turn out to be profitable. So planning is important. But let's just go back a little bit and look at some of the projects we've had. Let me, for example. take the FATIMA project, which is one of them, where a unanimous control committee underlines the importance of the Stortinget being presented with good and timely projects with realistic cost frameworks. Does the Progress Party and the Workers' Party really feel that there is a present in this matter? – At least it has not been brought to the Committee in a good way. Let me go on to say that in budget-inner. S. No 9 for 2000–2001 was a question of what to do to stimulate natural gas. That's it. ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Advance Party, is in favour of the wish to increase domestic gas use.’; - That's it! The FrP then cancelled the entire allocation, while all the others went in for an increased allocation. I feel quite comfortable that if the department manages to meet the demands we are now making, they will come back to the Stortinget with good suggestions, good opportunities to contribute to infrastructure so that we get a good infrastructure to use domestic gas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e348	After hearing the article from the representative Onarheim, in the extension of the NHO's proposal to create jobs, I felt that there was a abdominal landing at the end. He doesn't really want to do anything because he joined a multiple of SV, and the whole setting is saturated by the fact that a person doesn't really want to use the gas. It could be a happy day today if one got to a multiple for the use of gas. I would think that those who built up our water resources a hundred years ago would turn to the grave if they had heard what former NHO Chief Onarheim said in his post about above and below the line for which one could invest. Here one should come to a deal that would now do something for the industry. Of course, one should come back to Stortinget with a very specific project and with what costs it will have. So today one could say yes, we want the Storting saying to the Government that we want to be involved and invest in infrastructure. Think of an order it might have been for the government to come back to the Storting and say that it costs so much to add it to Grenland, it costs so much if we're going to have it here. – Then the Storting could start later and be entirely concrete, so that one would not get into the situation of Onarheim and all of us are busy when it comes to overshooting. So today one could say yes, if one hadn't joined a multiple of the government parties and SV, which says that one really doesn't want to use the gas. I miss the offensive Right in industrial policy, as I have heard Onarheim so many times before, but the offensive Right was now absent, and he had to budge against the compromise.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e359	Although it has been a long time since I was a ski jumper and took a telemarket strike, I do not feel that we have a abdominal landing here. On the contrary – I have never been part of any project for quite a number of years in business where you first grant the money, and then you see how to use them and what kind of projects you have. We have to have the projects up. We have to see how much it costs. We have to look at the division of responsibilities between the private and the public. Then we'll see what we can use the gas for -- in a more sensible way. We have to be willing to take that round, and it's clear that it will also work party, it's just that they want you to give the money first. I think it's absolutely right to take this in the right order. What are we going to do? How much do we need for infrastructure? How much is to be contributed by the State? How many industrial enterprises can we get up to make this work well? We have to do this in the right time and in the right way. For all large investments of between 7 and 20 billion dollars, it is important that you have a plan before you start.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e366	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e369	Today could be a happy day. Today could be historic. Today could be the day that the Stortinget adopted a national strategy for domestic use of gas for industrial development, value creation and employment. Today could be the day that Norwegian industry and Norwegian industry have been waiting for years to make use of our huge gas resources both as a source of energy and as a raw material. But it wasn't like that! Government parties and SV have now entered into an alliance that trains the development of Norway as a gas nation for several years. The size has been waiting for two and a half years for two governments to complete the so-called gas message. The result was not impressive, but Stortinget got at least some kind of description of reality it had been possible to build on further. – And so have some of us. The fact that the party SV, as we all know, is allergic to gas, which is opposite most of the industry in this country, is countering the use of gas resources, must not come as a surprise to anyone. When the party Christian People's Party, which almost has a religious resistance to gas power, and which in winter has shown to the world that they have nothing in the vicinity of an energy policy, trains industrial development and value creation, neither does it surprise. But the fact that the Right Party would be involved in preventing the exploitation of our gas resources in this way is both astonishing and disappointing. The Right Party, which for many years has produced itself as the business party before anyone, is now showing its true face, when they consciously participate in postponing the use of our gas resources to industrial development and value creation for years. And I am now recording with regret that many of the plans that industry had, both in the Grenland area and elsewhere, have to be scrapped or, at best, postponed. The Progress Party will facilitate both business, industry and the Norwegian people to benefit from our enormous gas resources. Infrastructure is therefore necessary to distribute the gas to places where industry and industry can benefit from it. We therefore propose that the development of gas main pipelines should be made a matter of public responsibility. We also propose to set up a state-owned company to carry out assessments, investigations and financing of gas infrastructure, and that the company be allocated DKK 5 billion in equity in the first place. There are now a number of industrial companies that are interested in using gas both as an energy source and as a raw material, and there will be more if we get the infrastructure in place. Most of these industries are not able to make the necessary investments in infrastructure on their own, and this is, of course, due to the fact that the volumes for each of them become too small. It is therefore essential that the State establish and assume responsibility for this infrastructure, as has been done by the State in terms of electricity infrastructure. We imagine that the state company will have the same responsibility for gas distribution as Statnett today for the central network in the power supply. In order to raise the volumes of gas distribution, of course in addition to improving the power balance, gas must be used for power generation as soon as possible. There are today three concessions for the development of gas power plants in Norway: in Forests, in Kårstø and in Kollsnes. None of these are currently in use. There are several reasons for this. Both gas prices and electricity prices have, of course, been significant, but the main reason for this is political uncertainty, among other things. around future emission requirements and the costs of such requirements. And, of course, infrastructure is essential to get Industrikraft Mid-Norway's project going on in Forest. It is also, of course, essential for those building gas power plants that all economic facts are on the table before an investment decision can be made. On 9 March 2000, the Storting decided that Norwegian gas power plants should have the same framework conditions as others in the EEA area. It doesn't seem like the actors who have been given concessions have particular confidence in this, and I understand them very well. You can only read the settings we are dealing with today, where the Progress Party and the Workers' Party are behind a similar proposal. Unfortunately, the right has fallen off the load here too. In addition, we in the Progress Party will have to cover the costs of any specific emission requirements by those making such anti-competitive requirements, namely the Norwegian State. In addition, we will facilitate further concessions for gas power plants, in addition to the three that have been given. Interesting areas for this are, for example, Grenland, Østfold, Risavika in Rogaland, Mongstad and the Tent Goods, but also elsewhere can be relevant. It is unfortunately a fact that the political uncertainty surrounding gas power stations has not been eliminated in any way during the treatment of this notification. It is totally incomprehensible to me that the majority in this room will not use our gas resources for power generation. This misunderstood policy on symbols or, more precisely, a lack of environmental policy is, of course, the direct reason why we have to import large quantities of highly polluting coal power and nuclear power. I do not know whether «frustrate policy» is a parliamentary expression, but unfortunately I do not find any expression that is equally comprehensive. It is also quite possible for the bulk of the population to use large amounts of energy in pressure support to pump the gas out of the country, in order to later import the power produced from the same gas. And here too, large amounts of energy disappear in the transmission system. I stood on this platform a little over three years ago when the energy message was being processed and said that the small thing had been done in terms of gas use in Norway, despite the central authorities rather than with the help of the central authorities. And I'm sorry that this is even more true today. The treatment of the energy message three years ago was an incentive for us to have a proper overall strategy for the use of gas in Norway. Now, three years later, I regret to note that we are still at rest, and will do so for at least two more years. I think it's pretty amazing that an energy storm power like Norway is capable of rotating it this way and not grasping the enormous possibilities we have. We could today give the start-up shot for a large amount of gas use in Norway and make this important energy resource available to large parts of the country. Unfortunately, this was not the case. The communication also deals with hydrogen, which will in the future be one of our main energy carriers, and I am pleased that a unanimous collapse is in place to set up a national hydrogen sample to formulate national targets and the necessary measures to develop hydrogen as an energy carrier and a domestic value creation tool. I am also pleased that the Stortinget asks the Government to take an initiative on a green certificate market, which will be dealt with in the Stortinget later. Of course, we will come back to this later, but it is crucial for us what is to be included in this licence market, and that it is as widely anchored as possible internationally. I would like to include in the vote the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e420	The representative of Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The President may otherwise confirm that ‘frustrate policy’ is not a parliamentary expression, so he asks the representative to devise something more appropriate. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e428	Of course, the use of gas domestically for industrial, transport and other purposes is greedyly important, but it requires long-term planning of those to do so, and not least some political decisions are also required to do so. It is clear that in this case the Progress Party is in charge of the Labour Party that the State must also participate in infrastructure, because it is important that the State be involved if one is to be able to use gas domestically. But being long-term is also important. So I'm worried that the Progress Party is acting a little random on different issues. We're not going back more than two years, until one was going to create a government agency outside Oslo that would administer funds and put in place measures to convert energy use and energy production. Then the Progress Party said, "No, we don't want this to happen, and we don't want to spend state resources on it." Here you can see the free competition between the various energy sources that will determine where to put the bet. It's clear that if you're not willing to be long-term, you're willing to tell the state to join, it's going to be very difficult for those who plan. My question is: is it that the Progress Party has now completely changed its attitude, or can one to the next year again expect new proposals for government not to join? At the end of the day, I have a question that concerns bets on buses and ferries to reduce emissions. I'm surprised that the Progress Party doesn't want to go as far as the Labour Party. They're in charge of government parties, for example. in the case of gas ferries and assessment of back-up arrangements. [[The President clubs.]] Could not have been a little bit more concrete and say: now are we going to make sure that the ferries go on gas? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e439	The President requests that representatives ask the question before speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e442	I am pleased that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party are united to want to build infrastructure for gas. Of course, I agree with the representative of Frøiland that we need long-termity in such work. The representative of Frøiland asked questions about the establishment of Enova, which the Progress Party was quite right against. It is because the Progress Party was and is concerned that an increase should be based on the individual’s financial gain, that one should not impose additional charges in order to establish a national, public and bureaucratic body. Then to buses and ferries. That's right, as it was said, that we probably have a slightly different view there. The Progress Party is concerned that, of course, we should use larger gas resources, but also that, in addition to that, we should make greater use of tenders for such things. Here we have to weigh the costs against the gain by using gas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e451	The progress game had a good logic at the end. They said they were some of the things that SV and the others behind the deal go in for when it comes to a hydrogen selection. That's why you want to get an explanation about this first, so that you see what you're going to do, see how reasonable it is to bet on this, and see what kind of financial means you need. So the question is, why don't they use the same logic when it comes to infrastructure? Why is it not that a first one should work out and e.g. a second one? See what industry in Grenland needs? What should the State contribute? What, if any, should private contribute to me? What type of pipe should it be? Should there be a pipe from Border to CO2 deposit? Is it not important to get answers to these questions before getting a HIV money into the project? My first question is: Should a person not use the same logic altogether, simply figure out which direction to go, and then see how much money is needed, and according to that decision? The second question relates to the bridging of the Progress Party with anyone other than himself in relation to, among others. energy production. Now, quite clearly, the Workers' Party, through announcements in Grenland, has made it clear that they will also build gas power plants. But what surprises me is that the Progress Party always forgets who actually rules in this country, who actually adopted the budget in this country. It's just the Progress Party. Why hasn't the Progress Party been able to accomplish everything they're talking about today, when they actually have multiple conversations with the Government? And what will happen now in relation to the budgetary agreement? Will the Progress Party now be able to implement some of the policies they are talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e462	I understand that the representative Langeland and SV will have further investigations on the gas infrastructure, and will not go right on the matter. So the Stortinget has been waiting for three years since we dealt with the energy message, on which the representative of Langeland was also present. We in the Progress Party believe that there have been exposed walls up and down. Now we have more than enough to deal with. If the representative of Langeland had read Document No. The 8-proposal from the Progress Party on responsibility for infrastructure authority, he had understood this. With regard to the budget, it is right that the Progress Party should alternatively vote in favour of a negotiated proposal. That's right, as the representative Langeland says. But when it comes to climate policy, for example, the SV and the Government have come together, and unfortunately that is also happening here today. That means, unfortunately, we're going to have to postpone any development in the field of gas for at least two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e471	The representative Vaksdal started out very heavily in his post, as if he had been with and created the Skebnesymphony of Beethoven. It almost sounded like this, for the husband of the way to talk negativity and pessimism into the Norwegian industry I haven't heard in a very long time. It's a responsibility of course the Progress Party must take on, instead of trying to talk optimism into industry and business. Many have raised the issue of procedures and procedures here. We have tried to challenge the Workers' Party without a response, and have not received a response from the Advance Party. I will raise the following questions in relation to the investigation: Who has specifically investigated this? It must be Vaksdal's answer, because he has had time to find out who has specifically investigated it. That's the one. The second is, have state authorities ever done this? He must answer yes or no. And does Waksdal consider it a solar duty for any government to put a lot of money into a project, to carry out investigations and analyses in advance? Or should it go as it did in connection with FATIMA, where the Progress Party considered raising national law against the then State Council Opseth for poor investigation work in connection with a project of 625 million. Do you really want to delete this item? Now you're adding 5 billion kroner over the table without the state even figuring this out. Is this proper procedure? Finally, let me again ask a question to the Progress Party. Is it so that the Progress Party has some new moments to put on the table, as the sum has been adjusted along the way in the process – from DKK 4 billion to NOK 5 billion? What calculations do you put at the bottom of that change? Let me also ask: Was the Progress Party really interested in a settlement? I don't think so. It was probably first and foremost a party marking that was the most important thing for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e484	The representative, Brother Yngve Rahm, thought I was black-painting the situation a little in my post. What I was trying to do was give the most correct description of reality. As far as I'm concerned about what I said from this pulpit, I know that in much of the industry in Grenland, in Rahm's own home country, you think exactly the same thing as I do. So he asks me what concretely I base myself on. The government has provided a big message on which I base myself. The Progress Party has presented a comprehensive Document No. Eight proposals. I expected the chairman of the committee to have at least read these documents.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e491	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e494	We are very pleased with the agreement between SV and the government parties, which we regard as a continuation of the climate agreement last year. SV believes that energy saving, energy conversion and renewable energy are more important objectives than the highest possible use of natural gas. Natural gas can be an instrument to reduce environmental pressures, but increased use of gas is not an objective in itself. Norwegian industry is already a major user of gas as a raw material, and it is natural that this is further developed. SV is positive for the use of gas as raw material in industry, e.g. for the production of plastics, or a reasonable use of gas for energy purposes where gas actually displaces oil or alternatives that are environmentally worse. However, we see concerns about cost-intensive pipeline projects, including: due to the cost of society, the duration of payments, inflated volume estimates and low flexibility of transport. It is also clear that no planned natural gas pipeline projects in Norway will be economically sound without requiring one or more gas power plants for each pipeline project. This also stands in the setting, so it should not come as a surprise to the representative Brustad that this is SV's view. Due to Norway’s geographical design and low population density, gas transported by boat will be a far more flexible option, which will increase the potential for gas to actually contribute to environmental improvements through reduced emissions and for natural gas not to replace or block bioenergy and other renewable energy. These dilemmas, as well as the major technological and market uncertainty surrounding gas power stations with so-called CO2 management, indicate that the choice of any infrastructure needs to be further explored. SV is therefore very pleased that the government parties accepted our extensive hand and offered a settlement to continue to agree on climate policy and a comprehensive energy and gas policy. In the setting, we agree that we need to determine what shipping of gas on ships or in pipes means for the industry, the environment and the whole of the Norwegian energy system. The government shall assess the economic aspects of the development of such infrastructure, including profitability considerations and different forms of financing with State participation. These assessments shall be submitted to the Storting as soon as possible, but no later than in the spring of 2004. At the same time, a wide-ranging national hydrogen range shall be set up to formulate national targets and necessary measures for the development of hydrogen as an energy carrier and a domestic value creation tool. And it is clear that the investigation of infrastructure solutions and the work of the hydrogen committee will be coordinated in time. This is important in order to be able to draw exchange conclusions from the hydrogen sample in finding the appropriate solutions in relation to infrastructure. The use of natural gas in Norway as an industrial raw material must be ensured with good framework conditions. But that doesn't mean it's free to put gas pipes in every fjord and valley, to every business and every home. For heating and electricity, Norway shall rely on renewable energy sources and waterborne heat. Therefore, the Government is also required to implement a State guarantee scheme to speed up the development of environmentally friendly and flexible district heating and to introduce a mandatory market for green energy certificates. This will also mean many jobs. There are several things that SV has also had an impact on, and we will come back to that later in the debate. However, it is most important that this setting is a victory both for the environment and for the long-term and stable workplaces. The environmentally hostile and unsolidarous gas flow from the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the tops of the LO are not only bad energy policies; they are also bad business policies. Now I should perhaps say that the sympathies of the Workers' Party and the LO are greater than those of the Progress Party, which rejects the whole issue of greenhouse gas emissions and the greenhouse effect. But it's actually easier to be overbearing with a party that's decided to close its eyes and ears than with a party and an organization that claims to have solidarity as its foundation. They should know better than to add to a policy for a massive increase in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. It makes no sense to establish a state company with billions of equity without knowing what to do. Fortunately, the Government is committed to climate policy and to the resistance to gas power plants. This gives room for a shift towards an environmentally friendly energy policy. The industry, on the other hand, has recorded that SV and the Government's settlement mean getting facts on the table. Alternative solutions for gas generation to relevant domestic users and use environmentally friendly, without destroying climate policy, shall be explored. It's time. Norwegian Hydro invests DKK 1 billion in a new chlorine factory in Grenland and thinks in the long term. And a wide national hydrogen range is going to eliminate hydrogen as an energy carrier. Both contribute to increased value creation and job creation. The address book even wrote on Saturday's leadership seat that ‘The settlement is a necessary corrigendum to Frp and Ap which has proposed to use billions for gas pipelines without even assessing the consequences of such a formidable investment’. And the newspaper believes that there is little reason to be confused by the workers' crunchy reactions: ‘In this case, the party – which traditionally describes itself as responsible – has allowed itself to be tempted by pure populism in companies with Frp. It speaks for itself when Brustad tries to imagine most people that decisions about the use of natural gas — almost overnight — will lead to the acute energy shortage that hit us this winter to hear the story. This is hesitated.’ But even more seriously, the Address Paper believes that the Workers' Party is also willing to reduce normal security requirements for potential investments in the billions class, justified by the fact that there is now time for action. SV and the Government's gas settlement are a comprehensive energy policy. The Workers' Party's campaign to increase Norwegian CO2 emissions, recently realised with demands for gas power plants in Grenland, makes a comprehensive energy and climate policy impossible. However, if SV will not contribute to securing gas to Grenland, the question is: Of course, 6,000 people in torch make impressions, and of course we understand the fear that many people have of losing their jobs. At the same time I must also remember that Grenland has gas today, but today the gas comes to Grenland by boat. So the question is, is the state going to help finance a gas pipeline to Grenland? We have been presented with different cost estimates for such a pipeline. Gassco, the state’s own plumbing company, operates at NOK 6-8 billion. And then my question is, isn't this cost that requires a thorough investigation? In addition, it has been pointed out from Western environments that it will actually be much cheaper to invest in a continuing boat solution. According to Stavanger Aftenblad, the Knutsen Company in Haugesund says that three or four ships will be able to carry approx. Three million. cubic metres of natural gas per day, sufficient to meet the needs identified by Natural Gas Grenland, between 0.7 and 1 billion cubic metres per year, and a much more reasonable amount of money. Is it not natural, then, that this solution too is being properly investigated? The SV cannot be involved is that a gas power plant should be built in Grenland, as the Workers' Party wishes. This must also be problematic for the government parties, all the time when the Sem declaration obliges the deposit of CO2 from such a work, which means that in that case you will need two pipelines, in order to also transport CO2 back to a landfill. The overall gas settlement that SV and the Government have made illustrates once again that there is a majority in the UK for a good environmental policy, as it was in climate policy, if only the Government will. And it's not, given the composition of this big business and the government's Sem statement, a majority in this room for a strong commitment to conventional gas power plants. No one, even in LO circuits, could have seriously believed that SV would actively facilitate massively polluting gas power plants. And that's not because we don't like people jobs, but because we think we have a better recipe for how to create the jobs of the future. Maybe it's the LO and the Workers' Party that should start thinking a little bit new. In any case, it considers the daily newspaper, which, in a good analysis, claims: 'Environmental protection has not been, is not and will hardly be the case that causes the voters to vote Ap. But it could be a matter that makes the voters not vote for Ap, if environmental protection is again important by choice." In the long term, I hope that we will be able to bring the Workers' Party – and the trade union movement – into the development of the energy and industrial policy of the future and start the transformation of society towards the necessary ecological sustainability. This is a big project, and then we need all the good forces involved. With this, I will address the proposal SV has in conjunction with the Senterpartie in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e557	The representative of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e562	It is a sad day for the environment, and it is a sad day for the industry. It is a sad day for the unemployed, and it is a sad day for value creation in Norway today. Minister of Oil and Energy Einar Steensnæs wrote to the Committee during the discussion of the Snow White case that the marginal production of electricity in Norway was based on coal power. 14 TWh with gas power, we are currently producing on a Norwegian base with gas turbines with an output of up to 18 pst. SV writes in its notes that the lot is positive to ‘gases for energy purposes where gas passes oil or other alternatives that are worse for the environment’. However, on 22 March, the representative, Vaggen Malvik, said: ‘Norway is clearly going to use more of natural gas domestically.’ It could certainly be interesting for all of us, but especially for the concordants of SV, to know what SV really stands for. Does SV want Norway to invest in the gas industry? Does SV want us to replace the increased imports of fossil coal power with pure natural gas? Or does SV believe that it is not obvious that we should use Norwegian gas in Norway? In a month's time, the Minister of Oil and Energy will present plans for gas pipelines to England. Does SV think it makes more sense to put gas pipes into England and import the power back through Statnet's cables, which electricity customers have to pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e574	It seems to me that we have had this debate before. The SV's view of gas power is the same now as before, and what we mean in terms of energy policy is that we need to achieve an energy conversion that gives more water-borne heat, which provides more flexible energy systems. We have a majority in the position of a mandatory green certificate market, which means an increase in the investment in new renewable energy. This is the SV's solution, and we need to stay within the framework of the Kyoto Protocol and the constraints that climate policy actually imposes on our energy consumption. At the same time, I would like to say that I think it is a little naive to believe that a massive stake in gas pipes and gas power plants over the night will give a lot of jobs, which is a central part of the rhetoric of the Workers' Party. Today more than 90 000 people are unemployed, but it's not like if we had put gas pipes tomorrow, we would have created a lot of jobs. On the contrary, our policies are based on – and we have presented our own Document No. Eight proposals on this in Stortinget – how we can create jobs by spending DKK 2 billion, over 12,000 jobs, among others. by investing in new renewable energy. If we increase the transfers to Enova by 350 million. kr, and at the same time introduces, as we do today, a mandatory green certification market, we can quickly trigger more than 1000 jobs. I would like to remind you that a bioenergy investment will provide 400 district jobs for each TWh, while a gas plant will only provide seven jobs per year. TWh. In addition, the EU has estimated that 1 MW of installed wind power generation creates 15-19 jobs. This includes both production, sales, installation, operation and maintenance, and if Norway is to achieve our target of 3 TWh wind power by 2010, wind turbines with approx. 1000 MW installed power. It involves 15 000 annual works.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e581	First of all, I would like to congratulate the SV and the representative Vaggen Malvik on the victory. There is respect for the political craftsmanship that has been done, as SV has brought with it the government parties with the Right in the head to stop all the development of the use of gas in Norway for many years to come. This is good SV policy, as we have seen many examples of recent years. Disappear with industry, away with oil and gas activities and away with all the initiative and the desire for action! This is good Latin in SV circuits. However, I would like to ask the representative Vaggen Malvik what we are going to live on in this country if we are not to have any form of value creation. We can't live by cutting each other or moving papers and bonds.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e586	I choose to believe that this is due to the fact that the representative Vaksdal was a little inattentive when I responded to the reply from the representative Klungland here instead. I went to explain how we want to create jobs through an increased bet on, among other things. new renewable energy. When it's the way to achieve our goal of wind power means 15,000 mills, it's not small things. When a gas power plant provides only seven jobs per year TWh, while bioenergy provides 400 district jobs per year. TWh, is the number that the Progress Party should notice. The energy, climate and industrial policies of SV are interrelated. It's a logical line here. We want to create forward-looking, stable, secure jobs that we can also have far into the future, instead of evading state subsidies for example. the construction of gas power plants, which, in our opinion, are short-term policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e593	In the course of working with the gas message, there have been different signals as to what SV will enter for. A few days ago in the NRK Telemark, the online newspaper, one could read that SV planned to send the gas message back to the Government. Now we know that it didn't happen, and we all know about the deal, which the Center Party is also happy about and agree with. But that is not the case now. Because of the agreement, it might look like SV has gone a long way, but there are also some people who are wondering what SV really stands for. Now the Vaggen Malvik said a lot in his post. She talks a lot about the environment – which I fully agree with – and also a lot about investigations. My impression is that investigations have become a key element in this context. The question is: will SV only be involved in the investigation of alternative solutions for how to get gas to Grenland, and then let time go? Or will SV really have gas to Grenland, sailed without conventional gas power station? Will they go in to get the gas there, transported in a safe way, and that there will be plenty of access to what the industry there actually needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e600	First, I have to say that I'm glad that the Center Party has joined the conciliation. On the question of SV will guarantee gas to Grenland, the answer, as I said in my post, is that Grenland has gas today, but it comes by boat to Grenland. As far as the investigation is concerned, our whole main point is that we need to present the different cost estimates for a pipeline and compare them with the costs of boating. When Gasco operates with figures between 6 and 8 billion kroner for such a pipeline and with completely different figures for the environment in Grenland, there is a basis for looking at the evidence of what is behind these figures. We need to get facts on the table before we make the final decision. As I also said, there are environments in the West that have pointed out that a boat solution will be far, far cheaper. In order to be cost-effective, such an alternative solution should also be considered in the context of gas transport to Grenland. When the Knutsen Company believes that they can transport 3 million m3 of natural gas daily and meet the needs of Grenland at least today for a much more reasonable money, it is a solution that deserves a proper investigation. It must also be a solution that does not include the construction of gas power plants. It's a principle that's very important for SV. I also think it is the case that in this investigation in relation to the Grenland issue one must also consider what it might mean to assess a so-called gas power plant with CO2 management in Grenland in relation to a pipeline back to landfill CO2. SV has not yet concluded on the question of choosing infrastructure solutions for Grenland, and we have not concluded on State subsidies. First we want facts on the table. Then we're going to deal with the financial question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e613	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e619	Let me first point out that the challenges raised by several investigations in relation to the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have not been answered. We must take that as an expression that this is a pain point in the process chosen by the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. However, it is an important matter that Stortinget is dealing with today. For a long time, many eyes have been focused on both the presentation of the gas communication, the work of the committee, the release of the committee and today the final clearance in the Stortinget. St.meld. No 9 on the Government’s proposal for a comprehensive strategy for the use of natural gas domestically has aroused considerable interest. It is understandable in view of the opportunities for increasing environmentally friendly use of gas for more sectors, transport, energy purposes and for industrial processes. Also, in view of the significant challenges facing Norwegian industry, the commitment is understandable. Many areas of the country have noticed the consequences of, for example: a strong interest rate and high interest rates. The competitive power is tested, in particular for the export industry. The government has pursued an active policy of facilitating the competitiveness of Norwegian industry and of helping to secure jobs. A tight budgetary policy is beginning to produce results. The interest rate has fallen, and the interest rate is changing in the right direction. Of course, this does not mean that all problems are solved. The challenges remain high, and this is also in the perspective of increasing exposure to gas use in Norway. The Committee's travels in the course of its notification have made this impressive. Among other things, the people's meeting in Porsground made a strong impression. It also bears the hallmark of today's majority position. The majority take important forward steps for the vision of domestic gas use. There are several areas in which the notification of cancellations is made more concrete. The action now being taken shows the willingness to invest in Norwegian industry, to rethink in the transport sector, to facilitate new renewable energy through a mandatory green certificate market and to increase the commitment to the development and use of gas power with CO2 management. To date, Norway has used little of domestic gas resources. Therefore, the majority will contribute to the increased availability of gas in Norway. This opens up new optimism in many communities, while at the same time the environmental benefit is significant if the gas is used correctly. The Government proposes that the transport sector should be able to make greater use of natural gas to replace oil and diesel. Several gas-driven buses projects, including in Rogaland and Hordaland, have shown reduced emissions, in particular of NOx. At the same time, the use of gas buses will result in reduced greenhouse gas emissions and lower noise levels than diesel-fuelled buses. The majority, including the Christian People's Party, therefore refer to concluded agreements on support for gas buses and filling stations at an introductory stage, and that the further use of gas buses will depend on the granting of exemptions from the CO2 charge in order to avoid impaired offers or increased tariffs in public transport. It is, however, within the ferry transport sector that the maximum environmental benefits lie in the use of gas as a fuel. Several gas conversion projects are in progress and several sections facilitate the transition from diesel to gas. Emissions of NOx will be significantly reduced in line with our commitments under the Gothenburg Protocol. The Christian People's Party is therefore included in a majority that asks the Government to look at framework conditions and incentives to increase interest in gas ferries. This includes assessments of State investment guarantees, tendering conditions and concession conditions in order to reduce the uncertainty of any investment. I'm glad the majority is behind this. It's said that hydrogen is the energy bearer of the future. I agree. However, the government has evidence that hydrogen will play a significant role in the future energy market. The transport sector is one of the areas specifically designated for the use of hydrogen. There are a number of interesting hydrogen projects in Norway. In this context, I refer to the project ‘Green Hydrogen’ on the Notodden, which is already on the threshold of realising its plans for the use of hydrogen buses. It's a pleasure that a joint committee sees the value of this going on. However, the need for further research on hydrogen is great. The Christian People’s Party therefore supports the proposal for the creation of a wide-ranging hydrogen sample, which will formulate national targets and the necessary measures to develop hydrogen as an energy carrier and domestic value added instrument, and that this sample should present its suspension by the spring of 2004. The gas power issue has again appeared on the file through the processing of the notification, also linked to the establishment of infrastructure for the transport of natural gas. No new elements were generated in this process, in my opinion. The positions of the parties are known from the corresponding debate in 1999 and through the reconciliation of the Right and Christian People's Party in the Sem Declaration. Of course, this is firm. However, the government wants a stronger focus on the development of new technologies that can deliver gas power with CO2 handling as quickly as possible. Therefore, in addition to the concessions granted for the construction of gas power plants, no new non-CO2-handling concessions shall be granted. The strong focus on conventional gas power plants that the Workers' Party early posted in the notification challenged the bulk of storage in a way that weakened the possibility of a broad settlement. Of course, you should have seen that, and you should've sought a common approach. Parts of the Norwegian export-oriented industry have problems. Creating new optimism and a desire to invest is necessary. There are therefore important signals that the Storting is now sending through the processing of the gas message to the competitive industry, signals of willingness and commitment to secure businesses and workplaces. There is little doubt that greater supply of gas, in the context of a number of other instruments, could turn the development from pessimism to optimism for industry and business. A number of coastal locations will be relevant recipients of gas. Helgeland, Middle Norway, the West, Agder, South Norway with Grenland and Eastfold are examples of areas where gas access could have an impact on growth and new value creation. But the costs are significant. The Government therefore provides in the gas notification that it can contribute to the financing of gas transport infrastructure. The agreement concluded between the Government Parties and SV, supported by the Centre Party, therefore goes further and determines the country’s financial participation in this work. It is an important clarification that should create new optimism in industry and local communities. The same parties are now asking the Government to explore different alternatives, costs, environmental considerations and economic considerations in the various projects concerned. Furthermore, it is requested that the conclusions be presented no later than spring 2004. In this context, the organisation of this should also be considered – all in order to ensure that projects are as firmly anchored as possible. It has been claimed, partly in strong words, that the majority in this practice and postpone the whole matter. Of course that's not right. Rather the opposite. This is an active step towards forwarding the gas message in the form of concreteisations and commitments. It is also claimed that there is no need for further investigations, someone has already done the work, and I ask: Who has done this? The government of Jagland did not, nor did the government of Stoltenberg. They had the opportunity, but they didn't. This means that State authorities do not have satisfactory own investigations to date as a basis for the decisions to be taken. But the sitting government now wants to address this, so that we move forward towards the goal of using gas in Norway. It goes without saying that when the state goes into projects with x billions of dollars, yes, then you also have an obligation to make the necessary financial calculations. The criticism raised against this strategy is therefore unjustified. Grenland is one of the areas that perhaps more than anything else should welcome this Decision. Border represents Norway’s largest concentration of petrochemical industry. In addition, the district has a significant element of other industrial activities that can make use of gas in a sensible and environmental way. The need is great, not only for natural gas but also for wet gas, especially related to the activities of Borealis’ plant in Bamble. The majority of the Committee therefore stresses the importance of establishing transport solutions for both of these two types of gas. The Christian People's Party agrees. Grenland is a tried and tested industrial community. The closures and redundancies have raised questions about the future of this traditional industrial area. In order to maintain and further develop the industry in Grenland, the necessary supply of gas is an important prerequisite. The Christian People's Party therefore subscribes to the majority's clear signals that Grenland's challenges are being taken seriously. The Christian People's Party welcomes the strong focus of the Government on the development of new gas power technologies for CO2 management. The Communication proposes the establishment of a dedicated innovation company for the management of State research efforts in gas power technology with CO2 management and the localisation of this to Grenland. The majority, including the Christian People's Party, are now following this up. But here too, the communication is further clarified. This approach assumes that the company should be capitalised and given an expanded mandate including hydrogen and, where appropriate, petrochemistry. The same majority also requests that final plans be drawn up for the possible prior establishment of this company as provided for in the notification of St.meld. No 9th@item: The present setting is a concrete follow-up to the Government Gas Message. The decisions taken today take new and important steps towards more environmentally friendly gas use in Norway. The government parties, the SV and the Central Party represent a majority in important areas of the vote, and I would like to thank them for their contribution to finding the necessary majority solutions. The Christian People's Party takes note that the Workers' Party is unexpectedly not part of the majority, and that the Progress Party – as expected – chose to stand outside. We also record that the strategy chosen by the Workers' Party was wrong this time, but it is our wish that we can still be brought together in the processes and conclusions that come into the wake of the Stortinget decisions today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e662	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e665	How is it possible that the representative Brother Yngve Rahm can be satisfied with this setting, when the whole county he comes from, is concerned about the future of the industry and feels this as a political betrayal, after, among other things. The representative Rahm and Prime Minister Bondevik have contributed to creating great expectations in the area? And what comes from the fact that the representative Rahm is clinging to SV in this setting - SV, which is resisting everything called gas to Grenland? And how can the representative Rahm tell the industry and the entire population of Telemark that this was the best he could do, when he knows it's not true? For there is a proposal from the Labour Party in the vote, a proposal that would secure both gas and money for the industry in Grenland now. And how dare the representative Rahm take responsibility for leading the industry in Grenland into a new uncertain future again? It does not help the industry in Grenland to argue with old road projects that had large exceedances. Rahm says in his post that neither the Stoltenberg government nor the Jagland government have investigated the matter. No, it's Bondevik's government that has submitted this message. And I think it's alarming that when the government sends a message, it's the government parties who say that this is not good enough, so we can't accept this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e672	There was a lot of interesting rhetoric in this, but there's not much more than rhetoric. I have been prepared in my own right that Gunn Olsen would take part in this debate, based on the newspaper talk of fraud and I don't know what words you choose to use. How can Rahm take responsibility for leading industry into new uncertainty? The settlement that exists is not a postponement, it is the beginning of a process, and it is not the Workers' Party at the moment. When we talk about creating uncertainty, I would say that Gunn Olsen speaks uncertainty and pessimism into the market, at a time when we need the opposite. It's a responsibility that I can't share. I also want to send a message to the industry in Grenland that we want to take their situation seriously. We're clarifying that we want gas to Grenland and that we're going to co-finance it, but we can't do that without getting this properly figured out. I am pleased that Gunn Olsen now acknowledges that the investigations have not been carried out, either by Stoltenberg or by Jagland. But when she refers to the Bondevik government, she also overlooks the fact that this is no proposition. It's a big message. And there's a kind of document that Gunn Olsen also sees differently. With regard to the signals from Telemark, I am very interested to register a notice in the newspaper Varden, where it is said that the Telemark Gassforum is satisfied. I record that the managers of the industry go out to Varden and say that this is a good basis to continue working on. Because, as they say, investigations had to be carried out in any case. But investigations don't mean postponement. What we're doing now is we're also starting the process to the delight of Grenland.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e684	When the representative, Brother Yngve Rahm, in his reply to the previous line, says that this may be the beginning, I would say that it may also be the beginning of the end of the Norwegian industry. In the process from the Committee on Energy and the Environment started its work and until today, there have been many input and opinions. There has been a lot of good work done by industry and by different local communities to produce their projects, and there are many good ideas and projects at times in many places in the country. Border is such an area. Many people, both in industry and among the local population – and also many politicians – believe this. In Telemarksavia on 15 February, the title ‘Bondevik will pay for gas pipes’ is replaced by the title ‘Bondevik will pay for gas pipes’. Let me quote from the article: ‘Because at the press conference yesterday, Bondevik actually went beyond what is stated in the government’s own gas report, saying that the state has had to take account of the gas pipeline. There has been a process since that notification was made. Among other things, there are ominous signals coming from the industry. It has probably also affected Bondevik," says Rahm." Why will not the Christian People's Party follow the promises made by the Prime Minister? Why won't Brother Yngve Rahm stand by the promises he has made to the media in the area to which I refer? And why will the Christian People's Party overrun Norwegian industry, Norwegian industrial workplaces and local and national value creation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e700	I feel very comfortable with the agreement that is being treated today. I do that because we can stand firm in relation to the fact that we are sure that we will pass the matter on. The Progress Party has not contributed to this. That's why there's too many rhetorical points from the Progress Party, when you give the impression that they want to be involved and create values. They sit outside of any majority, and probably there's a conscious policy. I also reiterated to the representative of Vaksdal that this was more for the sake of the party marking itself. With regard to Kjell Magne Bondevik’s — the Prime Minister’s — statements after the visit to Grenland, what lies in the setting is that we are going to be part of and co-finance infrastructure, a direct and concrete follow-up to Bondevik’s opinion. It is entirely in line with what the Prime Minister said in Telemark during his visit there. But let me say something about the premises that the Progress Party is putting in for what they describe as a joyous day. The party of progress has been talking about a happy day in Stortinget before, they. They talked about it in connection with FATIMA, and they talked about it in connection with IT Fornebu. Now they're talking about it in connection with Grenland. Neither FATIMA nor IT Fornebu was sufficiently determined, but it was a joyous day for the Progress Party. And now we see how it works. A day of joy with the eyes of the Christian People's Party is that – I would say to the Party of Advancement – when we present to the Stortinget, to the industry and to the communities projects that hold water, and which are firmly anchored both economically and organisationally. I note that the Progress Party will not contribute to this. Then we can get a new IT fornebu. We don't want to be in on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e709	It'll be wild when you have to blame Stoltenberg and Jagland for failing politics in your own party. One might wonder why one didn't owe a little bit to Bratteli, Nordli and Gerhardsen too, but I'll leave that to me. SV's representatives have been up today and said what they think about gas. These are the conciliators of the representative Rahm. The same representative said in the paper that this was the best result you could achieve. The border environment has every reason to feel today's treatment of the gas message as a betrayal. When Brother Yngve wanted nothing to happen, he set down a gas committee. That's the government's message we're handling today. That the chairman of the committee can then make himself say that today it starts, I think I'm overconfident at my own government. I expected the government parties to do what the committee leader said to the fatherland friend that they should do, that they should become concrete during committee proceedings. They have chosen not to be. I can only interpret it in one way, that they believe that the government has done such a bad job in the preliminary work that there is no basis for going further. I'm sorry. We believe that there has actually been such a thorough investigation that the time has come to get started, both for the workplaces and to the greatest extent for the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e718	The President would point out that other representatives should be mentioned by full name.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e721	When the Government presents a big message, it challenges the Storting to put it into practice and to help translate the big message into practical policy. It has nothing to do with the distrust of the Government. It's on the contrary with trust to do. When the government parties in the agreement, where the Central Party and SV also set up, continue the intention of the Government's Storing Message, then there is a trust statement to the Government. Rolf Terje Klungland again points out that this has been completed. I hope we do not leave the hall today without actually knowing what state investigations you refer to. The Labour Party cannot answer that question. The Party of Presidents cannot answer that question. But the state is going to co-invest, and then we have to know. We don't want projects that go wrong. We want projects that are firmly anchored in economic calculations. So the reference to Jagland and Stoltenberg had as their starting point a confirmation that there are actually no investigations. It was not done by any of the two governments. It has not been done so far by the Bondevik Government either, because they have not had the mandates they need to go on, but we are now giving it up so that we can get it in place. And that's the background for me to say with great boldness, we're in the process. But I note that the Workers' Party is not involved, and they may not have been initially prepared to do so. There were three issues: they promised 3 billion blanks right above the table without any investigations. You should have a state company without the opportunity to assess whether that was the right way to do it. In addition, the gas power question was introduced into the Storting at the end of the treatment. It was known that this challenged the Stortinget and created uncertainty about the projects. You should know that. That is why the Labour Party's strategy was wrong. And the government parties, together with the SV and supported by the Center Party, had to take responsibility for getting this right, so it got a majority in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e730	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e733	The resources held by Norway from natural gas form a significant part of national wealth and must be managed in a long-term perspective. It is expected that Norway will be able to produce natural gas for nearly 100 years and that its output will be well above today’s level. For the Centre Party, the objective is to maximise the value of natural gas resources within an environmentally sound framework. They shall also contribute to ensuring well-being and employment. It is therefore necessary to put in place a comprehensive policy that takes account of the interests we have as a major gas exporter, while at the same time enabling us to take advantage of the benefits that natural gas spent on land in Norway could bring locally, regionally and nationally. Norway is a significant producer of gas, and per Today, we are exporting most of it to the continent and to the United Kingdom as raw materials. It is right to use more of the domestic gas and get a bigger value. National policies aimed at the domestic use of natural gas must be based on: 1st@item: inlistbox Natural gas resources shall benefit the whole country.2. The competitive advantages we derive from the use of natural gas nationally, such as proximity to resources and potential sites for CO2 landfills, shall be exploited.3. The use of natural gas in Norway shall take into account the environment both nationally and globally and shall be within our obligations regarding greenhouse gas emissions. We believe that the processing of gas on Norwegian continental shelf as far as possible should take place in Norway. It must further invest in the future and environmentally friendly gas industry on land in Norway. More gas should be used both as a raw material and as an energy source in industry. The centre batch has, as a clear condition for the use of the gas, to contribute to proper environmental development. We will not contribute to the construction of gaseous power plants. We will provide support for technology development, so that we can build gas power plants with CO2 cleaning in the long term. When the industry can replace coal, coke and oil with gas, it is important environmental progress. Access to gas can contribute to the modernisation and expansion of important industrial enterprises. We also want it to provide a basis for new businesses. The party considers that the State must contribute funds to development work in order to increase the scope of application of gas and to develop technology with CO2 management. It is also necessary to mobilise State funds for the implementation of large infrastructure projects, such as the laying of pipes and the establishment of LNG and CNG transport facilities. We believe it is right to set up an innovation company in Grenland, and that this should come into operation as soon as possible, preferably in 2004. The error made in the last budgetary settlement, when the Government and the Advance Party cut the funds for environmental research, needs to be corrected with increased appropriations for research into the environmentally friendly use of gas. In the energy sector, we want gas to replace oil more extensively for heating purposes. Transition from fuel oil to gas results in significant reductions in national greenhouse gas emissions. On the other hand, we do not want gas to replace more environmentally friendly energy carriers, such as new renewable energy. All the time, transition to less polluting energy must be worked on. It is therefore necessary to invest in increased use of gas in the transport sector as this brings clear environmental benefits. This applies in particular to maritime transport and to the operation of vehicles in urban areas. The centre party considers gas as a transitional fuel on the road to the ‘hydrogen society’. In urban areas, the reduction in emissions of NOx, CO2 and particulate matter in relation to the use of diesel means much to the local air quality. Buses in Bergen consist of the so-called handkerchief test. We also believe that funds should be earmarked over the state budget for the construction of new LNG gas ferries over a decade. It turns out that this is a very effective way to reduce Norwegian NOx emissions. The extra costs of building gas ferries should be compensated for by grants — it would not be sufficient just to provide guarantees, as proposed by a majority. The construction of gas ferries can, as an additional effect, give important assignments to the Norwegian shipbuilding industry. On previous occasions it has been mentioned that Norwegian competence in this area is high and it is important to maintain and further develop it. I have previously said that the Senterpartiet wants State involvement in the construction of infrastructure for the transport of gas. More areas in the country should have access to gas. We believe that this should be done by the state entering as a joint owner in the installations. We have also made a clear demand that the State should not contribute to subsidising the transport of gas to gaseous power plants. The centre party has chosen to join the gas settlement between the government parties and SV. We wanted the majority, as the Central Party has agreed, to be able to say even more clearly that the state should contribute to the construction of infrastructure. Suffering if we know that there is still a lot of investigation work to design the specific projects, the state should be able to say an obligating yes to entering as a joint venturer in pipelines. Nevertheless, it is irresponsible to do as the Workers' Party proposes here, simply to grant NOK 3 billion to a state investment company without setting environmental conditions. The working party has simply declared itself out of the possibility of entering into a broad settlement and has unfortunately placed itself at the heart of a corner – without any influence on this matter. The deal is the best one could achieve a majority for. The centre party believes that the area currently being pointed out for the construction of pipelines is the Grenland area, and possibly Eastfold. The gas is needed for industrial use in the area. Here we find the largest industrial cluster in the country that is involved in the industrial use of gas. A gas pipeline to Grenland can be built without the simultaneous construction of gas power stations. We hope that the plans for gas pipelines to Grenland will be ready by the spring of 2004, in line with the agreement. The construction of large gas pipelines will only be profitable when there is provision for significant quantities of natural gas within a geographically defined area. In areas of the country where there is only a reserve for minor quantities of gas, provision should be made for supplies such as LNG and CNG. It must also be possible for the State to enter into such facilities as a contributor or joint owner. We have noticed that the Government wants to add the management of natural gas grant funds to Enova. This is something that we see both advantages and disadvantages. On the one hand, it is good that an agency has an overview of the State aid resources used in the energy field. On the other hand, we are somewhat concerned that the heavy investment in the use of gas should take away attention from the work of getting more new renewable energy. Gas is a fossil energy carrier that will end in a few years. The renewable energy can be enjoyed indefinitely. A short time ago it was said that hydrogen is future – and will always be. The opinion was that there was little to bet on. It has gradually proved to be wrong. Hydrogen will be one of the major energy carriers in the transport sector and in the energy sector in the future. However, it assumes that we can produce it from renewable energy sources or from natural gas without CO2 emissions. It is therefore appropriate to establish a major national hydrogen programme promoting research and development related to hydrogen. I guess that's the majority for that, too. At the end of the message, a section on green certificates is included. It is important to understand that not only does this have to be linked to electricity, but it also needs to be considered to include heat. It is also the Swedish people who are concerned about it. I am pleased that a joint committee asks the Government to submit a proposal for a Swedish-Norwegian compulsory green certificate market since spring 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e784	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e787	My home country, Nord-Trøndelag, is in a difficult situation. Nord-Trøndelag is an agricultural group with 24-25 pst. employment is linked to agriculture. We are seriously concerned by the ongoing WTO negotiations. One third of the county is affected by the fact that the reduced employer’s fee is likely to disappear. Two major industrial giants face major challenges and a number of small and medium-sized enterprises are liquidated. There are serious concerns about the employment situation in a district such as Nord-Trøndelag, and that should also concern the Centre Party. There is one major project that is being promoted in a positive sense – there is gas in Trondheimsfjorden, there is the construction of a thermal power plant on Forests, and there are branch pipes for industrial development in important areas of the Nord-Trøndelagen, which will mean investments in the billions class. And this big project has a very big uproar at local level. Most parties would say that this is very important to get implemented. The Vice-President of the Christian People's Party is one of the front fighters, the Right is in the torch for it, and the Center Party in the North Throne Team is perhaps the most enthusiastic. Kolbjørn Almlid, former Vice President of the Centre Party, is a front figure, the current Vice President of the Centre Party, Lars Peder Breck, is a front figure – they say that now we have to put the thermal power plant in Forest, the future of Nord-Trøndelag depends on that project. Let me ask: what is it that Inger Enger has understood that the Center Party in the North Trondelag obviously has not understood anything of, of which Kolbjørn Almlid obviously has not understood anything, and by which the current Vice President of the Center Party, Lars Peder Breck, obviously cannot have understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e796	I'm not underestimating the Nord-Trøndelag Centerpartie. But there are different views in the Center Party, and we live with that very well. And I almost have to be allowed to say that I hope they do in the Workers' Party, too, because I am aware that there are also very divided opinions about gas power plants. I hope they will live well with that, and that maybe the environmental side there can eventually get more influence. The programme of the Centre Party is quite clear in this area. And the Central Party National Assembly, which was fourteen days ago, where Breck also joined the opinion, was quite clear that we want industrial use of gas, but we don't want gas for power generation without CO2 being removed. Then it's quite right, as Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said, that agriculture is very important to the whole country, and especially to the counties like the North Throne Team. There is a need for an offensive for agriculture, and I would like the Workers' Party and the Centre to be able to stand together on an offensive to ensure that this country has clean food, of good quality. Then Forest is also okay for us, if there is only CO2 handling at this gas power plant that they want to build there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e808	SV, the Government Party and the Center Party are positive for further industrial development in Grenland, we are positive for the gas supply industry. They have access to them now, but they may increase their volume if there is a new project point in itself. So both the government party, SV and the central party are positive for that. Note that some games are running hard because Grenland needs to be a gas plant. The Progress Party and the Workers' Party representatives place great emphasis on the need for an infrastructure for Grenland so that one can build a gas power station there as quickly as possible. In this way, they sign up for possible reconciliation with us, because they're pushing for a policy that's good to flag, but that's not going to get multiples here. This SV seems a bit strange. I am also a little surprised that the central party before the national meeting, and not least after the national meeting, had a debate about what the party actually means about gas power. So my question to the Center Party is related to the pipe that I perceive a wish for Grenland: Is it impossible for the Center Party to go for a gas power plant at the other end, or is it an opening for it after the national meeting?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e817	I am so pleased that the representatives from the various parties are engaged in the Central Party national meeting – we need to stay around a little. It is quite right that the Central Party national meeting fourteen days ago adopted a clear statement that it is an objective to use more gas for domestic valuation. We're losing a lot of industrial jobs for the time being, and so the Center Party, like what has been said before, doesn't mean that we can't live by just cutting our hair on each other. We also need to produce food and industrial products. In order to maintain and create industrial jobs, it is necessary to use the advantages we have in Norway, and we know that gas is one of the advantages. Both in the SV and in the Centre Party, we are concerned about this with natural gas and climate emissions. However, it should be fully possible for the State to enter as a partner of infrastructure on condition that the necessary environmental requirements are at the bottom. Langeland was particularly concerned with Grenland, which has a large industrial environment with, among other things, a lot of petrochemical industry — and there are 6,000 jobs there. Gas Forum Grenland has explained that existing industry and planned production expansions need so much gas that this defends the construction of pipelines without gas power plants at the other end. It is that part of the Central Party that supports it, both in its decision of the National Assembly and in what has been said here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e828	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e831	The left is pleased that the government party has had a holistic and forward-looking gas settlement with the Socialist Left that provides the basis for the rational and sustainable use and processing of natural gas. The left has also always believed that energy policy must be part of a holistic environmental policy. This is simply an industrial and industrial policy issue, but also an environmental policy issue. Norway is a country that is blessed by nature with large power resources in the form of hydropower. This energy has been important to develop Norway into an industrial community and has contributed to creating well-being that we all enjoy. Norwegian energy use is also at the tip of the world, and there is little doubt that we have put ourselves on an energy consumption that is well above what can be characterized as resilient. As most people have recorded, the imbalance between supply and demand in the power market has led to a certain price rise. Norway has to build gas power plants to secure domestic industrial supplies of cheap power, says the Workers' Party and the LO, while at the same time being at the top of the world when it comes to CO2 emissions. Anyone who wants to take the environmental challenges seriously understands that these are among the biggest environmental problems we have. That is why I am pleased to note that the environmental perspective has been given a good and central place in this message, and that environmental organisations today go out and praise this agreement. Left is not anti-gas for industrial purposes - opposite. On the other hand, we are disunity in the Labour Party and the Progress Party's line of building infrastructure on the state's account – without doing anything for the benefit, need and demand of this infrastructure. Gas used correctly in the areas where it's from nature's point of view, it's positive, but we probably have to have a nuanced view of this, and we have to take time to figure it out. The left is opposed to the construction of gas power plants in Norway based on impure technology. The left wants instead to contribute to the development of Norwegian gas power technology without CO2 emissions. This message also states that building gas power plants without new technology with zero CO2 emissions is completely out of date. Such a technology effort is both good environmental policy and good industrial policy. At the same time, the Left will work to cost emissions from any gas power plant, in line with other greenhouse gas emissions. It may either happen through a continuous CO2 charge or through a national allowance system without the allocation of free allowances. The left is pleased that a single Norwegian-Swedish mandatory green certificate market will be attached. This will provide a stable and sustainable framework for renewable energy. The plural setting also contains a clear message for the Government to establish support schemes for the construction of gas ferries in Norway. The size requires an expanded State investment guarantee, adequate supply conditions and mandatory concession conditions, so that fleets dare to invest in gas-fuelled ferries. This means the left is positive. In particular, I would like to emphasise that investment in gas ferries for the Halhjem-Sandvikevåg link is the project which has the greatest environmental impact and which is perhaps the closest to being realised. The plans have come very far. For decades we have built up a good environment of expertise in the use of natural gas. The left is pleased that a person is now gathering to further develop these environments of competence. We must have the goal of being at the top of the world when it comes to technology and product development. This is also about securing valuable, forward-looking jobs. Left is pleased that one in the message adds a wager on the development of energy solutions based on hydrogen. Hydrogen and fuel cell technologies can respond to many of our environmental and energy policy challenges in the future, especially in the transport sector. For the left, it's a clear goal that we should bet on the most environmentally friendly energy. Energy solution based on hydrogen is forward-looking, and of course we support the plurality when it wants to downgrade a selection that will provide a setting for a national hydrogen program. Finally, of course, we support all the proposals that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e854	Once we have received this message for processing in Stortinget, it is time to ask questions about the use of gas. Are we going to continue to send the gas in pipeline to Europe, or are we going to start using it in Norway? After all, we are entering a time when gas is the most important investment factor for us in Norway — when the oil is said to be stepped down. Natural gas has not been a priority task, either for this government or for the governments that have been before it. We have sent the gas from us. What we've experienced about this gas is that it has to be burned. The question is, where should it be burned? Is it to be burned in Norway, or is it to be burned in Europe? If it's burned in Europe, we're importing the flow. If it is burned in Norway, we can export the stream – to put it a little simple. There are several ways to use gas. We can use it for fuel in ships, we can use it in households, and we can use it in cars. We can even use gas to feed fish farming. All these ways of using gas are beneficial for Norway — and it is beneficial for the environment. How long are we going to experience that 10 pst? is the world’s fishing catch used to feed fish in the rich part of the world? For it is he who can afford to pay for it! To get 1 kilogram of pellets, it takes up to 3.5 kg of raw fish, and 1 kilogram of pellets today yields 1 kilogram of salmon – ‘roughly’ set. When we experience that natural gas, for example: can be used to feed fish, we are on the right track. Research has to be continued so that we can use the gas in other forms than just to burn it up. When the Coastal Party says a little about power plants and the power plant situation – that is what is the hottest thing in the debate – it is clear that we believe that the construction of gas power plants in Norway needs to be discussed further. We hear from this speaker that it is old technology that is used, but the only way that technology can be developed in the future is to put it into practice and continue it. Today we can pump down to the oil wells below the sea bed the exhaust gases that may be dangerous. We have ships today that exploit oil wells that have little commercial value. We have to pump seawater into the oil wells to get more oil out. Why not use the gas that we get from the gas power plants? The exhaust gas that we emit can be used. Per. Today we don't have streaming, and we don't have a power crisis, because we import electricity from Europe to a large extent. We import polluting coal power, and we also import nuclear power to cover the power supply in Norway. I've told you in the past that we need a two-price system on power. When I grew up – in 1958 we got power on the hole I grew up on – we had a two-price system on the electricity. We had over-consumption, and we had normal consumption. But it was removed, and people could use as much power as they just wanted. Why not introduce a two-price system on stream, as proposed by SV? There would be nothing wrong with introducing a two-price system – a normal consumption and an over-consumption. We have to get there that we can save on the current while meeting our needs. I think it is timely that we discuss the use of gas and how we should behave in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e871	Every day, there are messages about corporations flagging out, shutting down, permitting or revoking people. The number of bankruptcies last year was the highest in ten years. In the last year, the number of unemployed persons has increased by 25 pst, 75 of them lose their jobs every day, and the long-term unemployment rate has increased by over 40 pst. Unfortunately, this seems to be just the beginning. Studies carried out among member companies in TBL show that more than 50 pst. of which they consider moving out the whole or part of their production, and even more advertise downstaffing. Similar studies carried out in competing NHOs show the same. Today, Stortinget had the chance to do something to reverse this trend. But once again, multiples in this room choose to be a passive spectator for development. The majority seem to be aware that it is better to export our raw materials and allow others to take the value creation than to try to further process some of this resource themselves. Today, I export 99 pst. of the gas. One of the world's finest, purest and most valuable raw materials sends us out of the country, and with that we also send out the processing. With it we export jobs and large values in lost processing. By turning the gas into electricity, double a value. Using this electricity, e.g. to create metal, trebles a value of the gas. This is going to be the metal, for example. used for automobiles, the value of the raw gas becomes six-fold. This extra value will be exported today. But gas is not just an important energy source. He's also an important raw material. This raw material has almost untouchable uses. Very much of what we surround us with for the day, is produced from gas. The flakes are made of gas. The cover on our cell phones is made of gas. In fact, on the Tent Credit, they make bioproteins of gas. This is again used for fish feed, which is used to cook the gas. At the Museum of Oil in Stavanger you can see a bite of gas. In the future, one can in other words eat gas-produced food with gas-fired teeth. Norway is without comparison the largest gas producer in Western Europe. We have over 40 pst. of the gas resources in this area. We are the largest gas supplier to France, we are the largest gas supplier to Germany, and we will soon become the largest supplier to England. Nevertheless, the majority in this room have no ambitions about how we should use this natural resource here in the country. The majority have no visions for future, no plans for Norwegian gas to create jobs and values in Norway, only abroad. The first gas storage message in Norway was processed in this room over 20 years ago. She wasn't followed up by the previous Bondevik government. The Stoltenberg Government presented a concrete action plan for the use of gas in Norway in connection with the 2001 budget. He didn't take a decision about Stortinget, just asked for a new message. When this message is received by Stortinget, you do not take this position either, just asking for new layouts. Therefore I say, Kill me, Lord King, but not with more dispensations! Now it's time for action. The desire for new distributions now can only mean two things: either the message has been so small that there has been no basis for making decisions based on it, or the majority do not want to make such decisions. We have to be able to establish that both of them are true. There is little willingness in the Government or in the bulk of the population to do more than to be a passive auditor to export the gas and the value creation from Norway. This winter it has been a major focus on the energy situation in Norway. Lookups of empty magazines, high prices and threats of disconnection and rationalization have been daily. Now the danger is over. The crisis has just been cancelled. We were afraid of the gong this time too. But without abnormal rainfalls from now on to the fall, the situation is even worse next winter. And every year that goes by, we become more and more vulnerable and increasingly dependent on imports from abroad. The energy crisis we've seen in winter will be the rule rather than the exception for years to come, if we don't do anything drastic. There has been a large majority that is not going to do. I saw an interview with the energy minister in December, inviting us all to take the wish for wet and mild weather in the evening prayer. It is probably a good enough measure, but in addition we should have measures to make ourselves more independent from weather gods, and increase domestic use of gas could have been such a measure. In all other European countries, gas is perceived as a pure energy source; in Norway, importing coal and nuclear power from Poland and Russia is more environmentally friendly. Understand who it is who wills! Today, we had the chance to do something, both with the energy situation and with regard to creating new jobs. That chance left the plural.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e892	I guess that's really what it's called gas, when someone eats gas-produced food with gas biscuit.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e895	In this country, we have a long tradition of being a supplier of raw materials, and our management of the gas resources from the base thus merges into the range of examples of this, with a few honourable exceptions. It is not for nothing that these exceptions are built around the landing sites, and especially Kårstø in Rogaland. We have a long-term country, with low population density and widespread industry, and therefore it has not been profitable to make major investments in gas transport infrastructure for the domestic use of natural gas. The government has shown ambitions to increase the value creation by using the gas for domestic purposes by submitting this message to the Storting. It is in itself affordable, and there has also been a great deal of attention to the content of the notification and its treatment by the Stortinge. Examples of the domestic use of natural gas show that the benefit is both at the environmental level and at the purely business level. Examples include enterprises and major institutions that have moved from oil to gas. Natural gas is known as the least polluting fossil energy source. Therefore, it is also positive that the framework conditions for gas ferries should be assessed. Norway is a young gas nation and, as a result, there is a great need for increased competence in the use of natural gas. It is therefore positive to propose the establishment of a national centre of excellence for end-user technology in Haugaland, which is the region where domestic gas use has the longest traditions and the greatest extent. This centre shall be responsible for the information, advice, training and practical application of gas to the end-user. Preparations for the establishment of this Centre of Competence are already well under way and it is important that the Centre be assigned national tasks. The establishment of this Centre, by 1 January 2004 at the latest, has received unanimous political support and it is important that, in its future allocation of national tasks, the State will also contribute in this way to the economic foundation. The creation of a state-owned innovation company for green gas technology in Grenland is also an important contribution to both empowerment and product development within the Government's commitment to increasing the value of our domestic gas resources. Today’s debate has largely focused on the willingness to build infrastructure that allows more parts of the country to use the gas. I understand the impatience, but I don't understand the ease of dealing with numbers that some people operate with – whether it's three billion or five billion. In our eagerness to lay the basis for the creation of values based on domestic natural gas by building up an industrial infrastructure, it must be allowed to use our heads in a responsible policy. The work to be done now to produce different alternatives — profitability assessments and funding options — must necessarily be part of the process. Unfortunately, we have enough examples of the use of government crowns that have not responded to expectations regarding results. This has become a burden on the state budget and on taxpayers. That is something we must be able to avoid in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e914	I have listened with interest to the debate. Especially from the side of the government parties is, I must say, today's debate in a way so pessimistic and will create so great depression around the country that the district commission that I signed is appointed to be a member of, probably will not have any tasks at all. On the one hand, this government has set down a district commission to follow the development of the districts, to create commercial activities, to develop, to settle, to enjoy well-being in the districts. On the other hand, this government, in cooperation with the SV and the Central Party, has done its utmost to prevent this from happening. It's just that we have no growth within infrastructure, we've protected fjords and streams, we've protected large areas where there are valuable minerals – in particular, this is unfortunate for the North-Tronde Team. So in Nord-Trøndelag is Norske Skog, a corner stone company that has large plans for the future, but which is heavily dependent on signals from this room that they have access to power. That's not happening. It is likely that this company, which also intends to reinvest in new paper machinery, will, in the event of the closure of old machinery, suspend its plans and lose competitive advantage. I fear that the Right is at the forefront of this now, will lead to the closure of the Norwegian Forest in the Forest. Then we have succeeded in what is SV's and the Central Party's intentions for Nord-Trøndelag, that we in Nord-Trøndelag should stand on our knees and ask for state alms instead of trying in some way to become independent. In the case of the Center Party, and in particular, SV, it is very interesting to see the debate that is taking place between these parties here in the house in relation to the parties locally. The local batches go on torch and are in the press and in the media every day to try to convince the 80 pst. that they are in favour of the north-runners who want gas power stations in the forest. And so here SV and the Center Party fight with their beaks and their claws so that they don't happen. Then I listen to the representatives of the Central Party, who from the pulpit here today say that they understand, of course, how the Central Party and the SV of the Nord-Trøndelag think. This is not a matter of concern. I'm glad we're going towards a election this fall. I'm really happy about that. The same thing, of course, applies to the right. I had last week's conversations with several Right-leaders in the North-Tronde Team, and they were in despair. Actually, I should be very happy, because that just means more recruitment to the Advance Party in the Nord-Trøndelag. But for Nord-Trøndelag as a state and region, it's so sad that they're going to be left in this way, without anything to do at all. And then we know we're in WTO negotiations. The primary industries of Nord-Trøndelag have a strong position. It is well known that here employment will go down dramatically. Then the question is, what are we going to do in the Nord-Trøndelag? Are we really going to sit there and ask for alms in all sorts of ways, just to maintain the settlement in the Nord-Trøndelag? On the one hand, these parties stand and cling in their heads and wonder why people move from the districts, move from the North Tronde Teams, and on the other hand they use a policy that at least scares people from establishing themselves in these areas. As a representative of the Nord-Trøndelag, I have to say I'm sad. I'm sad to have to represent a state that has such great opportunities, but that doesn't in any way allow them to be used, neither in the case of breeding, in the case of extracting minerals or in the case of using gas. It is clear that this will have a long-term impact. I'm also sorry, if I get the final say, that there's not a cabinet question here today. I had hoped that this government had come into a situation where it had asked cabinet questions about the gas case, because then there is no doubt at least what signed and perhaps large parts of the Progress Party would have voted. I hope that it will provide an opportunity quite quickly, so that we can clarify the position of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e931	That's interesting when the government's most important support party wants a cabinet issue today. But I'm sure there'll be new opportunities later, so let's see if they're serious. I can also say that Nord-Trøndelag SV is not in favour of the gas power project referred to here by the representative Sandberg – just as has been said. Then I would say that SV is very pleased with the agreement we have made with the government party, and the many results that SV can show from this agreement. In particular, it is important for SV to pursue the policy that we were able to pursue at the time of the agreement on climate policy. In this way, it might have been tempting to go further in this cooperation in upcoming projects, such as the Saudi Falls. I would like to invite the Government here and now to cooperate on that project as well. A little humorous, I could have also said that the government parties and the SV could have used the 3 billion that the Labour Party and the Advance Party have for other good purposes than what the parties do. This is why there are many challenges for the Government and the SV in the future. SV is very pleased that a co-consultant committee joins SV and the settlement proposal for a hydrogen selection. Hydrogen will be one of the most important energy sources in the future. It shows, among other things: In Japan and the United States, there is also the growing investment in the EU. This is an area where Norway needs to get on the track to a greater extent, and where SV is now helping to get ahead. The selection has a reasonably short time horizon. I think that's important, because it's important for Norway to start developing hydrogen technology. It is interesting to read in the evening post today about a project that Bellona and the Reiarlage Eidesvik have about the development of a fuel cell technology in connection with the two new supply boats that Eidesvik will build and that are based initially on gas operation. This shows another direction of the energy policy in Norway, which SV is busy contributing to by means of this agreement. There have been some criticisms about SV that we don't promise anything at all. But what we actually promise in the setting is that the access that Grenland has to gas today should, of course, continue to have. It can also be bigger if there are projects that provide a basis for it, if you stay within the conditions you have in the climate message. That SV is presented as negative in this context is misleading. What is disturbing is when the Workers' Party and the Advance Party so strongly focus on the fact that infrastructure in Grenland is primarily about gas power plants – and not any gas power plant at all, but a highly impure gas power plant is what they want to build. Then one must say, at least to the Labour Party, that this does not depend on the climate policy they stand for. Of course, the party of progress can do so, for they sail in their own seas and have no responsibility in relation to international agreements. But the Labour Party has to think about this when they profile it so strongly – even at its party leader. There is no invitation to cooperate with SV when one goes so hard. So a couple of short greetings at the end: Gas ferries have been raised to a different level by the committee. Building gas ferries is now easier. This has been working with SV and other parties for years, and now I hope that we will realize a gas ferry project over Boknafjord. In their comments, SV has a strong criticism of the Lyse project on North-Jären, because it leads to a poorer climate policy. We're sorry we're all alone. Finally, I would like to say that the proposal put forward by the representative Sylvia Brustad when it comes to Haugesund and Haugaland and end-user technology is entirely in line with that put forward by a group committee, so it is also supported by SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e952	The gas message is based on three main pillars. It is industrial exploitation, environmentally friendly energy production and innovation. The government will make more use of natural gas for domestic valuation. This is the main thought in St.meld. No 9, For domestic use of natural gas, etc. Natural gas is the most environmentally friendly of fossil energy carriers, and the use of natural gas is an important part of the strategy for safer energy supply. In a long-term strategy for improved security of supply, it is important both for the direct use of gas for energy purposes and for gas power stations where CO2 is managed in a sound manner. The chapters of the Communication on a mandatory green certificate market show that renewable energy sources also have a central place in the Government’s work for more environmentally friendly energy supply. The Energy and Environment Committee has now come to its conclusion on the gas spill notification, and the Government is essentially in agreement with its recommendations. Of course, I am very satisfied with that. It provides a good basis for further follow-up with concrete actions. In order to achieve the objective of increasing the domestic use of natural gas, the Government will contribute to the development of natural gas infrastructure. The aim is to provide projects that can provide experience with domestic gas use. The government will contribute to co-financing — as stated in the Communication — where the conditions allow, so that gas can be made available over time in several key areas of the country and in some major users. Grenland and Mid-Norway are regions where there will be a particular relevance with pipework. The Government considers it important to facilitate information, advice, training and the practical application of gas to end-users. The Government therefore supports the establishment of a separate national centre of excellence for such activities related to the established environment of competence in the Haugaland. The activities of the Centre of Competence should be directed at both private households, public institutions, industry and the rest of the world. The Centre should initially be self-financed but with a State contribution related to the expenditure and tasks for which the Centre is given a specific national responsibility. The commitment to gas power stations with CO2 management is both a key element of the Government’s energy policy and of the strategy for domestic use of natural gas. The Government draws up a strategy to accelerate environmentally friendly natural gas-based power generation. Through the strategy of the Gas Communication, the Government aims to establish framework conditions allowing the realisation of gas power plants with CO2 management. I believe this is a historic commitment to a technology that is of great importance in meeting the climate challenges. The Government bases its strategy in the Gas Communication on the following elements: State aid for technology and product development investment aid for gas power plants with CO2 management establishment of a state innovation company in Grenland from 2005 onwards for State participation in the development and operation of CO2 infrastructure Hydrogen can become one of the most important energy carriers in the future. Hydrogen can be produced from both renewable energy sources and fossil fuels, and it can be used as fuel in the transport sector, for large-scale power and heat production and for local energy production, so-called distributed energy supply. The Government has undertaken to facilitate a major national hydrogen programme to contribute to the building of competences for the further development of hydrogen technologies in Norway. In this respect, we have asked the Research Council to assess how it is best to follow up on hydrogen in Norway and how to design a possible national hydrogen programme. The Research Council supports in its feedback to the Ministry under the initiative of the Government. It is proposed to designate a body mandated to define such a programme in greater detail. The Committee should have representatives from universities, research institutes, industry, users and relevant authorities. The recommendation of the Research Council has been drawn up in accordance with Enova and the Norwegian Hydrogen Forum. A mandatory green certificate market is an instrument to stimulate the increased use of selected types of renewable energy. Green energy producers are awarded certificates for a quantity of green energy they supply in the market. Adequate demand for certificates is created by requiring consumers to purchase certificates corresponding to a certain proportion of their electricity consumption. The Communication highlights the main benefits of a mandatory green certification market that is realised when a broader international trade in green certificates is established. Several European countries are working towards the establishment of renewable electricity certificate markets. This work is to some extent linked to the EU Directive on the promotion of renewable electricity in the internal electricity market. The Government will work to speed up the establishment of an internationally mandatory certification market and seek to influence its framework. The focus of this work will be on the environment, security of supply and the rational management of Norwegian natural resources. I would like to pay tribute and recognition to the Committee on the position that now exists. It is responsible, and it is forward-looking. I note, despite some debate here today, that there is still a broad consensus in the Storting that it is necessary to support the development of gas infrastructure. At the same time, I record requests for further investigations into how LNG, CNG and gas pipes can be fed to current users. With the large amounts of aid that will be available, it is absolutely necessary to develop clear strategies for the technical and economic solution of the projects. But with the decision of the Stortingen, there is now a good basis for further work on this. Today we have a support system that I want to continue as planned. However, I look forward to the results of a more detailed investigation, including regarding the form of funding and the possibilities for a state investment company. The Committee has also agreed to assess whether the national responsibility for security and emergency facilities should lie with the planned Haugaland centre of competence. I believe it is natural to evaluate this in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Administration. I want to add up to a work that takes into account that the good process already in progress should not be delayed. It is positive that there is broad support for one of the pillars of the Government's energy policy: the fastest possible realisation of gas power with CO2 management. It also appears to agree that the investment to which it is now placed is to be managed by a separate innovation company, in order to ensure the best possible progress and implementation of technology developments. I also notice that there are several people who wish to establish such a company earlier than the government has planned. I share the wish for the fastest possible progress in this matter. However, I would like to point out that there is a great deal of work ahead of establishing the company. The Ministry shall make it possible to establish the ultimate and most appropriate target structure, organisation and financing of the company by 1 January 2005. Borders against other research and development activities also need to be clarified. It may require changes to current arrangements. In addition, the organisation and support schemes of the company need to be clarified in relation to relevant EEA legislation. I also record that the majority share the Government's view that more efficient and environmentally friendly supply of energy to the petroleum industry on the continental shelf is important. The government will continue to work on these questions in line with what was outlined in the message. Furthermore, it is gratifying that the Storting ends up broadly on the Government's wish for an increased investment in hydrogen as an energy carrier in Norway. I note that there is a need to be a majority in favour of a decision to set up a wide-ranging selection with a relatively comprehensive mandate. I am also pleased that the Committee has joined the Government's proposal to invest in a mandatory international market for green certificates. I will work widely to speed up the development of such a market. It will be a particularly priority task to facilitate the rapid implementation of the renewable directive. I will follow the decisions that the Stortinget will take in this context and clarify as soon as possible the conditions for establishing a green certification market in close cooperation with Sweden, in line with the wishes of the majority. For my part, I have great expectations of the international process ahead. I believe in international cooperation in this area, which is also illustrated in the Johannesburg process, where Norway has been a driving force. The government has largely joined in the strategies drawn up by the message. The treatment of the gross domestic product provides a good basis for further work on concrete measures to increase the domestic use of gas. I am also pleased that there is agreement on an offensive international commitment to mandatory green certificate market as a basis for a lifting of renewable energy work. There are many interesting and challenging industrial policy visions in the goals and decisions to which the Storting belongs today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1015	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1018	Gas use in Norway has been under discussion for many years. The message we received for treatment also provided a good basis for dealing with this case, because there were many visions there. But the message was far too little concrete, for example. as regards the key to creating new jobs based on natural gas, namely infrastructure. There the government had a clear proposal, and it was going on with Enova. In this context, everyone in this room knows that we've spent between 20 and 40 million. kr in the year – SV would have it in zero for the current year. We all know that there has been no particular use of natural gas in Norway that has created jobs, nor will it be in the future if you do so. Competition will always be lost in relation to, for example, kindergartens and nursing homes. This, and also being able to give clear signals, was the background that we have proposed a different model. At a time when unemployment is rising every day, we know that we now need to build jobs and that clear signals are needed. However, the government has decided to join SV. And I think we have got liberating clear signals from SV here today. The main spokeswoman of the party, Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, has said something like that there is no goal in itself to use natural gas in Norway, and that it is naive to believe that investing in this will create new jobs. My question to the Steensnæs State Council is: Does he share this assessment? There is this party that this Government and the government parties have now chosen to bet on. I hear the council say that the government will have a large investment in gas power plants with CO2 management. We're for that, too. But why in the world did the government then make a deal with the Advance Party before Christmas, where the research on this type of gas power plant was halved? And why is it that the government parties today say no to support the Workers' Party's proposal that we should spend 250 million. DKK over 10 years, including for research and development of gas power plants with CO2 management? And why is it that the government parties later today will also say no to support such gas power plants similar to the reimbursement of the whole electricity charge? Is it to supply such a development, or are there also many fine words, but little action?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1029	Let me first say that I am pleased that Sylvia Brustad repeats some of the positive assessments she made when the gas message was submitted, as a good starting point for an active and offensive strategy for more use of gas in Norway. But then I think she, as the rapporteur-in-Office, who has a primary responsibility to sew together a broad settlement where it is possible to achieve this, has today been more concerned with pointing out differences and different views than creating a common platform for a further bet. The parties of Storting will take responsibility for that. I spent considerable time in my post just to point out that it was both in the setting and in the inserts, through important parts, despite everything there was a red thread that made it possible to move on. I see, for my part, much more positive and optimistic about the possibilities we have in the future for increased use of gas. This is the case in Grenland, in Haugaland, in Hordaland, in Central Norway, in Northern Norway — yes, it is in large parts of this country. And in a week's time, Sylvia Brustad and I will meet in Hedmark at a gas conference. I'm glad. I don't think we should look back, but forward. And let me say: I want to clearly warn you against minimizing the financial burden it will in any case be putting off large amounts of money for projects that have not been completed. It was the Labour Party's own government, where Sylvia Brustad had a role, which implemented the rule of action. We know that for every single penny of the Petroleum Fund set aside for other purposes, it will reduce the funds that can be used for other projects, so it's a simplification when it's said that this can easily be set off without any significance. It has a consequence, a proper economic review of the projects is necessary for their proper implementation. History has shown us with all manner of clarity what happens when such a review is not carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1036	The Norwegian people have experienced the government's lack of energy policy this winter, which is also shown here today both in the announcement and in the behaviour of the government parties, or rather a lack of action. Now, unfortunately, we see that the use of gas as an energy source stops thanks to the government having made a compromise with the Socialist Left Party – despite the fact that the Council of State just said the opposite from this pulpit. The use of our huge gas resources for power generation would have saved us from the power crisis we've had this winter. The council said that the government is dependent on gas power, but only gas power with CO2 handling, as it is called fine. At the same time, all the expertise we have says that it will take at least 10 to 15 years before there is such a technology that is commercially sound. So I want to ask the Council of State: why don't you be honest and say straight away that you don't want gas power plants, instead of putting this into phrases about a technology that doesn't exist at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1045	It's not right that this technology doesn't exist. It actually exists today, and we have gas power plants with CO2 handling today. What I am less sure of, however, is whether this is the most cost-effective solution. Here researchers recommend us to carry out a pilot project, a demonstration facility, before building the expensive full-scale facilities. There is a recommendation that the Government follows. It was the Gas Technology Committee that made such a recommendation. They see that it takes a long period of exploration before you can actually end up on which project is the most sensible. The government takes note of it, at the same time reporting some impatience and wants to help accelerate such a technology. This means that the Government has said that from 2006 it is prepared to co-finance a gas power plant with CO2 management to bridge the cost difference between a conventional gas power plant and one with CO2 management. It's not that we've shot this out in an unknown future. There are three concessions, I'll remind you of it again, but none of the concessions have been used, for economic reasons. But from the moment we're in a situation where a conventional gas power plant can be built – and we're not today – this government is willing to contribute the necessary funds to make the option an environmentally friendly gas power plant with CO2 management. It is a significant economic challenge. It requires an effort financially, but that commitment has been taken on by the Government. So in order to make that time as far forward as possible, the government has chosen to invest considerable resources in research and development, and we have a good cooperation with research on this. With the decision of the Storting today, we have made further concrete efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1052	The representative Brustad claimed that I said it was naive to believe that investing in natural gas would give a lot of jobs. She should have added overnight, because it is a reality that renewable energy will provide more jobs per year. TWh than gas power. Part of the debate here today is about the costs of building a gas pipeline to Grenland, but there is still no one who has been able to put on the table a thorough state investigation that concludes on what such an investment in a pipeline to Grenland we cost. I would also like to point out that it is essential that Grenland obtains further access to gas within an environmentally sound framework, not that it must necessarily be transported in pipes, especially in view of the fact that it has been claimed that the gas can be transported at half price using the Knutsen shipping company's boat solution. But let there be no doubt that SV is engaged in ensuring the industry in Grenland continues to supply gas. What we're asking for is that we get facts on the table before we conclude in relation to the choice of infrastructure solution and funding. My question is therefore: does the Council have any opinion on the different costs of the different gas transport solutions to Grenland? Is the council attached to any number material in which Stortinget has not been involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1063	First, I want to agree with Vaggen Malvik in terms of renewable energy sources. Firstly, it is interesting because we need a different energy composition — a different energy portfolio — than the one-sided dependence we have on hydropower today, and then renewable energy sources, especially waterborne heat, bioenergy and wind power, are interesting. The second aspect is that we will also be able to provide more energy while complying with our important international environmental and climate obligations. And the third point, as Vaggen Malvik also pointed out, is to create new jobs, yes, actually a new technology and a new industrial investment, which could mean a larger market, because the Kyoto agreement will obviously open up new interesting technology initiatives that Norway can participate in. Then I have also noticed claims that have come from the Workers' Party, that investigations we have more than enough of to bet billions of dollars on infrastructure. I ate my ears when I heard this. I have looked in the ministry archives to find those investigations, because I assumed that the Workers' Party, with its government experience background, had abandoned such investigations, so that I could let go of the important, but of course time-consuming and challenging task it was to put on the table for the Stortinget investigations that were to guarantee the quality of such considerable efforts. I couldn't find one. I would like to be allowed to repeat the challenge that several speakers have raised: what investigations are being conducted? What is it that has such a quality that I should invite Stortinget to invest billions of dollars in projects that are quite demanding both economically and technically? We have enough examples of projects that have been launched from this pulpit, which in retrospect proved not to be satisfactory quality assurance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1072	There has been a lot of investigation talk today. It's well and good and absolutely necessary in this context. The majority will today ask the Government to explore alternative solutions for bringing gas to domestic users and to look at the economic aspects of such infrastructure development and the way in which the country is to participate in the development. Stone sneezing said there was a red thread in the setting. I can't quite agree, I think it's environmental and green the thread you might want to see. Some of what the government is asked to investigate, we already know a lot about. We know that there has to be government participation to get heavy investment, such as. construction of pipes for domestic use. Telemark Gassforum in Grenland has also stated that there is going to be a high demand for industrial gas in their area, and that this will defend investment in pipelines to Grenland, without there being a gas power plant at the other end. I want to be a little concrete, and I would like to ask the Council of State how quickly he sees that this investigation can be clear. I also expect that the question of a certain state participation in such pipeline projects as it is talking to Grenland needs to be clarified. To what extent and to what extent does the Council of State consider it relevant for the State to participate? As I said, a little concrete, but as a predictive state council I guess he has some thoughts about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1085	The thread that goes through the setting, I deliberately colored red in a terrible hope that we could also include the Workers' Party in it. I mean it honestly, because there's a lot of rhetoric here – I guess I have to say it. Besides that, there is also a somewhat different approach to how we implement this, but not in the desire to use the gas – there is a broad consensus in the Storting, which does not include everyone at all, but which is nevertheless very important. So Inger S. Enger in his reply has an invitation to me to suggest something about what amount size I think is reasonable to get into this. There are many different components that need to be considered in this context. Of course, industry must also participate, and I imagine that these are different kinds of premises that have to be recorded. But I focus on clarifying these premises in such a way that the Storting can stand up to completely clear choices in this. In terms of time and progress, Stortinget itself has given clear notice to the Government about the progress, and I will deal with that. However, I do not want to conceal that with the decisions taken here today, the ministry has had a significant challenge in dealing with parallel processes at the same time, and each process itself is very time consuming and of great scale. I will, however, with respect for the Storting, do what I can to provide a feedback that provides a good basis for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1094	The introduction of gas domestically is a matter of infrastructure. Most people who have spoken about this think that the state must take part in that infrastructure, yes, even the Prime Minister has said so at the Telemark meeting. Then it's that the Labour Party says yes, it has to. We want to create a company where the state is going to participate, and then we've suggested a certain number of billions of dollars to do this in a big deal. Then we talk about equity in this company. And the state council knows just as well as everyone else that it's under the line-money we're talking about, so to bring the rule of action into this, I think I'm going too far. Governments must read the Workers' Party's Notes in the Settings to describe how this is done. There we say, of course, that when the concrete decision on a company is to be made, when the council returns to it, all the sums and figures are to be in place. But that job doesn't need to be done in two steps, as it is done here, because if the government party would say yes to state companies, yes to infrastructure, only the work that the government council is about to do could be done. I have two specific questions for the Council of State. There is no goal of using more gas domestically, says SV, and that's what the government party is based on. Is the Council of State in agreement? The second question: Statoil is about to figure out the possibility of building an energy plant in Mongstad. They will submit an application in July of this year. I am not asking the Council of State to handle this application here, but I am asking the Council of State to confirm that any application should be dealt with in accordance with the laws and regulations adopted by Stortinget, and not after the Sem-Declaration. I want an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1105	The State must participate in the co-financing of infrastructure, says Ranveig Frøiland. It's also repeated by others here, and it's presented in such a way that it seems as if there's a new position that the Storting is taking. I would like to stress and remind you that it is actually in the gas message. It's always been the government's position. And what the Prime Minister said in Grenland, and what the other government has said elsewhere, just confirms that it has been the Government's intention and strategy all the way. So, as far as this is concerned, the government has proposed adding this to Enova, and Stortinget believes that this should be incorporated into a separate infrastructure company. I take note of that. But until this company is established, I assume that Enova can manage that money. Once the issue of the infrastructure company has been addressed by Stortinget and it is established, the company will take over. So I'd just like to say this with the line money – and that should be unnecessary: the 3 billion that goes to the infrastructure company plus the equity that the innovation company is going to have, which is going to give a return of 250 million. Let's say it's going to be $4 billion. Then you have $7 billion, and you multiply it by 4 pst. – for a shaker of the Petroleum Fund and thus cannot use this under the rule of action – gets a quick 280 or 300 million. kr which cannot be used in nursing homes, in other words, which cannot be used on education and training, which cannot be used on infrastructure in other areas. In other words, we must be realistic about what this also means economically, since it has now been said so simple and so unproblematic that this is money that does not affect other areas. It does. Then to the compromise with SV. They have reached a compromise, and they have also had to extend. The goal of the Government is firm and confirmed by the Storting today. More domestic gas is used. And finally, in the case of Mongstad, I can fully agree with Ranveig Frøiland, although I would like to wish that the Sem Declaration was the basis for the Storting decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1119	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1122	St.meld. No 9 consists of two parts. Part I is about domestic use of gas, Part II is about green certificates, and I want to start with the last one. Simply put, green certificates are about eco-friendly or green energy being equipped with a label or certificate, which in turn triggers a higher price. In a mandatory system, all energy buyers are required to buy a certain proportion of green energy, it could be 5 pst., 10 pst., or it could be 16.7 pst., for that matter. The proportion must be determined politically. And what to recognize as green energy must also be something we have to decide through political decisions, whether it becomes a national system or it becomes an international system. In practice, it will be difficult for Ola and Kari to determine and organise this sea. In practice, the job of ensuring that a certain proportion is green energy will naturally be left to the company with which you buy energy. For example, you buy. its energy at Troms Kraft, and the share of certificates has been adopted to 10 p.m., the Troms Kraft Market must ensure that they have in their register green certificates equivalent to 10 p.m. of what they sell out. Through this system, we will have a long-term and far greater commitment to environmentally friendly energy than we can hope for with a support scheme for the state budget. And – and this is a very important and – it is not certain that the price of households will be higher overall. The reason for this is that with today's liberalised power market, the price of the most expensive current determines the power price. Now, the most expensive energy, well, notice if it's environmentally friendly, operates in a class by itself, and won't be involved in setting the price of the energy that is already produced at a much lower price. The point is: Green certificates are a market mechanism, but there is also a way to control the market in order to achieve a common goal: to produce more renewable energy. We have a great potential for new renewable energy in Norway. On behalf of Enviro Energie ASA, Econ has produced a report that looks at the societal impact of increased investment in wind and hydropower. The report estimates that a total of 15 TWh up to 2012 can realistically extend wind power and hydropower upgrade and small-scale hydropower deployment. Such expansion will make a significant contribution to the power balance and will trigger investments in the order of DKK 35 billion and 4000 annual works in the construction phase. By introducing green certificates, we can facilitate such a development, if we want to. The Labour Party believes that offensive policies in relation to the introduction of green certificates are good energy policies, they are good environmental policies, and they are good rural policies. The main aim of the working party would be for the Stortinget to adopt on 1 January 2005 as the introduction date for a mandatory green certificate market. That should be possible; in Sweden it should be introduced before summer. When we did not get a majority in favour of it, we are nevertheless pleased that, through the work of this message, we have got the Government to go a little further than it does in the message, and that the Storting will today decide that the Government must present a concrete case as soon as possible, and no later than spring 2004. We are also pleased that the Government will assess whether heat should be included in this context. We are strong supporters of the development of bioenergy, and we believe it is necessary to put in place systems to ensure the development of bioenergy. Here, too, this is a great potential. Let me say so briefly about some points related to Part I of the domestic use of gas: Several people today have talked about hydrogen society, and it's actually that hydrogen technology is already here. On 6 March, for example, look at the news that Norway sent off the farm the first commercial hydrogen station to Iceland. The Committee supports, in the form of a comment, the establishment of a major national hydrogen programme, but I find it disappointing that it is only the Workers' Party that will actually vote for it. The same applies to electrification. The majority say a lot positive, and that is good, but when it comes to developing an action plan for electrification as an important contribution to achieving our climate obligations, only the Workers' Party and SV support it in the setting. Gas power plants have also become a topic in dealing with this matter. I am opposed to the construction of conventional gas power plants because they want to pollute by discharging large amounts of CO2. I think we have to impose CO2 management on the builders, and in voting we will vote against proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1154	The enormous resource represented by gas reserves in the North Sea represents a major potential for the creation of value for Norway over the next 100 years. It is therefore gratifying that we have a government that takes this seriously and through this communication points to the opportunities offered by domestic use of natural gas. This is important both in terms of meeting our international environmental obligations and in terms of national value creation. Natural gas produces significant emission reductions in terms of NOx, especially in the transport sector. In addition, reductions in CO2 emissions are achieved when oil is replaced by natural gas. In the transport sector, it is therefore gratifying that the gas bus rate should continue in the cities where this has started well. For example: The mountain will mean 80 buses on gas, which represents a great improvement in the air quality of the city. I'd like to pay tribute to the city and county council for making this environmental promise, together with the state, a joy for the city's inhabitants. The right in its time launched the concept of the gas road. There were gas ferries on the coastal log road that were the starting point. Now it's time to realize the vision. This communication and the express will of the majority mark a breakthrough for gas passenger investment. 10 pst. of the total NOx emissions from the whole ferry sector occur on the Halhjem-Sandvikvåg link south of Bergen, which is also the largest in the country. The size is currently taking decisions to ensure the financing and rational acquisition of three gas ferries in this context. Also on Boknafjorden north of Stavanger there is great ferry traffic. The Committee has noted that there are plans and needs for two gas ferries here as well, and supports this. Overall, this will contribute to a significant reduction in emissions, which will mean modern ferry connections until they can be replaced by a ferries-free route. Both of these ferry services, which otherwise connect a region with nearly 1 million people and an export-oriented business, are favourable in terms of the filling stations of the vessels. The majority also agree that the country must contribute to getting a distribution network to the filling stations in place. Both Kårstø and Kolsnes are in this context favourable. The majority come up with these companies that have plans for gas ferries, in concrete terms. But the extra cost of a gas engine is significant. Therefore, gas engines are hardly relevant other than in the context of the new construction. Short sea shipping accounts for most of the NOx emissions in the country, and if we are to meet our obligations under the Gothenburg Protocol, it is therefore important that we include measures in the existing fleet. This can be done much cheaper than in new buildings, but also with large emission reductions through conversion, installation of catalysts and other measures. Today, the size of the population takes a unanimous decision to continue research in this field and to implement measures, as the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs has drawn up for the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Overall, this gas emission in the ferry sector and the programme of measures for existing vessels will lead us far towards the objective of a total reduction of 62 000 tonnes of NOx, as the Gothenburg Protocol commits us to. This is very joyful, so here there's no reason to nibble for any of the people involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1173	The representative Halleraker mentioned in his post that the Right had initiated the so-called gas road. It is obvious that the party on the right has driven in the ditch when they were going on that road. One of the themes of today’s debate has been the use of gas for power generation. This is what the Progress Party wants and possibly in the theory of the Workers' Party. The working party will build gas power plants, but only in party speeches. When the Workers' Party maintains its climate policy, it effectively halts the construction of gas power plants. Nor is the reduction or removal of Norwegian industry and industrial workplaces, since emissions should be within the framework of which Norway is obliged to maintain. Calculations made suggest that the process industry can reduce climate emissions equivalent to 1.24 million tonnes of CO2 for a price less than DKK 400 per tonne. tonnes of CO2 corresponding to the costs of current CO2 management technology. Stoltenberg and the requirements of the Workers' Party will lead to emission measures with costs well over 400 DKK per year. tonnes of CO2. Then Stoltenberg might as well require CO2 management. The Progress Party considers that new activity needs to receive new allowances. When the Government assumes that Norwegian emission reductions are not to be carried out by the Norwegian industry moving abroad, the opposite must be the case: if the relocation of industry results in the withdrawal of allowances, the relocation of new industry must result in the issue of new allowances. Construction of new gas power stations in Norway rather than abroad should not be penalised. We see here the consequences of a dogmatic environmental policy. The Labour Party wants to make political coins on climate policy. The disadvantage for the Workers' Party is that it goes across the Labour Party's energy policy, and then the question is, what does the Workers' Party really choose? Here, the Workers' Party has a significant explanation problem, and it is a problem that the Workers' Party cannot put under the chair, and since the representative Brustad could not explain this in his reply to my reply to her, I hope at least that someone else in the Workers' Party can explain the party's policy. Norwegian gas-based industry and Norwegian gas power stations shall under no circumstances be subject to more stringent framework conditions than those in the EEA territory. In my opinion, if, against assumption, Norwegian authorities introduce strange symbolic policy instruments, it must be obvious that the authorities also cover the extra costs involved. I point out that the energy situation in recent years has shown that there is a great need for increased power generation in Norway, and that it needs to be made possible for gas power plants to be built, so that in the future we can avoid a situation similar to that in the power market that has been this winter. Future concessions also need to focus more on the potential we have to exploit waste heat from power plants in an industrial context. But the most important thing for the future will be for the Workers' Party to make its policy of building gas power plants visible, given the climate policy that the party has taken to heart in the past. Once again, I would like to encourage the Workers' Party to provide an explanation of how this relates.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1190	Let me start by encouraging the representative of Korsberg to read the comments of the Workers' Party in the settings. He is probably able to do that, and then he will get a very good clarification in relation to what the Workers' Party stands for. If not, I won't use this precious time to try to explain it to him here, but I'll try in the process out in the hallway in retrospect. I want to start by saying that there is reason to be very happy about the billion investment that despite the government's policy has benefited Hydro Polymers in Grenland. It shows that there are still some social democratic structures left in society. But let me be quick to say that today it is also the only industrial joy that we have. In winter, electricity prices have been record high. In the time that the Bondevik II government has had power, we have got 75 new unemployed every day, and unemployment is increasing in industry. On top of that, the Government, together with the Progress Party, has reduced unemployment, weakened the employment environment law and cut off the regional instruments for the creation of new jobs. The attitude we are now discussing is a sad chapter in Norwegian energy and industrial history. The settlement partners, consisting of the government parties and the SV, will today decide that nothing new is going to happen in public so that we can use more of our gas resources in Norway. The Labour Party believes that the time has come to pursue an offensive industrial and energy policy. The unemployment figures and the electricity prices experienced by the Norwegian people in winter speak for themselves. It seems that government parties will not or will not be able to take the situation inwards, despite the signals that are in society. The government conducts a la scorre policy, where they are more concerned with celebrations than with results. The best result I could achieve, said the committee's leader from Grenland and the Christian People's Party to the newspapers when the conciliation was concluded. He said that despite the fact that he had been standing in the square in Porsground a few weeks in advance and promised gas to Grenland. I wonder whether the industry, the trade movement, and not least the torch that the Committee met in Porsground, are satisfied with the postponement that we are currently in? The government parties had the opportunity to cooperate with the Workers' Party in order to achieve a more offensive policy to put gas into use, to create new industries and to create development. They had the opportunity to be forward-looking. We stretched out our hands to ensure industry and the environment a development and a future in Norway. Instead, the governing parties chose SV – a lot which has only one purpose in the agreement they have concluded and which has emerged here today, namely to prevent the use of the gas in Norway. During the spring, the Minister for Oil and Energy will present proposals for gas pipelines to England. The next thing he's going to do is he's going to propose adding cables to England -- cables that cost up to $10 billion, and that the power customers have to pay. So the energy nation of Norway will first produce the gas, then lead it to England, then import electricity back to Norway. That this is a good industrial and energy policy, they get who can. The conciliators have chosen to lose weight, and that's what happens at a time when we find that industrial workplaces are lost every day and many businesses are struggling. Developing industries that can further process the gas is about value creation, industrial development and jobs. Finally, it is, in fact, also about the development of the welfare society. It is through industrial development that our predecessors have created the society we live in today. Now it was our turn. I understand that especially the Right People, such as. those in West Agder, responding to the result that is now available. The right hand side was the party that claimed that they were going to speed up the value creation. Now is the time for internal settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1213	The treatment of the gas notification shows that the Government has been given a majority in favour of a policy to exploit more of natural gas for domestic value creation. It is an important industrial investment and can bring increased value creation to mainland Norway and help secure jobs around the districts. Industry has shown great interest in putting natural gas into use for domestic production. I would like to point to the environment in Trøndelag. There's a lot of interest in using the gas here, and there's a lot of exciting projects. Industrial power Mid-Norway is working on plans for a gas-driven CHP plant at Skogn. Their plans include a gas pipeline from the Tent Goods of Forest. The project was planned to start in 2005, but in the summer of 2002 it was postponed due to the economy of the project. In Trondheim, a strong gas competence environment has emerged in relation to the technology environment. Successful gas use in Norway requires cooperation between the different actors. I therefore agree with the Government's view that Enova should seek to establish a constructive cooperation with these environments. Such cooperation will mean the exchange of ideas and experiences and could contribute to the empowerment of all parties. Environments in which private actors have taken the initiative to establish operational innovation environments will be an important resource to leverage in order to boost gas deployment. In Trondheim there are competent technology environments with long experience and broad contact with the business community. I am therefore pleased that the government parties and SV have made a settlement that involves an offensive effort to facilitate increased use of gas. The agreement is also well received in Trøndelag. In its management article, the address book writes last Saturday: ‘What has now happened is the Sem Declaration translated into practical policy and the settlement is a necessary corrigendum to Frp and Ap which has proposed to spend billions of money on gas pipelines without even explaining the consequences of such a formidable investment.’ The paper goes on to write: ‘Rightly, the decision confirms that the propulsion of a gas power plant in the forest is quite different from what the most aggressive builders want. Of course, many people might have wanted a different development in this matter than what has become the project. But there may be reason to remember that, after all, there is an economy on the basis of which plans are still planned. It can neither Ap nor Frp decide anything about it. Therefore, when it is now indicated from the opposition that there is still talk of ‘trenching’, it is tantamount to political dishonesty. The agreement is based on a rather different section of the track than on the construction of gas power stations in the forest. This is a general and required quality assurance.» It is quite right that the newspaper says: there is a lack of economy and not a lack of public will that is why the CHP plant in Forest has not yet been built. As soon as it becomes economics in this project, I'm sure the expansion will start. That's why I'm worried when the Workers' Party is now threatening to move concessions from Industrikraft Mid-Norway if it's not being built in the near future. When I hear the Workers' Party today, I fear on behalf of Trøndelag that the Workers' Party will move concessions from Industriekraft Mid-Norway to build a gas power plant in Grenland, to get the economy in any gas pipe there. In that case, it will be very serious for Trøndelag. There is tradition in this country that the Right Party and the Labour Party in major industrial policy issues are using themselves in broad conciliation, as we do, for example. did so in connection with the partial privatisation of Statoil. It is therefore new and sad that the Workers' Party is outside this process in order to prioritise its own party political markers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1239	I found the ‘Earth State 2003’ from the Worldwatch Institute in my mailbox yesterday. There I saw that the director, Øystein Dahle, wrote in the introduction to the Norwegian version that what we are constantly seeing is that when business interests collide with environmental considerations, environmental concerns have to wane. I am very happy to be able to say to Øystein Dahle and to the Worldwatch Institute that in this setting is not the case. In this setting, the majority is trying to create a green business development, a development of industry that is robust and sustainable, also in relation to the environmental requirements we will meet in the future, a development of industry that also aims to develop the environmental technologies of the future. It contrasts with those who want a wide-ranging traditional use of gas in Norway. Such a traditional use of gas will only increase climate emissions and thus make it even more difficult to meet the major climate challenges we face. In this debate SV has been accused of being the only party that is not for gas use in Norway. I think it's because you don't listen very well. But let me make it clear: it is true that we think it is a bad goal to use as much gas as possible in Norway. We think the right goal must be to have the highest possible value creation and the highest possible environmental benefit per. cubic meters of gas we're using. Having a volume measure is pointless. There's no political struggle in Norway for us to use as much oil as possible, is there? Nor is there any political struggle in Norway to maximise the use of electricity. That's the value creation we can get out of the raw material, and the environmental benefits we can get from it, which is interesting, not the volume. In the 1970s, the Workers' Party realized that we were using too little electricity in Norway. Then it was about making the power out, so people used even more power. Then they told the House Bank not to lend a loan to build a house with a pipe, because then people had to use electricity for heating. It may not have been a good idea – we'll see later. Then we learned that it wasn't the volume of the use of power that created values, it was something completely different. That's also how we have to think about the gas. We have to get as much value as possible and maximum environmental benefit out of the gas we have. Volume itself is not a goal, that's what we can use the gas for. So is it that traditional use of gas does not create a lot of new jobs. A recent study from California, which has a lot of traditional gas use, shows that investing in new renewable energy sources will create four times as many jobs as it will continue to invest in traditional gas power. There we must also see the context and see that the environmental, climate, gas and oil policies in Norway must be linked if we are to be credible. I registered that the representative Brustad has responded to the initiative on Enova, and that there will be no gassing if it is still to be done under the direction of Enova. It doesn't worry me primarily about gassetting, because I'm sure the majority in this big business is able to take care of it, but if the representative Brustad believes that this also applies to bioenergy, wind and all the other things that we have managed through Enova, I hope you can find out that this is not the case. My main concern about the energy and climate debate is that we can stand in a situation where we do not have a ratified climate agreement. The biggest political task now is to ensure that a sufficient number of countries sign the climate protocol, so we have an international code. It's very vulnerable these days. It is ironic enough that if Russia and Putin do not now ratify the climate agreement, we do not have a valid agreement, and that will be a difficult situation, including for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1263	Thursday 20 February this year was a big brand day in Telemark. At that time, more than 6,000 people went on torch trains to demand gas for Grenland. The demonstration took place during the "Tenn a Flame for Grenland" poster. Let me say it so that it became a burning and flaming commitment. More than 6,000 people wanted to show the Energy and Environment Committee at Stortinget and the whole country that they were busy with jobs and developing the industry in Grenland and Norway. It's rare that there's such a large-scale muster of people today. In addition, the gas requirement is supported by all vocabularies in Telemark and several non-industry organisations. The husband of offensive engagement shall look for a long time. The challenge for Norwegian industry, and especially the Grenland area, is great. Today's lack of industrial policy results in redundancies and high unemployment. It is in many ways a paradox that society spends over $8 billion a year on day money and waiting pay instead of an offensive industrial effort. Therefore, it is so important to use the gas in industrial contexts to provide the basis for long-term industrial workplaces. Of course, this should happen within our international climate commitments and other international environmental agreements. Gas is a raw material that is very low in domestic use. Therefore, there must be a target for all to apply more of this tax on the base – not only in industrial processes but also for energy purposes and as raw material in new products. Therefore, it is as important to set up an innovation company as soon as possible to research domestic use of natural gas and find solutions for hydrogen as energy-bearing. In the Grenland area, we have many large enterprises that are totally dependent on a sheep for new and profitable business to develop and be competitive. In addition, Grenland is perhaps the most competent professional community in Norway for the process industry. Border has infrastructure, experience and people who are perfectly suited to exploiting the gas resources of the sea. The country needs gas, and it would be totally wrong not to take care of and use the gifts that nature has given us. The Norwegian people have a great ownership of these natural resources. For these owners we want jobs, we want development opportunities and future optimization now. This is not just about taking care of the workplace, although it is important. Equally, this is about developing skills and production that can ensure the country even after oil resources end. I would like to remind you that developing gas technology also brings great environmental benefits. The three main points of Telemark are: the establishment of an eco-innovation company through a state-owned company supporting the financing of infrastructure for the transport of gas pipelines to Grenland; Although there is a large number of these principles in Stortinget, I can't see that this case has started with more publications now before a decision can be taken. This is to write off the responsibility for future to Norwegian industry and job refusal in a difficult political matter. The Government Party, SV and the Central Party will again indicate that they are not taking this responsibility. A release now will imply a setback in the creation of a new industrial era based on the use of natural gas. Therefore, the Labour Party believes that it is crucial to make these principle decisions today. I registered that the representative Rahm said in his post that he would take the challenges of Grenland seriously. Yes, he has the ability to do it – he has the ability to do it today. His installation was permeated by many fine words, but very little action. If the Christian People's Party really wanted to take the challenge seriously, they could have found the solution with the Labour Party today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1297	As telemarking with fixed bobel in Grenland, I am very pleased that the future use of gas has now been put firmly on the agenda. The detected gas resources on the socket make Norway a gas producer for the next 50 to 100 years. The gas communication we are discussing today promises to contribute to the development of natural gas infrastructure. However, the Government recognises in the Communication that it is difficult to leave it to the market to expand the infrastructure. The Committee is well-informed by the fact that a broad majority says that the State must make an active contribution. I am pleased that the state's responsibility for infrastructure is both underlined and reinforced in the majority's position. The Right, Christian People's Party, Left and SV – and now with the support of the Centre Party – have decided that the State should contribute financially to the establishment of gas transport infrastructure. In fact, there is no «on and but». The majority ask the Government to specifically explore alternative solutions for leading gas to relevant domestic users. This applies to both pipelines, LNG facilities and CNG installations. As soon as it is possible, but no later than the spring of 2004, the Government shall return to the Grand Duchy with assessments of the following: how the gas can be distributed from landing sites indifferent forms of financing with State participation considerations I have to admit that I am putting myself in the head of the stormy and defensive argument that the Workers' Party is leading towards the majority decision, not only in relation to the debate here today, but especially in relation to the media in Telemark. The case rapporteur, Sylvia Brustad, has been widely quoted and depicted. In Varden on 22 March she rejects all approximations. Anyone who believed in a wide-scale gas settlement has to believe again. On 25 March, she received the title ‘Non-gas pipeline or centre’. There's no way of misery and black paint. Telemark Arbeiderpartis Gunn Olsen is also not very fine in his statements. She uses expressions like "slope" and "blows," and then I quote from the TA on 22 March. I understand that the Labour Party is disappointed that it has not received a majority for its proposal. The lot shall have a rose in order to show a strong willingness to bet. They've been in charge of the industry in Grenland. But it is amazing that the party led the debate on wild tracks in the last round by focusing so hard on the construction of gas power plants. It also surprises me that the party is not able to show will to any compromise. It seems that the best for them has become the enemy of good. Instead of looking constructively at the strong signals and the great possibilities that lie in the majority position, the party chooses to go into the trenches. I hope the Workers' Party will continue to choose a different strategy, and I believe that after Sylvia Brustad's posts here earlier today, where she said that the Workers' Party will still be drivers. So I think the Workers' Party will take the constructive tone again. Because it is not long before the matter goes back to Stortinget, and hopefully it can be before spring 2004. Industry strongly wants as fast a treatment as possible, and industry needs clarification. For Telemark and Grenland, conciliation is of great importance. It is a good platform and many steps closer to a gas pipeline. The wish for an investigation phase should not come as a surprise to anyone. We're handling a big message today. This is not a budgetary procedure. In addition, the Communication is a complex matter which concerns both energy policy, environmental policy, financial policy and industrial policy. No one should disagree with the fact that important aspects have been explored before any final decision is taken. Even the industry acknowledges that the investigation does not have to lead to a postponement. Important principles are established through this treatment. The gas shall be used for industrial value creation, with the country as a long-term investor in infrastructure. And wet gas is included in the themes to be explored further. Infrastructure is considered to be a basic investment in line with road and rail development. This is good for Grenland. I am pleased that leading politicians across parties have so clearly expressed that Grenland is considered to be the most natural place to start. Norway's largest industrial cluster with 5,000 employees is located in an area of 100,000 people. The process industry stands for 6 pst. of Norway’s industrial sport. Today, industry is at a crossroads. Without active further development it will be confused. The foundation needs to be laid for new value creation. 6,000 people have lit a flame for Grenland.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1324	I just want to take the opportunity again to ask a question I have asked to the Workers' Party, which I have not yet received an answer to, namely how to build gas power plants without increasing CO2 emissions nationally. The representative Klungland asked me to read the comments in the settings. I have done that before this debate, I have done that during the debate, and I have not become much wiser, that is. it is noted that not all members of the Workers' Party in the Energy and Environment Group agree with their own policies. But what I can recommend to the representative of Klungland is to read the comments in the context of the climate communication. It's probably both interesting and instructive to read your own comments. And if it is the case that the Workers' Party supports the construction of gas power plants, why can't we then support our proposal, no. Ten? I would like an answer to that – I have not yet received an answer to this. To quote Telemarksavias March 20: ‘The important thing is not whether we build one, two or ten gas power plants, but that the emissions are within the limits we have committed ourselves to.’ It's Stoltenberg who says that. Then I would like to know if someone in the various fractions of the Workers' Party can explain to me: What kind of policy is that applicable to the Workers' Party? Is it the climate message, or is it this gas message we're handling now? I think it's important to clarify, so it's not just a game for the gallery, a game for the voters and the parties that the Workers' Party is doing in this case. I would like to know what kind of policy the Labour Party has in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1335	I would like to leave the representative Brustad to answer these questions, and start by saying that I met the debate on the use of gas in Norway about 15 years ago. Already there was the frustration at Karmøy in Rogaland. They had a gas pipeline over the island for many years, but it was not possible to use the gas on Karmøy. It was difficult to get a complete grip on where the resistance was. Of course, it was argued that it was not commercially profitable. In addition, there was probably not much eagerness from oil companies to create competition for oil, despite the fact that there was already a problem with regard to the security of supply of electricity, a problem that has increased sharply, and that environmental arguments were in line to benefit from any of the gas we produced in Norway. Today we've come a little further. Many of the enterprises, etc. on Carmine, uses gas instead of oil and diesel. That's good. But the jam's been late. We still use only approx. 1 pst. of domestic output. So it was to hope that the message we are handling today gave the bet a lift. Unfortunately, that is not the case. The Socialist Left Party gives the Government multiples representations to an expected and visible policy. That's too bad. The environment argument has not been worse. In addition, we have a subposition of power, which we need to figure out solutions. Nevertheless, there are evaluations and distributions that are the drug from the plural today. And here will be the best enemy of good: the majority will only bet on getting gas power with CO2 handling. It might come in 15 years. Other gas power stations will not have them now. In the meantime, we must send the gas to other sources. Germany and the Netherlands, which will eventually produce power from him. In years of underpower here in the country, probably most of the years ahead, we can then import power from these countries, produced by Norwegian gas. It's more heavy, it's less environmentally friendly, and it's meaningless. And as a result, these are the countries that get the jobs and the value that we could have got, and that we so much need here in the country. Even worse, the current we import is still largely carbon-based and not based on Norwegian gas. But this is the government and the SV's option. Many have called for the Right Industrial Party today. I want to ask you, where is the environmental party SV? The alternative is to grant the construction and operation of gas power plants in Norway the same conditions as in other EEA countries. Everything else is incomprehensible to me. It is also incomprehensible to people outside this country, among others. in Germany, where gas and gas power plants are an important issue for the left-hand side. So we should be actively involved, for the first time, in getting a pipeline to the Grenland area to facilitate the use of gas there, later on to other areas. Transport is a major environmental hazard and causes a great deal of pollution, including pollution. CO2, NOx and particulate matter. The latter is also important, especially in cities. Before trade, the use of gas is a good alternative. This applies particularly to bus and ferry operations. In order to do so, it needs to be better prepared than today: There must be a derogation from the CO2 tax, which is supported by a majority.A gas bus must be used in several cities, which is a minority – the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party – behind it.There must be State support for gas buses and investment aid for the purchase of buses and filling stations in an introductory phase, as the Labour Party enters.There must be support for the construction of gas ferries, and the concession period for ferries layers must be extended monthly where one goes to gas ferries, as the Labour Party enters. It was strange for me to read Skogsholm's response to an interview from the representative Jan Sahl about this almost a year ago. The argument for the use of gas ferries is vague and the conclusion is that it will be evaluated in the course of the journey. It's not particularly offensive, you ask me. I have been told that with the switch to gas ferries in the Boknafjord connection, the reduction in emissions would be as great as if one took away all the bus transport in Rogaland. So here's a lot to pick up. It's sad that the majority is no longer offensive. With the Workers' Party's proposals, our local ferry company would invest in gas ferries. However, there is no need for the majority to be left behind – a sufficiently long concession period and, if necessary, state support. It's going to be interesting to follow the development of a competence centre for end-user technology in Haugaland. Here's a lot of competence that's been there a long time. Otherwise, it is strange that the government, with very active support from SV, is so negative to the gas project Lighte is behind in Rogaland. In our opinion, the use of gas will be an alternative to oil, not to hydropower. It's the Labour Party for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1374	This debate has had a high intensity, and there have been quite strong results. For one who has been used to being supervised by the marketing regulators in a previous life, it is clear that it is not exactly the same as here, the same requirements for accuracy. But maybe it's good that the positions are clear and not suitable to misunderstand. I have once again received a manuscript in my hand where it was said in the margin ‘weak argument, raise the voice’. Some people are holding a consistently very high voice level in this debate. The representative of Klungland had a sad post. It reminded me a little of a writer who has been a lot of progress lately. It was a sad day for the industry. It was sad for the environment. It was sad for the unemployed. It was sad for the value creation. It's a little sad for the Workers' Party too, because you could have influenced a lot by entering into a better dialogue with the government parties at an early stage. The representative of Vaksdal had a post that I had intended to attack, but I have found that he is basically right. He said it would be many years before we got the gas ashore. It's actually so that these pipes are no shelf product on Rimi. It's pretty complicated to add them, so it takes some time. I think we have to count on that. What is my hope is that it will not take any longer with the path we choose – with better investigations. It's a little safer way than what's in the minority proposal. But I have more faith in my colleagues in the Labour Party and in the Advance Party than they do in the government parties. For what are we fighting about today? In reality, there are two alternatives. One option is to set up a company that needs to conduct a series of investigations, and take up with the Government, with the Department, how to move on. The second option is that the government does these things together with the industry and comes back to Stortinget with how to get this done. In both cases it has to be investigated. And let me say a little bit about what we're uncertain about. Let me take Grenland as an example, since it's come the farthest. Both methods of assessment need to determine the size of the pipe. Is it supposed to be a combination pipe or just for dry gas? Where should we possibly take the wet gas? What will a pipe cost? Is the Poland option still valid to some extent? What trajectory do we have to choose, both technologically and economically, to get this right? How much should the State contribute? Can we find opportunities to have similar industrial efforts in Eastfold? Is there anything we can do in Sweden? All these are questions that need to be answered in some way. The question is just how we're going to get enough answers before we make decisions about big investments. It has been said that the message was quite sharp. I won't stand for such an expression. But on the other hand, you could say that now the bulk of the population has moved some markers, you've been more aggressive than the message, just to get some points focused, come to some conclusions faster. That is why it is so important that we have the majority view that we should investigate and come back to the Storting as quickly as possible and with a short deadline. It's not like it's just the government parties that want to set up committees. There's a big majority committee in hydrogen, and that's just to make sure that we're doing the right things. Why are companies moving? Is it because they haven't got gas? It is clear that someone would have enjoyed having gas right now, but that's not why they're moving. The reason they move is that the general conditions have been too poor for a long period, not least because they have had large increases in taxes during periods. Everything has been made difficult, business start-ups have been complicated. Fortunately, you now agree that you should try to simplify. In sum, we've got some good intentions in this message. I think you should be able to move on quite quickly. I'm very concerned about it. I am also concerned that we will get a good infrastructure. All agree that domestic gas will provide important growth impulses. So we want to start as fast as possible. It would be desirable if the Workers' Party could subsidize the majority that is now established, not because they need to agree on everything, but because there must be sufficient pressure, if they are anxious about training, that this is really being properly investigated and put before the Stortinget, so that we can take the important decisions for Norwegian industry, for Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1393	The government says that natural gas should be used more extensively for domestic value creation. This is the Labour Party in complete agreement, and we looked forward to the government party giving leadership for this in the setting. But the setting does not show the way when it comes to value creation, nor does it show the use of gas for industry, except that things have to be redispatched again, and little willingness to use gas in the transport sector. This I think is sad. If I don't use my vocal cord for anything, I think I should be able to argue that I think it's sad, and I expect representatives from other parties to respect arguments. I know Right will use more gas domestically. They've told me that many times, and I actually believed that even the Christian People's Party would. But it doesn't look like that. The SV representative said earlier in the debate today that increasing the use of gas is not an end in itself. We have listened to it in detail later today, but I am still quite disagreeable about it. Because it's a goal for us in the Workers' Party to use a little bit more than 1 pst, and that's what we're talking about today. A little bit more domestic use of gas thinks we're a target. But they're the ones that don't want to use gas. The government's party has been compromised. SV further said that it was inconceivable to use so many state resources on infrastructure. I disagree with SV, but there's no reason to criticize them, because they've been saying the same thing every year, as long as I've been on the Storting. But what's new is that the right hand side is involved in this. I am surprised that the government party will not do what is possible to create new industrial jobs. It's quite right, it won't be tomorrow. It won't be a year, but we have to lay the groundwork for a few years to come, including the use of more gas in the transport sector and the use of gas for electricity. The power situation is now such that we use more electricity produced on highly impurising coal-fired plants in Denmark. We use more for every year that goes, despite the fact that one swears we're going to spend more on renewable energy. We are forced to take a political responsibility for making the production of electricity more consistent with consumption. In the final issue of Energy, all the political parties say that politicians must now take action. Onarheim from Right says that this is why we have to go in for state investment aid for gas power plants. I don't know if the council agrees, but it might be interesting to know. When the Council of State stands here and says that there are granted concessions for three gas power plants, but one does not build, I lack a political initiative from the Council of State. What will the Council of State do to ask both those who have a concession to build gas power plants and the other major regional power plants about what they can do to build up more power, to do more to upgrade the old power plants? What's going on? One must take an initiative to develop more, to achieve more production that is proportionate to consumption. Statoil will build a new energy plant on Mongstad, with a greater use of heat, and it will lead to reduced total climate emissions. This must be given a concession – and at least it's not the Sem declaration, we've established it here today, which is to underpin the assessment, as it's made an impression of earlier. In Hordaland, we've been very busy using more gas domestically. We have selections that have worked for this. In the previous period, we even picked two pieces from the Hordaland bench to work against the departments to make more use of gas. It was Oddvard Nilsen, who is today a parliamentary leader in the Right, and I. We went from the department to the department, both when it was a raging gas ferry and when it was a raging bus in Hordaland, and we were quite a few that we had to get more gas-powered buses and gas ferries to the Halhjem-Sandvikvåg ferry service. Therefore, I am unlikely to be surprised today that the Right will not agree to the proposal proposed by the Labour Party. One shall re-assess measures for the construction of gas ferries. But we don't need any more assessments. We have to say yes to offer and longer concession time. So it's sad for Hordaland too. There has been a lot of talk about Grenland today. I have to say that I am surprised by Ingmar Liones, who says that now there are opportunities to do more both with the buses in Bergen and with the ferries. Yes, it is possible, if one votes for the specific proposal. One doesn't have to do this anymore. That's a good result for the buses in Bergen, and we know and we've seen that NOx emissions get smaller if one gets gas ferries.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1419	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. That's 14 participants. That is, we had to be done at 1:00 in a minute. 15th If the representatives have good discipline in relation to speaking time, it would be realistic to be done before we break the negotiations at noon. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1424	For Telemark, and for the Grenland area in particular, great expectations are attached to the Storting's handling of this matter, and it is easy to understand. Over the last few years, the industry in Grenland has lost a lot of jobs. At the same time, Grenland is the area in Norway where gas is used on a relatively large scale as raw material for industrial production and value creation. Many fear now that these workplaces may be at risk if the industry is not guaranteed a predictable and safe supply of raw materials. This has also been clearly expressed through a strong public commitment to this matter, and it takes SV seriously. This is precisely why SV’s commitment has been aimed at securing these jobs and further developing them within the framework set by Norway’s climate commitments. This is why SV has concluded this agreement with the government parties to put in place a properly reworked basis for taking the right decisions, which are precisely to ensure and further develop value creation and jobs. The agreement and the investigations to be carried out are therefore not about whether or not the State should contribute to job security, but about how this should be done. It has also been established in the agreement that an innovation company for the use of gas should be located in Grenland, precisely to benefit from the high level of competence in this area already existing in the region. Also in the case of waterborne heat, there are interesting projects in Grenland, built on waste heat from industry. Furthermore, it is decided that the Government will contribute to the continuation of the “Green Hydrogen” project on the Notodden. These are examples of SV’s contribution to ensuring a majority of good solutions for Grenland and Telemark. It is also worth noting that many of those who have worked hard for many years to ensure raw material access to industry in Grenland have received a positive and constructive agreement between the government parties and the SV. This applies to both the Telemark Gas Forum and Norwegian Hydro. Then I record that someone believes that the investigations that the majority are in favour of will mean a postponement of the solutions for the industry in Grenland. It's not hard to understand a certain impatience. But to claim, as someone has done in this debate, that this means pushing everything out into the blue, is with respect to notifying to shoot far beyond targets, and it limits to black paint. If there is no need for business and the population in Grenland, there is just black paint and excessive pessimism. Here it's about a long-term bet. A few months of thorough investigation can be impossible what means the hook on the door for these workplaces, on the contrary. Once again, I would like to remind you that the majority of us insist that supplies of raw materials should be secured, and that is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1437	For us in the Workers' Party, it is almost incredible that this landfill message about the domestic use of natural gas does not secure gas pipelines to Grenland. It's been a long time since an issue dealing with industrial development has created so much commitment. It has been a long time since a document has created such high expectations in industry, for example. in Telemark. It has been a long time since such a great hope of maintaining and developing the industry in Norway. It has been a long time since a government has created such high expectations in a matter. The Prime Minister, the representative of Rahm and the representative of Onarheim have contributed to the great expectations. So it turns out that this is just talking, and they won't be involved in investing money in the infrastructure right now. In Telemark, a gas pipeline to Grenland has been on the agenda for many years. The Telemark industrial community has lost thousands of industrial jobs, and we cannot afford to lose more. Norway cannot afford to lose more competence, nor can it afford more industrial workplaces. We're going to look a long time in recent history to find a case that collects 6,000 people in torches to keep smoking in the pipes. People in Telemark have shown great responsibility for continuing industrial development in this country. Grenland has competence in industry. We're not environmental pigs. No area in this country has taken more responsibility for cleaning up the environment than does the Grenland area. That's why we're not afraid to bet on a new industrial venture, which could mean development for the whole region and for the whole country. The working party has maintained its position on the landing of gas to Grenland for several years. We want to spend money on infrastructure. We do not believe that there is any wire without money from the state. We are living afraid to send this matter out on a new desert hike. We've been waiting long enough, we're afraid it'll be too late to save the industrial workplaces. It is incredible that the government could not be with the Workers' Party in this obliging case. It is worrying that it is rather associated with SV. SV is certainly not a guarantor of gas to Grenland. It's rather the opposite. And the government parties know that well. It should have been a happy day. Instead, there will be uncertainty for the future in Grenland. I am amazed by the representative Holmberg's attack on me and the Workers' Party. It can only be due to a bad conscience for one's own country. And attack is the best defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1448	In Norway, little use has been made of our domestic gas resources. By decision today, the majority will provide the basis for much greater availability of natural gas throughout the country. During the work on the gas message, it has been interesting to register the great interest it is in large parts of the country, including Grenland, in order to be able to use the natural gas. We have noted the commitment of Helgeland, Middle Norway, the West, Agder, South East Norway to Grenland and Eastfold. Several Western cities are well placed to increase the environmentally friendly use of natural gas. Mongstad, Kollsnes and Kårstø can be developed as an important and dominant centre of petroleum activity. The Western ferries will provide a good basis for the use of gas ferries through this option. The companies operating the Halhjem-Sandvikvåg routes and over Boknafjord can now look forward to realizing the plans to build gas ferries. Gas buses shall be exempted from the CO2 charge and contracts entered into for the public supply of gas buses must be followed up. The orientation of the representative of Frøiland in previous posts was wrong. I believed that the Gas Bus Bet would also stay behind. The message between other representative Rolf Terje Klungland is, quoted freely, that this is a sad day. Yeah, most of it's sad. This greeting from the Workers' Party to those who want to bet on the use of natural gas must be depressing. The working party could have contributed to the creation of a broad multiplicity for an important principle of industrial use of natural gas in Norway. Instead, the Labour Party has chosen to reverse the issue of the construction of conventional gas power plants. I have had close contact and cooperation with the Labour Party for many years, and I know a good part of the Labour Party's policy. It is therefore for the vote that the Labour Party has seen itself on the sidelines in this matter. The Labour Party and trade unionists have criticised the majority in Stortinget because they are in favour of a new financial arrangement. This will be an unnecessary postponement of investment in infrastructure, it will be claimed. The Labour Party has the right to form a State-owned company with a capital of DKK 3 billion, which is to employ for infrastructure development. So the question is: is the working party really saying that $3 billion is enough to develop the infrastructure for the use of natural gas throughout Norway, or is it just a small part of the country that the Labour Party will provide funds? Therefore the question is, in the light of what was presented in the newspaper Varden 21 March, «Brustad does not celebrate an inch»: Meiner the representative Brustad this, or is there any hope that the representative Brustad can now be involved in further cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1459	The representative Gunn Olsen gave, related to the post of Kari Lise Holmberg, the expression of an old proverb where it says that attack is the best defense. But I have to say that Gunn Olsen really confirmed that there's truth in this, because that's exactly what I feel that Gunn Olsen is doing. She goes into a little panicky defensive position here because you're not in a majority, and has gone a little wrong along the way towards this majority. I also record relatively strong words – it is rare that we hear them from the pulpit here – that are relatively personalised. I can't deal with it because it's not part of my terminology in the political landscape. It is possible that there are others who are more familiar with it. But I can live with it, because I am so upright in relation to what is now done on behalf of Norway as a whole, but also on behalf of Grenland. We've taken a step forward. It's called a retreat for some strange reason, when the actual position and the majority, the posts in the hall, etc. all of them are concreteisations and obligations in relation to the notification – progress has been made. It is surprising that, on the lookout and show, one chooses to see progress as a step backwards. Then I register that Ranveig Frøiland has been up on the pulpit sometimes, and obviously speaks as if she has not read the setting, because she refers to the government parties not wanting to join in and take co-financing responsibility. Either she speaks against better knowledge, or then she hasn't read it, or there's some kind of rhetoric that's supposed to hit someone. The point here is that the government parties have been involved in taking responsibility for further concreteisation. We establish in both the suspension and in our posts that the state should be involved and co-responsibility for the funding, and we also state that, for example, Borders shall be supplied with adequate quantities of gas. So anyway, someone is standing up and saying that that's not the case. Finally, I would like to say that there is so much that is sad a day. Klungland had in mind that this was sad, sad, sad – I think he repeated it three times. Then I'd like to refer to what I said earlier in a line change: if we're really going to help sow pessimism in the industry, we're talking like the representative of Klungland and others, who are now saying that the future is only dark, and there are no points of light. That's when you talk the industry out of Norway. It is a great responsibility which these representatives must also take on board.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1472	Industry has expressed a desire to use more natural gas for domestic production. The Christian People's Party thinks it's great that this important natural resource can be used more actively in some time, and we will make a positive contribution, so that the conditions are facilitated for that very thing. By increasing the domestic use of natural gas, we can help to secure and develop jobs in rural areas, a development that is absolutely necessary for a safe and good local environment. This desired industrial development must take place in accordance with the Kyoto Protocol and other international environmental obligations. We have a clear responsibility for the environment. In the Christian People's Party, we take seriously the call from Gro Harlem Brundtland. We will contribute to sustainable development. Today's debate suggests that the Workers' Party has neither the will nor the ability to see this matter from an environmental perspective. The working party has had its own agenda during the processing of the gas message. They wanted to fight back on the issue of building polluting gas power plants. It didn't work out. The government parties and SV put an end to it – fortunately. It is reassuring that the Workers' Party does not take into account the fact that there is primarily a lack of profitability that makes the construction of gas power plants not a reality. The concession is there. Those who want it can put the spade in the ground tomorrow that day. The Workers' Party would also spend billions of taxpayers' money to build gas infrastructure, without having good plans for how to do this effectively, and without having good studies of the solutions that are environmentally sound. There is a majority on the Stortinget that sees the need for public participation in the construction of natural gas infrastructure, but the government parties and SV will know how best to do this. It wasn't the Workers' Party that was interested in. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) has contributed to a forward-looking policy, which provides a basis for industrial development in the long term, building on Norway's environmental credibility internationally. I think it has been strange today to hear how someone says that it is a sad day, and that this is as sad and sad as it can be at all. I think there is reason to be proud of what has happened today. They have not received what the Workers' Party wanted. What the environment needs gets the environment. And I'm proud of that. That's why this is a good day.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1492	On the right, the gas will be put into service — even in the inland. Yes, inland we also need the gas, as in the rest of the country – Mid-Norway and Grenland have been mentioned. But anyway, we also want to have our share when an infrastructure is built. Once you've listened to this debate, maybe there's another perspective that beats you. To me, it seems that the decision it is now being put forward is paving the way for new attitudes when we think about energy policy, when we think about how to meet energy policy, and what opportunities it offers. Norway has considerable resources in terms of hydropower and oil, and this, of course, has given strong environments in these areas. But the low cost of both of these energy sources has unfortunately also given some one-sidedness in the way we have developed the energy industry. It has thus been a hindrance to the research and development that we need for the future in relation to other energy sources as well. In the long term, this can lead Norway into a behind-the-scenes, which I now feel is taking important action if not to happen. I am pleased that earlier in the debate the Council of State has pointed out the need for Norway to have a broader complex energy portfolio, where, for example, bioenergy is also included. The introduction of green certificates is an important step to welcome. The hinterland is often described as being in the oil shadow. However, the region is in the middle of the sun in terms of competence in these areas. Wide areas and forests provide special conditions for bioenergy, and the competence in terms of hydropower would be unnecessary to mention. Putting natural gas into use, investing in research, investing in the environmental perspective and investing in building up skills in this sector is about adding new algae to Norwegian energy policy and Norwegian energy knowledge. This will release structures and trigger new growth and progress for innovation in environments that are also very important for our part of the country. This is not just about pipes to Grenland or not. In fact, it is about our general approach to energy policy, our willingness to take the environment seriously and our willingness to invest in broad research and a broad national competence in the field of energy. Norway has legitimate ambitions to be an energy nation. The energy of the future in most countries other than ours will be about many energy sources. If Norway is to be in the forefront, we need broad knowledge, a knowledge that goes far beyond what has been our natural assumptions in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1505	It is gratifying that a broad majority of the Biggest give such a clear expression that more of natural gas should be used for domestic value creation. The current government is the first government to start work on expanding gas use infrastructure in Norway. The Labour Party uses a lot of big words, including in this debate, but it is the government parties that act. Natural gas can and should be used in a variety of ways and for different purposes, for direct combustion for different purposes, for electricity production, as raw material in industry and as fuel in the transport sector — e.g. in urban areas where buses play an important role in public transport. The needs of the petrochemical industry for cost-effective and stable deliveries of wet gas are also addressed to the right. Many areas in the country are pointing out to increase their share of natural gas in use. Several places in the West, Agder County, Middle Norway, Helgeland Coast, Grenland and Eastfold are all relevant places to use more of this important natural resource. The heavy-duty industry in Eastfold will be able to make good use of gas either through a branch from a gas pipeline to Grenland or initially via LNG facilities. The strong desire of a clear majority of the Stortinget to involve the public in the co-financing of gas infrastructure is important. On the other hand, we will carry out a responsible and thorough investigation into how to do this and how to do it most effectively. It can't be that you first give billions of dollars to figure out what and how to use the money. A prerequisite for putting natural gas into use in Norway is the development of the necessary infrastructure, but this requires substantial investment and requires the participation of the State in it. It is therefore necessary to examine and clarify the principles of State co-financing and the organisation of the development of natural gas infrastructure. Right, it's a commitment when we want to spend so much of the taxpayers' money that we first investigate how to use the money. We must first put the economy on the table in the infrastructure projects before we give money for this. Such an investigation will not delay the gas projects. The government has been given a one-year period to get the necessary facts on the table. The working party sat in government for a year and a half without doing anything to investigate this. After reading the position of the committee, I think it is remarkable that there are so many and different majority in this case – remarkable because the real distance between many of the different majority is very small. And if the case rapporteur and her party had had a lack of will for it, it would have been possible to bridge the differences of opinion that appear to be present. But no. There has obviously been a desire to cultivate rail disputes instead of reaching the most overall position possible. In the absence of offensive cases, the Workers' Party is now embarking on a career in which the billions are flagging, completely without investigations and preliminary work, in an attempt to buy a break-up among the voters. The taxpayers have over the years paid billions in the form of misguided investments because of these errors.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1521	The representative Øyvind Halleraker had a good point earlier today. He pointed out that inversely proportional to the rise of the Workers' Party increases populism. I believe that this debate has clearly illustrated this. And the government parties have said it outright, they were unable to do anything about the Workers' Party in this matter. Of course, it's flattering for self-esteem to know that you were the first choice. It should not come as a surprise to the Workers' Party that SV is there – they chose to give the Government a cold shoulder. I am very pleased that the government chose to accept our extended hand in order to settle this matter. Because that's a good deal that we're happy with. We're getting an investigation of the infrastructure issue. And it's not like we've concluded in advance. We'll see facts on the table and get assessments of both economic and technical solutions before we draw the final conclusion. We also get a wide-ranging national hydrogen sample. It's been very important to us. And these investigations are to be coordinated in time. A State guarantee scheme for waterborne heat shall be investigated. It is important to achieve this energy conversion, which is very central if we are to move forward in relation to our energy policy. We have a mandatory green certification market, which is important for providing economic incentives to increase the production of new renewable electricity. And not least: the climate agreement from last year is solid. The use of gas for energy purposes shall enter the greenhouse gas allowance system. The overall gas settlement concluded by the Swedish Government and the Swedish Government once again illustrates that there is a majority here in the Chamber of Good Environmental Policy and a Good Climate Policy, when the Government will. And it's not, given the composition of the Stortinget and the Government's Sem Declaration, a majority for a strong commitment to conventional gas power plants. No one had thought that SV would ever go in for it, either in the LO circuits or in the Workers' Party. It's not because we don't like people's jobs, but because we have a better recipe for how to create the jobs of the future. Despite many of the contributions from the Workers' Party here today, I actually choose to live in hope. I hope that in the long term we will be able to join the Workers' Party and the trade union movement in developing the energy and industrial policy of the future, and start transforming society towards the necessary ecological sustainability. It's a huge project, and we need the trade movement, we also need the Workers' Party – we all need to be part of that project.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1534	The Labour Party has had a clear message here today, and that is that we want to use gas, and we want to give it the clear signal here and now – and I have to say that I am very proud of that. This debate has been elucidating on some points in many ways. What I think it has been clarifying is that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party will today give a signal that we want to use the gas in Norway. SV is extremely pleased to have got the government parties on a settlement that involves: no guarantees for infrastructure, pipes to Grenland and LNG receivers. SV has clearly stated in several rounds that they would rather not, so I understand that SV is very satisfied with this. I also believe Onarheim when he says he wants to. And I also think that if Onarheim had been determined, this would have reconciled look different. But the point is that there are also others that clearly decide, and that will be in a different direction. I react a little to someone trying to shift responsibility over to us because we would not be involved in a settlement. Well, we would be in a deal, but we would be in a deal that meant that we could give some guarantees that there were some jobs built on the basis of this, that we actually got some of the polluting ferries that are now going around, with gas ferries, and that we could also do something about the energy situation. It was no problem to agree on anything and disagree on anything else. But the government parties wouldn't be in it. It's a choice they've made. So the question of investigations about what's done in the past. It is now about six years since the Stortinget had a gas message for processing. Our government presented a concrete action plan for the use of natural gas in Norway. The store said they wanted a new message. We have received it – many good visions, but very little concrete. And I'm not impressed by that proposal government there had to infrastructure, which was to add a few million into Enova. And I underline: I have nothing against Enova, it was the Workers' Party that proposed to create Enova. But I'm against them taking care of the gas infrastructure, because that means there won't be any gas around Norway. That's why we wanted another company, and that's why we wanted money. But let me stress: everyone who has been involved in this debate and read the position knows that these are not subsidies. This is money under the line. And when the Council of State and others here say that this should then affect the rule of action, etc., that is not right. For this, equity is also equity, and the expenditure side of the country will not be affected by this. Then I also have to say at the end that I have been in several rounds a little surprised by the committee leader Rahm's statement. First, he is quoted as saying that one could not achieve anything more than what one has received. That's wrong. He and some other representatives have also tried to produce it so that the reason why it was not a settlement was that Jens Stoltenberg was in Grenland a week ago and said that the Workers' Party could be open to build gas power. It's nothing new. And besides, the government parties had decided before Jens Stoltenberg was in Grenland. So don't blame others, take responsibility for what you stand for, sail!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1549	First, in line with many previous speakers from the Workers' Party, I regret that a majority in the Grand Duchy, consisting of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the SV, today decide to postpone the decision to build gas pipelines to Grenland, where the state participates through co-financing. It's a setback, especially for the industry, an industry that we're totally dependent on, and that has huge problems because competitors have better framework conditions, among other things. through access to natural gas. There is no doubt that a gas pipeline to Grenland is among the most effective food policy instruments we can deploy for the area now. And there is a need for tools at a time when jobs disappear here every day in the country, businesses move out or are laid down. However, it does not seem that the Government and the Swedish Government are particularly concerned about making a binding decision now, which would give industry a new boost and new optimism. Gas to Grenland is an important first stage in supplying natural gas to the Central East. Therefore, decisions are so important now, because urgent action is needed, and several areas are waiting to put the gas into service. If we first got gas to Grenland, there are also opportunities to get gas to Østfold present, and also to Sweden. Eastfold Gassforum is already established. It is a cooperation forum consisting of 25 central companies, organisations and municipalities in the county. Eastfold Gassforum is working to safeguard Eastfold's regional policy interests in terms of accessing gas. Eastfold has a significant natural gas market. Large industrial enterprises such as: Overall, Borregaard would have a more robust competitive energy supply with much lower emissions than today if natural gas were available. It would also give much less emissions to other large companies that currently use heavy oil as energy. The market has been surveyed by Østfold Energie, and a likely market that can be rapidly realised is supply to the heavy industry in the county. This start-up market needs a total of 130 million m3 of natural gas per year. years already. Now we can see that, and the need can get bigger. The heating market other than the heavy industry, transport and development of new businesses, etc. will, of course, further increase the market and the conditions for such development are very good in Eastfold, as the heavy industry can be the backbone of a distribution system that can also supply other markets. But today’s decision does not give much hope that the goal is closer. The Labour Party will regret that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1566	There has been a fresh debate. It has been characterized by a good deal of rhetoric. I'm not going to comment on that. After all, the impression of where the positions stand in this debate has become more balanced. There have been allegations of delays, of industrial failure and of the kind of statements that have been thoroughly refuted through the debate. Ranveig Frøiland said at the beginning of this debate that the Workers' Party will, of course, carry out the necessary investigations for infrastructure and other tasks. At the same time, the Labour Party argues that the majority position means a postponement of important projects based on the use of gas. What is the postponement of the majority vote if the Workers' Party has to implement the same projects anyway? I also show that the industry has largely been very satisfied with this position. This applies not least to the industry in Grenland. I will repeat the warning that has also been given earlier in this debate, namely the warning to create negative, fatalistic attitudes to what is to happen now. There are no such signals the industry needs, nor are there such signals that should apply in the wake of this debate. For my part, I am very pleased with the setting. I'm recording that not everyone is. However, let me be allowed to invite the whole Stortinget to a broad cooperation. I would like to invite the Labour Party and the Advance Party to conclude the series of important industrial policy initiatives in the future. Let me say to Sylvia Brustad's calculation in terms of so-called under the line-money: I want to once again show that for every single penny taken into equity of such companies, 4 pst. go over the line-money. It's an arithmetic that you have to have, and don't give a wrong idea of how the socio-economic conditions turn out. So I would also say that this government has set aside almost 80 million. kr for the current year’s infrastructure budget. And then we have 20 million. in the authorizations for the award of the contract. So it's closer to 100 million. kr which is completed for infrastructure. No other government has similarly spent money on infrastructure. Neither did my predecessor, Olav Akselsen. So let there be no doubt that this government is also betting on infrastructure. I believe that when dust falls after this debate, there will be a political landscape in which opportunities for cooperation on political responsibility and action on a sensible, forward-looking and well-established policy for increased use of gas in Norway can be demonstrated.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1587	There has been a common denominator in this debate that very many express concern for Norwegian industry and for Norwegian district policy. The big questions are, what do we do with concern? What kind of signals do we send to the Norwegian industry? And what kind of signals do we send out in relation to Norwegian district policy? For me, it's natural to be particularly concerned with the situation in my own home state, the Nord-Trøndelag. I think that the situation there is incredibly challenging and should worry the whole hall. We know that the Nord-Trøndelag is an agricultural-dependent state, facing major challenges related to migration that arise as a result of the WTO negotiations. We know that one third of the Nord-Trøndelag are in the area that has reduced the employer’s fee and that now has to expect great demands for conversion and challenges. And we know that Nord-Trøndelag is typically a state where the small industry is experiencing significant problems, in terms of closure, deflagration, etc. What can we look for from positive opportunities and projects in a district like the Nord-Trøndelag? What are there plans that can be implemented to create optimism? Industrial power Mid-Norway, in cooperation with one of its strong owners, Norwegian Forest, has planned a landing of gas into Trondheimsfjorden to build a cogeneration plant on Forest. It must again form the basis for Norwegian Forest to make new investments in the paper factory at Skogn. Norwegian Forest now sits and assesses: Where are we going to build a new paper machine – billion investment as it is? Well, we have to build it in a place where we know that we have access to not least enough energy. There are two alternatives that Norwegian Forest now roughly evaluates. It's either building on the Forest in the North Throne Layer, or building in Austria. Why is Norwegian Forest considering building in Austria? Yes, there is access to Norwegian gas. In Austria, Norwegian gas is available, but not in Forests. That's why the Norwegian Forests, trade unions, the NHO, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Right and the Workers' Party are all now joining forces in the Nord-Trøndelag with demands for action now. That's why the North Troops today say that the decision Stortinget makes is bad, it's not good for us. And if others think it's a joy day, then they don't have to impose on us as votes for another scheme, to travel to the Nord-Trøndelag and explain that it's a joy day, don't impose a problem on us that we actually agree with the industry in the Nord-Trøndelag and say that this is a sad day.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1603	It's almost 15 o'clock. Since there are only four speakers left – unless it is suddenly said in a whole lot of three-minute speeches – the President will propose that the morning meeting continue beyond the regulatory time, so that we can finish the debate on this matter before the meeting is cancelled. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1606	I want to take the opportunity to start with some adult education. And after the debate we have had today, I hope that there are more than the representative of Korsberg who is now listening to what I am going to say. One of the most important contributions in relation to our CO2 obligations in the future is that we are able to electrify the socket. Another important contribution is that we get research and development of gas power plants with CO2 management. A third is that we can use the gas in the transport sector and in industry. And the last and perhaps most important contribution is that we go our way towards a hydrogen society. That's why the Workers' Party has a policy that adds up to it. If it had been so that the Progress Party would have taken the climate problems seriously, if the Progress Party had pursued a policy that meant that we should comply with international agreements and obligations, and if the Progress Party had not conducted a polling policy, but a more long-term, proper policy – yes, in fact, I think they would have understood where the Workers' Party will. I understand that the government parties today need to leave all the doors open. The political situation is that next time the government will be forced, both in climate policy and in relation to using the gas, to go to parties other than those with which they have now entered into a settlement. That's why it's now going to be a postponement. The agreement with SV has resulted in a delay in using the gas in Norway rather than in implementing concrete measures. We've spent tens of billions of dollars adding gas pipes to Europe. I have not heard the big protests until we spend a few kroner on adding them to Norway. I think it's a strange rhetoric when you claim that you have to figure out something that you've been doing for 30 years. It's good for the environment, some say about the deal. Yes, I mean we've seen that this winter, because we've never imported more coal power, gas power or nuclear power than what we've done this year. Is that good for the environment? Is it Norway’s limit values for climate emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1621	I think I'm the party leader who has worn the bench in this hall most today. It's not very strange, because I'm born and raised in Grenland. I have spent much of my childhood at the width of Gunnekleiv, before it was possible to see the bottom of it, and feel strongly for the industrial development in Grenland. There are a lot of things that surprise me about this debate. First of all, it surprises me that the Labour Party and the government parties did not get us into the bargain by entering into a settlement. Because it is not exactly so that the representative Onarheim shines with love for SV when he is going to explain this agreement. I think that is an honest matter, but I think it is a sign that it is difficult to take the Workers' Party's proposals and comments in this Chamber seriously. If the will had been present, I think one would have come much further in the direction of a settlement about this. That's the one thing I'm amazed at. The second is how fast the debate is going to be a debate on gas power plants, and not just on one or two or three gas power plants, but on the most possible gas power stations, with minimum restrictions. And there we are at one of the heart of the debate, because we cannot build an infrastructure for gas that we neither have an economic overview nor an environmental policy overview of what it means. The industry in Grenland is not worthy of being a poor little fig leaf for someone who really has a different agenda, namely to build the most possible gas power plant. The industry in Grenland has undergone difficult changes from the time I grew up in the Grenland area in the 1960s – what came out of the pipes, we didn't know what was, and what came out into the sea, we didn't know what was – to a sustainable industry, which we now have, because we found that point, because the environmental movement actually stood on, which made it a sustainable industry there. We understand very well the concerns of those who depend on the industrial workplaces in Grenland for which investment decisions are being taken in the future. But no one is making investment decisions in Grenland ahead of buttons, gloss, air locks and fig leaves. These are investments that will last for 30, 40 or 50 years, and it is not the case that any commercial operators take them on the basis of the exploitability of the Workers' Party in a cancellation. I have trouble realizing that this is serious. I have trouble understanding that NOK 3 billion for infrastructure across the country in a company that is going to be commercially profitable would actually provide one meter of gas pipeline in the direction of Grenland. On the contrary, this is a matter that needs to be thoroughly worked through economically, because it is another matter to use it for industry. That's SV positive. But we can't do that without having an environmental overview of the consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1634	I would like to congratulate Kristin Halvorsen. Last Friday she said she was very pleased with the Government's security policy, defence policy and position in relation to Iraq. Today she applauds the fact that she has stopped a concrete decision to set up an infrastructure company to provide money, in which, through that decision, we would have determined that it is a public task, not a commercial one, but a public one, to provide a proper infrastructure, i.e. pipelines for gas up to Forest and to Grenland, and possibly later also to Eastfold. I expect them to notice that Kristin Halvorsen has managed to stop it in the Grenland area. But the party that amazes me is the Right, which is now in two very important policy areas, namely security policy and foreign policy, in the bosom of Kristin Halvorsen from the Socialist Left Party – from the Socialist Left Party. So the same thing has happened in terms of industrial construction and value creation. It should be something that's not quite comfortable. State Council Steensnæs invites everyone to cooperate. Yes, it's always the technique of government councillors and prime ministers from the Christian People's Party when they're in a party political corner. They then invite broad cooperation to remove everything called party politics between different positions. But if you're inviting to cooperate, you have to be willing to kidnap. That's what happened now. The government was not willing to jeopardize itself. So the representative onarheim says that you just have to figure out more where the pipeline should be, and other things. No, it's not a matter for the authorities to investigate. We need to get the company in place, which, of course, in a commercial way and in a knowledge-based way, we need to find out how things are going. It's not a political task to draw pipelines on a map, either for the ministry. But to put in place the company that is just going to launch it – while there is a signal that this is a public infrastructure task, where the money for the pipeline is not necessarily seen as a profitable commercial project, because then you have to look at depreciation times of 15 and 20 years – we look at corresponding road construction, because then you can have a perspective when you have to calculate tariffs to send gas through the pipeline, 40, 50 and 60 years, and then you get a quite different price. The political resolution is not when we are going to use gas domestically, but if, today, together with the Workers' Party, we are going to make the real decisions, and then the implementation of a company can be implemented. It's not suitable for further investigation. And it's disappointing that the Right has given up as important things as they've done lately.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1651	Brother Yngve Rahm has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1654	I wasn't going to take the word any more, but when Carl I. Hagen did, I'd like to be allowed to follow up. He accuses, among other things: Right to not run industrial policy and Christian People's Party in order to be needed in a corner. What I can say is that those who are currently outside any influence on energy policy and on gas policy are the Progress Party and the Workers' Party. And there they haven't sat down using the government parties, but there they've sat themselves. The process has progressed towards the conclusions drawn, distanced itself from the possibilities of some conciliation – to the extent desirable – with the government parties by increasing the randomly selected sum from DKK 4 to 5 billion. Thus a distance was created, a self-marking was created, but no industrial construction was created. We've seen that before. When the Progress Party has incidentally spent money on projects that have not been planned, we have seen that this did not necessarily go so well. IT Fornebu is an example of this, and we have been involved in the FATIMA project earlier, where state councils at that time were accused of not having properly supported their construction projects, and possibly going to court against Kjell Opseth. That kind of industrial construction we don't want to be involved in, we're going to think about it on a solid basis. And in this case, the Progress Party has not contributed to this construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1664	The representative, Hagen, said something right. He said that if you want to cooperate, you have to be willing to jeopardize yourself a little. This applies not least to the two parties which are currently in the Chamber and complain that the other parties are not involved in their case, namely the Labour Party and the Advance Party. As far as I can see, neither the Workers' Party nor the Advance Party have been willing to move one millimeter to try and settle here in the Chamber on the use of gas. Then I think it's a little strange that they're using the whole debate here today to accuse the majority that's agreed on. I would say that what the Labour Party is doing today is that they are not at all realistic about this issue. What the Workers' Party seems to think about today is self-marking in relation to its own primary position, but without looking at what it is possible to achieve wide-ranging settlements about in the Storting. I think that's a pity, because it's clear that the Central Party is also of the opinion that what we are adopting today is important, and we have several possible choices regarding gas infrastructure in the future. We can choose pipeline system, or we can pick coastal gas based on LNG solution. But what both the Labour Party and the Advance Party know is that there is no majority in this Chamber with the government now in place to lay pipelines without setting environmental requirements related to power generation of gas. It's just reading the Sem statement to see it – simple math! Then I think it's remarkable that one stands in a position in Stortinget where neither in committee proceedings nor in the course of the debate has been willing to jeopardize himself at all, as Carl I. Hagen said, in order to try to achieve a settlement. The centre party initially wanted to go beyond what the government parties and SV do, in the sense that we wanted that one could now have had a commitment from the state to enter a pipeline into Grenland, but then on condition that the environmental requirement for gas power generation, i.e. CO2 removal, must be at the bottom if the State is to enter as a partner. So far, the majority does not choose to go today, but we think it is more important to be able to jeopardize the majority that exists, and also to be concerned with the timetable for the further investigation that is to take place now, than to be fully on the sideline. And I honestly think it becomes pointless when the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen earlier here today makes it appear that North-Trundellag County was unilaterally dependent on the construction of a gas power plant with traditional gas power technology in Forest. I don't have that bad faith about my own state. There are many opportunities in the Nord-Trøndelag for further industrial development. I think that instead of constantly digging ourselves into a debate about gas power plants locally and regionally in Trøndelag, we should look at some of the possibilities where we could agree to build further.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1675	In contrast to the representative Arnstad, I have actually been negotiating this case, and what the representative Arnstad here says is not right. The thing was that the government parties were not interested in being involved in anything more than investigations. It was too bad for us in the Workers' Party, and so has Carl I. Hagen confirmed in relation to the Progress Party. In fact, I believe that we should have respect for our point of view. We couldn't be in a situation that was as bad and as non-committal as the majority in this Chamber is now in favour. It's not to jeopardize yourself by trying to get results. Then I must also say that I am somewhat surprised at Kristin Halvorsen, who in his post says that it is difficult to take the Workers' Party seriously. We have been ready in this matter from day one: we were busy creating jobs. The industry has given us one clear message, which has not been misunderstanding, and it has been that if we stop sending the gas out of the country – today 99 pst. out of the country – must be involved in infrastructure. There's nothing to figure out. That is why we have said that we will give a clear signal that this is what we will do, because we are interested in building jobs in Norway and not sending all this gas out of the country, with the loss of jobs it brings to our country. That is what this debate is about. And what lies in the agreement is very non-committal, both in relation to Grenland and in relation to other places around the country. And that SV is satisfied with that, I understand very well, because they have not been interested in using this gas in our country at all. To the question of gas power plants, there is nothing new for anyone in this room that the Workers' Party is also concerned with building gas power plants. We believe that it is unacceptable when both industry and many consumers in Norway today pay far too high electricity bills because the energy nation of Norway has faced a situation where we are not able to produce enough power. Instead, we import a lot of coal and nuclear power. But the matter was that it was fine to agree on infrastructure and nevertheless disagree on gas power plants. I have to say that I react when some parties here – because the Workers' Party has now, as before, been involved in gas power plants – try to create the impression that that's what makes a compromise. We have clearly said that the most important thing for us in this case is to put in place an infrastructure that enables us to build jobs. That's what's most urgent. And then we also said that there is no accident if we get some gas power plants. But it has not been decisive for us in this matter. And when Brother Yngve Rahm stands and harps on as he does, and says that we only have some random sums, I would say that Prime Minister Bondevik raised about the same amount when he was visiting Telemark. And if it's random sums -- well. But the point is that we want pipes to Grenland, and we want infrastructure. We want to give a clear signal about it now, and we think there's no reason to figure it out in the knowledge and the broad, if you know what you want. It's not irresponsible, it's responsible, and it's building the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1690	There are now increasing numbers on the list. If there are many more, we need to consider continuing the debate at the evening meeting. 18th@item: inlistbox The people who have been enlisted are Carl I. Hagen, Kristin Halvorsen, Jon Lilletun and Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1695	First to Brother Yngve Rahm, who was able to compare this with a road development that was thoroughly investigated and evaluated, and which had been throughout the process and had been presented to the Stortinget, who then approved it. That's the process Onarheim was talking about here. It was finished when the FATIMA allocation and the plans went through here in the house, which was then twice as expensive. It's no wonder that we're reacting. But it was actually a road project. It was not a company to provide infrastructure. So for me, it's not crucial whether these pipelines cost 3, 4 or 5 billion kroner. I think of it as repositioning of assets. We're replacing some shares in Coca-Cola and Philip Morris with a pipeline that can lay the foundation for some jobs, which may also be the basis for power generation, and which can be involved in building the country, just like we build roads, based on whether there's traffic. Here we know the volume of traffic. Here we know that it can be exploited. But Marit Arnstad was interested in something interesting about the majority in the hall. I know that my party colleague, Per Sandberg, also said something about it before today. But when we look at the history, we see that the Right was willing to throw a government to get to gas power plants. Now the Right is in government and prevents the same gas power plant because the taboos are so much more interesting. Then some start to ask, is it really the way we have to go about another government in order to get a real industrial policy, get to value, get to some sensible things? Should the Right be set free from the clumsy hand that they feel from the Left and Christian People's Party when it comes to pursuing a sensible industrial and value creation policy, energy policy, not to talk about security policy? It's starting to form a pattern. And it may be that eventually it is the Right Love to sit in government that becomes the path of the Government. That should be right-wing thinking about when they're in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1709	I'll try to keep a tone as objective and sober as possible. I might think that the IT Fornebu alliance in this room should be jumping down a couple of heels, because they've taken the chance before when it comes to wiping out millions to build the country. So you have to know what to do when you invest billions of dollars, both in terms of economics, and in terms of environmental accounts. That has to be the starting point for us. So for domestic gas use: we in SV are positive for the use of gas for process and industrial purposes. But it's a disappearing little part of the gas that we export per. today, proceeding. Most of it goes to energy. And, of course, it cannot be guaranteed, as both the Labour Party and the Progress Party know, that such a large and comprehensive infrastructure effort that is being discussed here now will not, in the next round, lead to an environmental policy that we cannot actually stand for. It's that simple! We have to put that on the table before you start investing billions of dollars. Then I have a very strong wish at the end of the debate: I think that the black paint that you have come with in relation to the situation in Grenland can lead to the table catching. It may be that one, two or three percent can be obtained at the next election campaign, but that is not what industrial investors in Grenland take into account when making their decisions. That is why, in fact, what is being said from this speaker, is quite important in terms of the future of the industry in Grenland. And what the majority of people today have decided is how to make use of gas in the industry in Grenland, and the investments that may be remunerated economically and environmentally by those studies are to be submitted to the Stortinget. You really have a broad majority behind it. That is why my strong call for the Workers' Party and the Advance Party is: Mute that use of words – it can be magic in words! Realize that there have actually been some steps on the way to decisions, and vote subsidiaryly for what is the majority! That would be the signal that went to the decision-makers, that we don't run politically, and that could give some optimism in Grenland, instead of the black paint that I have unfortunately heard in too many posts. It is possible you are concerned about Grenland, but I have my doubts – I have to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1720	What got me to take the floor was the claim from the representative Brustad that Prime Minister Bondevik should have been in Grenland and promised about the same amount. It doesn't match the truth at all. What Prime Minister Bondevik said was a complement to what is stated in the Gas Communication, namely that there should be State co-financing for the infrastructure. It is also in the setting from the plural that this should be the case. When a plurality on the Stortinget actually decides that, it is wrong for the case-speaker and representatives of the Progress Party today to say that we are going away from what is promised for state co-financing. It says in the message, the Prime Minister has said so, and a large majority here today say that we should have State co-financing. Then I thought it would be untimely to present it as if it were the opposite that happens here. I ask the representative Brustad to be sorry for the misinformation about what the Prime Minister has said. What's real is that neither the Labour Party nor the Progress Party have today documented what kind of distribution they're building on when they're dealing with the number they've come up with. Then the representative rallied Hagen quite vigorously. The truth is, if there is someone who has changed the policy when it comes to government involvement and the use of government resources, then it is the Progress Party and the representative Hagen. I can find the setting where one goes against this type of government waste, and then one has changed the policy. That's the law, but the way it's being raided on others is quite surprising. I have to say that I am quite disappointed that one, when State Council Steensnæs invites to cooperate with the plural here today, and with the Progress Party and the Labour Party, says that it does one because one is needed in a corner. The truth is, there's a lot of people here in the room today. One is not needed up in any corner at all, and then one says nevertheless that one wants to cooperate. If you're busy with Grenland, of Trøndelag, of the coast and of industrial construction, yes, say it's good to be invited to cooperate: we're ready to cooperate. When the distributions are done, I hope we'll be able to find a broad majority that will secure both sustainable development and the environment, and that will ensure jobs and settlement along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1731	The representative of the Labour Party has stood on this platform and said throughout the day, and as Sylvia Brustad, the rapporteur of the case, repeats, is a notion that everyone else in the Chamber, except the Labour Party and the Advance Party, is opposed to the use of domestic gas, because one does not agree exactly with the solution presented by the Labour Party. A more incorrect picture could not be drawn. If a worker's party has that as a starting point, it might not be so strange that they have failed to reach agreement with other parties. It is reasonable that one faces a question and a matter in which the whole Storting agrees that one should increase the domestic use of gas. One is almost a hundred percent in agreement on how it should be done in the transport sector. One agrees on the use of gas in relation to ferries, and one also largely agrees on the use of industrial gas. The point one disagrees with is the use of gas for power generation, where the Workers' Party has a different view from that of the other batches. If the Workers' Party had sat down and carried out a simple mathematical test before they began to deal with this matter, they would see that they did not have a majority for their view, because of the government constellation and the Sem statement we now have. The working party should perhaps, if they had really been concerned about the industry, and if they really would have increased domestic use of gas, sit down and think: how are we going to be able on this basis to obtain a majority that will increase domestic use of gas? But the Workers' Party didn't. No, the Labour Party has made some demands, they have not been able to pass on those demands, and they have used the day today to tell us that everyone else who does not agree with their demands is against the use of domestic gas – a pointless way of dealing with a case. The matter is of great importance to many regions in this country, and all parties had been served that they had seen the matter in real terms. One can discuss the history, as Carl I. Hagen does, but if one is really concerned that an industrial is going to get something, based on the setting we have here today, one must also relate to today's reality picture. The real political picture suggests that if the Workers' Party and the Advance Party were to have a majority here today, they would have had to move in relation to their own position on gas for power generation. They haven't been willing to do that, so they've stood in the middle of a corner, where they've been through the whole debate. It is possible that this will function well as a rhetoric in the local election campaign, but decent in relation to the case, in relation to the desire for a robust gas industry in Norway and in relation to the wish for the widest possible political gathering on some objectives in the field of gas policy – it is not!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1742	It was the representative Arnstad from the same state that made me take the floor. I hear the representative Arnstad is very concerned with consensus. Then it is interesting that Marit Arnstad at least does not agree with his own party in Nord-Trøndelag. The centre party in Nord-Trøndelag therefore supports the Progress Party and the Workers' Party in this matter. I think it's interesting that the central party representatives who operate and live in the county have a completely different view than their own staging representative on how to get to industrial development in Nord-Trøndelag. It can be interesting to look up against election fighting, etc. Then the representative says Arnstad there are alternatives. Yes, then I challenge the representative Arnstad to tell Norwegian Forest and Verdalskalk how they will save the competition in the future if they don't get gas. The Nordtrunderbenken has had meetings with all business life in the Nord-Trøndelag, and they say that it stands and falls to get gas into Trondheimsfjorden and into Norwegian Forest, so that they can take advantage of the system of gas coming there. Also Verdalskalk depends on it, and many other jobs that exist today. But it also offers opportunities for more jobs. The alternatives that I think the Center Party is thinking about, obviously apply to the primary industry. But now the Center Party and Marit Arnstad also know that employment in the primary industry will go down dramatically no matter what the Center Party may think of it. It is also a challenge for Nord-Trøndelag. That's not an option. Nor is it an alternative to pumping the northern municipalities full of money, so that they can hire even more bureaucrats. I challenge the Center Party, and especially then the representative Arnstad, to tell the North Thrusters and the industry in the North Throne Team what the alternatives are if you don't get gas. In relation to the Right, which today praises this agreement, and to the Christian People's Party, which today praises this agreement, it is worth noting that the SV in the North Tribute Team also praises this agreement. Today, County Representative Tegen from SV stands out in Trønder-Avisa and states that SV is very pleased with the reconciliation with the government parties. And the reason why this agreement is so positive is that it puts a final stop to the construction of gas power plants in the forest, where Norwegian Forest lives. So this is what the right-hand side has agreed on. This, I think, actually becomes the reality and end of this matter that is under consideration today. Norwegian Forests are likely to fly into both Austria and other countries in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1755	The President begins to understand the depth of the expression: it's going to be a bullet to a trouser.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1758	There might have been a bit of audacity, especially from the representative Carl I. Hagen. Let me just briefly say this: there has been a discussion about infrastructure. In fact, this government has also allocated money to infrastructure. That's the way it's been allocated 35 million this year. kr in support of infrastructure. In total, 78.7 million have been made available. kr and given an undertaking authorisation of 20 million. kr. So there's no disagreement in this room about spending money on infrastructure, but there's a limit. I actually thought that the representative Carl I. Hagen remembers some of the projects that have been kicked in this house, something like what's here now. Here we are talking about NOK 3-7 billion without a fully explored project. I also remember that the representative Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party in connection with, among other things, The FATIMA project, which many people have been involved in, had a long investigation into how badly this was investigated. Let me also remind Mr. Carl I. Hagen that the Gardermo project started at NOK 4 billion and ended at NOK 11 billion. This house should have learned that if you adopt projects, it is a minimum requirement that you have investigated the projects, so that you know what to contribute to. It also has something to do with long-termity. Of course, the industry in Norway is entitled to know what is involved, how they are to contribute and how they are to be carried out. And then we get to come back and see how we're going to do this. I am convinced that if you carry out this project as signaled here, we will go to a new project where you will explain afterwards what the money has gone to. And then I'm convinced that Carl I. Hagen is going to be the first representative to criticise the Government for the fact that the project is too poorly investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1769	First to the representative Arnstad: I have not said that all other parties in this room are against the use of gas. Both I and other speakers from the Labour Party have tried to say what we think, namely that we think what lies here from the majority, is too low a commitment to the situation we stand in. So to what the representative Lilletun took up in relation to the Prime Minister. What I said was a quote from Varden, and of course I have to make sure that it is correct. What is written there on February 15th is: ‘Minister of State Kjell Magne Bondevik opens a three-billion-dollar gas gap for Grenland.’ That's what I showed you. Then I can also reassure Lilletun that we have said that we are too gas, and we are going to be too in the future. Based on what has now been said at the end of the debate, where I feel that some parties have reinforced their message, I have to say that I look forward to the investigation that is coming, because there I understand that there is going to be a lot of good things going on in gas around the country. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1784	Marit Arnstad has had the word twice and gets 1 minute's speaking time to a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1787	I'm just taking the word short to give a little answer to the representative Sandberg. Let me first say that yes, there are divided opinions in the Center Party on gas power plants. It is in many other parties as well. Even the Workers' Party, which here believes they seem quite unison, has divided opinions about gas power. I think we have to live with that, and the Center Party lives well with it. We have a reasonable discussion within the party about it. With regard to the options available in relation to the Nord-Trøndelag and the gas, I would say that there is one alternative to the Advance Party's option, and it is to build a pipeline across Trondheimsfjord, where the state enters as a jointer and spends money on it, but then on condition that the gas power plant undertakes to remove the CO2 emissions. There's one possibility. The second option is simply to transport gas inwards through Trondheimsfjord as LNG, a business that has already started and on which both transport companies and some forward-looking industrial enterprises in Trøndelag have prepared. There are two possible alternatives that could have the gas inwards through Trondheimsfjord, for the benefit of Northern and Southern business. Unfortunately, none of the parties, either the Labour Party or the Advance Party, want to assess it, and so it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1798	The representative of Oddvard Nilsen is trying to compare this with the FATIMA project. That's what I've said in the past. It was a road project that didn't solve any traffic problems. It was possible to get to these places without this tunnel. In the case of the Gardermoban, it was also very controversial. It would have been excellent to have transport to the Gardermoen by buses, which have a large part of the traffic today, and cars. There was no need for a railway. What we now have is a clear signal from the forest industry, in Grenland and from other parts that infrastructure in the form of pipes must be a public financing task or a part-financing task, and that it can be written off over very many years. It is a basis for jobs. I think it's something completely different. So we want a company to start planning. We're not dealing with projects today. What we're dealing with today is establishing a company that gets a share capital, and then it has to come back. That's what's being delayed in half, maybe for two years with the way the Right now is investigating and investigating and investigating.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1805	My main point attached to Mr. Carl I. Hagen's post was that the Progress Party has been one of the leading critics of the projects that have gone wrong in this house. It has also been the right hand side. Carl I. Hagen's attack point is that the projects have been too poorly prepared. You've acquired public money, and there's been a waste of public money, if I don't remember wrong expressions, related to this. Then we should also have learned from it, so that when we start projects, we will prepare them in such a way that we have the highest degree of certainty that these projects are well thought out financially. That's what this is all about. And it's going to be useful in terms of infrastructure as well. There is no disagreement that we are going to spend money on infrastructure for gas. There's actually a consensus in this room. The point is, how are we going to do that? How is it to be carried out? Who's gonna be in on this? What projects should we talk about, so that we have the greatest degree – most importantly, I stress – of the likelihood that the project will go into a jump? That would be the most sensible thing, precisely because it is an industry that should be involved in this. They also have requirements for predictability in this area. My main point relating to Carl I. Hagen's posts is simply the point that it has to be in this house that you don't spend money and make projects, sneak things up, for which taxpayers in this country will pay for the next moment. I initially thought that the Progress Party, as a party against taxes and taxes, had agreed. But I'm recording that the party has abandoned its policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27.ana.ud1262e1814	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 3. The announcement now interrupts its negotiations, and a new meeting is scheduled to be held at 9 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2442]]
