ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10-2.ana.ud2498e30	The Progress Party looks very seriously at the negative developments in the Norwegian labour market. We will strive to lead the fight against the ever-increasing unemployment. Working for everyone in this country will be a very high priority for the Progress Party in the time to come. The Progress Party will therefore have a strong commitment and take initiatives to reduce the negative developments we have had in the Norwegian labour market over the last one to two years. The Progress Party will focus a lot of its efforts on promoting more concrete proposals for measures that can help create more jobs in Norway, thereby improving the opportunities for new and positive developments in the Norwegian labour market. The world economy is currently characterised by low economic activity, as is the case with Norway. However, we can nevertheless implement several national measures to correct some of the adverse effects on Norwegian industry and the Norwegian labour market due to the international recession. In all countries, there is leave. In this way, any government on this land can be criticised for the lack of action against unemployment. However, if unemployment is to be brought down in Norway, new competitive and valuable jobs must be created in our country in the first place. And we can do that if we want. In Norway, there are today more than 100,000 unemployed, but there are not nearly 100 000 unemployed. This means that we need to focus on an active industrial policy and have far greater political ambitions for an expansive economic development – increasing productivity, increasing economic growth and a new economic progress for its businesses and businesses. The Progress Party will claim that today's economic policy has failed. You tie and save the nation to the poor and think it will create economic growth to tighten on all sides. As a nation, Norway needs to use the enormous economic potential of oil revenues to increase investment in business, increase the efficiency of its infrastructure and improve productivity in the public and private sectors. Economic growth ambitions and a more entrepreneurial policy mean much more to reduce unemployment than all the world's labour market measures, social security benefits or strengthening the number of employees in the Aetat, as the Labour Party and the SV so misunderstood believe so strongly. Getting unemployment down is about getting more speed on the Norwegian economy by stimulating, among other things. increasing demand and productivity, increasing business investment, putting business policy on the agenda properly and creating new optimism, stimulating private consumption and providing significant tax relief to both business and private consumers. In fact, there is a great deal that can be done nationally to increase employment, but today's debate has shown that all parties, except the Progress Party, lack political will. One is stopped by the rule of action and a one-sided focus on budgetary rigour. This is fatal and will lead to increasing unemployment and job losses in Norway for several years to come. Nevertheless, the Progress Party supports this boisterous wound-plastering, as the measures we are currently taking in this matter represent, for these measures are of no particular structural importance and are therefore only short-term measures of a minor nature. Nevertheless, the measures adopted today will be of some help in the current situation, and therefore, of course, the Progress Party will be in the party proposed by the government and the SV in this context. However, the policy of all the other parties in this Chamber will certainly lead the country into a long period of unemployment, if you do not listen to the proposals put forward by the Progress Party in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10-2.ana.ud2498e45	Yesterday, at the Conference of Rapporteurs of the Municipalities of the Federal Republic of Germany, Managing Director Finn Bergesen in the NHO launched a panel debate. One of the things he said was that the main demand for business was lower prices. The high krone price has worsened the competitive situation of the competitive industry and business by 10 p.m., even after the interest rate has fallen by 1.5 p.m., and even after we have received a lower krone price. And he said that no business can handle this, and that this will lead to bankruptcy, to the loss of businesses and to the loss of jobs. I am therefore pleased that the Government's main strategy against unemployment has just been to re-establish the strength of business and to ensure new growth in employment, and to reduce long-term unemployment, through a tight fiscal regime. It would be much more popular to spend a lot of money, but it would be short-term. The government’s policy will facilitate lower interest rates, so that the continued strong exchange rate is reversed and the profitability of competitive business is improved. Bergesen pointed out that even with a zero settlement, the salary increase this year would be 4-5 pst, while it was expected that competitors out there would have an increase of 3.5 pst. or less. So, despite a zero settlement, we would still lose 1.5-1 pst. in relation to competitors. It is therefore important that the Government has cooperated with the parties in terms of income policy. This was also some business, and Bergesen, wanted to, because this would lead to a lower interest rate, so we could get a reduced rate of interest. As stated by the State Council, Norman, not only today but also in the past, concerns increased unemployment. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, and in the opinion of the Government, it is wasted with resources to let people go unemployed. It is serious for the individual affected by unemployment, and it is particularly serious for those affected by long-term unemployment. That's why these have just been the government's priority. It's important that we try to curb long-term unemployment. When the government submitted the budget, it was said that it would follow developments closely. So you've been criticised because you haven't suggested anything yet last fall. But we've followed closely. The government has delivered – the promised to come back. And it came back. There has been a serious development, and I am very pleased that, in addition to what the Government has proposed, it is a majority to step up with another 2,500 action places. It is of great importance that unemployed people are activated and qualified for job vacancies, and that the supply of labour is maintained pending increased demand. Composition of the vacancy, including, inter alia: an increase in the number of persons coming from industry suggests a wide range of labour market measures. In view of the situation in the various local labour markets, Aetat’s task will be to assess the final composition of labour market measures. In line with the current guidelines on the adoption of labour market measures, long-term unemployed young people and immigrants will continue to be given priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10-2.ana.ud2498e60	The working party is deeply concerned about the negative developments in unemployment. Work for all is the most important policy objective we can set, both because it is essential for the welfare of the individual and because it is essential for the well-being of society. Therefore, it is worrying that unemployment has increased by about 50 pst. since the acquisition of the Bondevik II Government and the average increase in unemployment of about 70 persons per year. the day of that period. I am pleased with the emphasis that the representative of Østberg also stated that it is a crucial foundation for the Norwegian economy to pursue an economic policy that can ensure a lower interest rate and a lower exchange rate. There is broad agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties. The Workers' Party has even had a tighter financial arrangement in that it has had a somewhat tighter balance than the Government has planned. In this way, the main discussion is how to set up money use within those frameworks, and not essentially how large the frameworks are. However, we believe that, in addition to the implementation of a responsible budgetary policy, and in addition to the importance of binding income policy cooperation, three elements of a strategy against increasing unemployment and the reduction of competitive business are necessary. Firstly, a targeted policy towards sectors where Norway has a priority, for example: natural resources, knowledge or competence. There is a need for willingness to focus on long-term and systematic action in these sectors. Secondly, action is needed to increase innovation and value creation in all parts of the world of work. The aim is to ensure the development of new products and production processes and to make more efficient use of resources. Thirdly, measures in the labour market are necessary to build up the skills of the unemployed and the out of work, to further qualify them for work and to prevent them from falling out of the labour market. There is also a background for proposals by the Labour Party in the United Kingdom to tackle increasing unemployment and to strengthen competitive business. We believe that: the need for measures to safeguard the shipbuilding and workshop industries and other parts of the offshore supply industry, both in the short and longer term, to address the current problems facing the fisheries and farming industries, and to contribute to the renewal and conversion of innovation and design-driven innovation measures in the furniture industry, the need for measures to strengthen travel by increasing interest in Norway as a travel-life objective; – all these measures to create an activity and an offensive industrial policy, not just an industrial policy that indicates that tax relief solves all issues. It doesn't. At the same time, there is a need for an innovation policy with general measures to boost innovation and development in business, and for a labour market policy where we focus on several action areas, multiple workplaces in enterprise-internal training, exemptions from the rules of leave, measures to combat social dumping of foreign workers and measures to ensure youth under 25 years of age work or education. The aim of the labour market measures that we are discussing today is, of course, to qualify the unemployed for work. We have analyses that very clearly show that those who have been on measures are going to work to a greater extent than those who have not. Therefore, the Labour Party believes that it is important that the number of available labour market measures is more consistent with the number of unemployed than is the case. This is why the Labour Party is also proposing 5,000 new action sites, and we are also proposing that there be a need for more action places in enterprise-internal training. We want the industries, in cooperation with Aetat and the education system, to develop business-in-house training and labour market measures for employees in firms that have problems but are able to cope in the short term. The Labour Party has also made proposals to develop the Youth Guarantee and to ensure action against youth unemployment. We are concerned about the increasing unemployment among young people and have therefore made proposals to guarantee young people up to 25 years of age an offer of employment, education or labour market measures, so that no one goes out of work for more than six months. A more offensive industrial policy is needed, a more offensive innovation policy is needed and a more offensive labour market policy is needed. The government is too late, too weak, and relies too heavily on its tax policy as an alternative to a more offensive industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10-2.ana.ud2498e101	This case is about Aetat and labour market measures. The Labour Party has chosen to make this a general debate on unemployment, and that is a debate we would like to take. Ensuring jobs and facilitating new value creation are one of the top tasks of the Government. That is why we have focused on a responsible economic policy, which is to bring interest rates down and weaken the dollar rate. We see that the government's policy is working. It helps to strengthen the competitiveness of businesses. That is why we have implemented major tax reliefs in order to improve the framework conditions for business. That is why we have been working on income policy cooperation to achieve a moderate wage settlement. This is why there is a commitment to education and research in order to increase the competence of the labour market. For this reason, the Government and Government parties also open up cooperation with other parties in order to arrive at the relevant measures that could move in the same direction. Government policy has broad support. Last night, the Holden II Committee, the expert committee to look at the competitive business situation, presented its report. That report warns against opening the money bag and warns against ‘measures supporting individual industries and businesses’. This is a signal that both the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and SV should notice. Even LO’s Chief Economist Reegård is involved in stressing the warning against measures that support individual industries and businesses. When Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen talks about unemployment, he seems to be in a rhetorical ecstasy. With his strong criticism of the Government, it seems that he has completely forgotten the Labour Party's own policy, where the aim has been to allow the public sector to grow at the expense of the private sector and at the expense of the competitive sector. Was it not thought that this would have consequences? When Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen was Minister of Finance, interest just went up. Was it not thought that this would have consequences? When Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen was Minister of Finance, the biggest tax and tax scarfs against business since World War II were added. Was it not thought that this would have consequences? The former spokesperson of the Workers' Party, Kjell Opseth, explained the implications of this in the Newspaper on 7 October 2000. There he says: ‘When they’ – i.e. industry – ‘until those degrees fear the consequences of the new fees, there is a reason for industry to look at the possibilities of slimming the staff’. Clearly, it cannot be said that the consequences of higher taxes and taxes are the need for industry to slim down. I find it quite alarming that the Workers' Party is using a debate on unemployment to roll over the government's tax relief and tax relief. What government is it that in times of increasing unemployment would increase taxes and taxes? What would it have to do with a business that is already struggling to keep the wheels going? I must be allowed to ask: if it is the case that the Workers' Party believes that tax relief is a problem for business, what taxes are you thinking of? Was it the proposal to remove the investment tax, which is a problem for business, that it was the proposal to remove the fare, or was it the depreciation rate? What taxes is the Workers' Party going to increase in order to facilitate the business situation? Of course, the government and the government parties take responsibility for the policies we conduct. We see that it has good consequences. Increasing unemployment is a problem, but it should not be forgotten that in 1993, when the Workers' Party ruled Norway, when Gro Harlem Brundtland was prime minister, unemployment was almost twice as high. Then Gro Harlem Brundtland still owed Kåre Willoch, even though he had gone off seven years earlier. We take responsibility for the policy we conduct. We see that it has broad support in the trade unions. As I said, last night the Holden II Committee put forward a position that gives good support to the policy pursued and clear warnings to those who now want to open the money bag and go into selective support measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10-2.ana.ud2498e121	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2656]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10-2.ana.ud2498e137	First, on behalf of the rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on this matter, which has ended up in a unanimous committee position. The background to the proposal is the unfairness experienced by many when they are charged an annual fee for a vehicle stolen when the annual fee is due. Some of the vehicles that are stolen will not be able to do so, and then it will be extra unreasonable to have to pay the annual tax. This was also recorded in the Innst. S. No 255 for 2001-2002 on the revised national budget last spring, where a large majority requested that legislation be amended on this very point. The matter has also been raised several times in the Grand Duchy's Question Time, but the Minister of Finance has always referred to the work being done in the field of amending the annual tax legislation, with a view to returning to a system where there is more consistency between the time when the vehicle is registered and the time for which the annual tax is due. Document No 8:67 addresses the issue again, and there is a unanimous committee asking the Government to propose amendments to the legislation of the 2004 State Budget, which implies that the annual fee is to be paid for the time when the vehicle is properly registered. The Minister of Finance pointed out in his letter to the Committee on the matter that this could also have a positive impact in situations where the vehicle is stolen. From the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party's side, it is assumed that the new legislation is designed in such a way that it also captures situations where the vehicle has been stolen and is gone for a certain period of time. In addition, we believe that the legislation must provide for a deferred payment of the annual fee in cases where the car was stolen at the time the annual fee is due, and for the absence of an annual fee for the relevant period of the current year if the vehicle does not come to an end again. It is also assumed that the new legislation will apply for 2004. With this I recommend the Committee's setting at the warmest.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10-2.ana.ud2498e158	This matter is primarily about cars that are stolen, and where the owner is still responsible for paying the annual fee. I'm going to think that this of most people is considered completely unreasonable, and that something has to be done about it. And that's what the Storting is doing through the decision that's being made here today. But the committee goes beyond that. It points out in its observations that there are also other situations where the vehicle is not disposed of throughout the year and wants a better relationship between the time when the vehicle is disposed of and the fee to be paid. These are aspects that the Progress Party has raised several times, and we have pointed out the unfairness of a system in which this relationship is not present. Before 1978 the charge was calculated after the number of months the vehicle was registered and the Committee points out that with today's technology a similar system should be possible without a significant increase in administrative costs. In a letter dated 6 March 2003, the Minister of Finance informed that the annual fee is to be assessed both in the Directorate of Customs and Fees and in the Ministry of Finance, and that the relationship between the fee and the time the vehicle has been registered is assessed. If the suspension of the Committee is adopted, the closeness of this relationship and the manner in which the conversion is to be carried out must be assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10-2.ana.ud2498e167	As one of the proposers in Document No. 8:67 for 2002-2003 I have to say that I am relatively satisfied with the treatment of the case in Stortinget. The proposal for a decision, you, says: ‘The decision asks the Government in the 2004 budget to submit proposals for changes to the annual tax on cars, so that it becomes flexible and linked up to the time when the owner actually disposes of the vehicle.’ This would also have to include stolen vehicles. Of course, this is not the biggest case that Stortinget has had for treatment, but for those affected by their car being stolen early in the year, it feels very unfair to have to pay the full annual fee for the stolen car in addition to the annual fee for the new one that had to be obtained. Overall, almost 17 000 cars were stolen in 2002, and about 1200 was never found. That this is not a new matter for Customs, one can see one of their brochures, which refers to the usual questions they get about the annual fee. There it is asked: ‘My vehicle was stolen in the year of the tax, do I have to pay a fee?’ – Yes, all vehicles registered in the motor vehicle register per. 1 January shall be subject to a charge.’;» It is very important that these charges include: pays for owning and using an engine vehicle, in proportion to the services that you receive back. I believe that the changes that Stortinget is asking for here will be changes that the car owners are getting a lot more satisfied with than today's system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10-2.ana.ud2498e189	The decision in this case is a very good news for those car owners who are currently unfairly affected by the annual tax system. Although the annual tax is a fiscal charge, which is currently largely linked to the use of the vehicle, it is quite clear that owners of cars perceive that the charge is linked to the time when the vehicle is disposed of. The name itself, annual fee, suggests that there is a time perspective in this. The current system has a certain periodicity with either a full or a half-yearly fee, unless the vehicle is rejected before mid-March. In some cases, however, this would be unreasonable. In case of purchase of a new vehicle e.g. at the end of June, you must pay the annual fee for the whole year. If you, for example, receive a new car for Christmas at the end of December, but the annual fee must be paid for six months. The most unreasonable case is perhaps if the car is stolen at the beginning of the year, and you have to pay the full annual fee without having any pleasure of the vehicle. Document No 8:67 for 2002-2003 contains a concrete proposal related to just stolen cars and an annual fee. The specific proposal is probably not appropriate, given that it is very bureaucratic and that we have about 2.5 million taxpayers in Norway. The proposal would involve a substantial manual treatment of a number of charging requirements, a costly scheme that could in turn lead to the need to increase the fee. The Ministry of Finance, in its letter to the Finance Committee, points out that the Government is working on a change of the annual fee and that it is not recommended to the Stortinge to impose changes to the annual fee before this work is completed. It goes without saying that it would be inappropriate to make detailed decisions in the Stortingen relating to the annual fee, with the great impact this will have on both the levy collection and the fee payers, when the fee is at the same time for investigation into possible conversion. In any case, it is important that we now get an improvement in the system of annual taxes. The present system was introduced in 1978 and was then a significant simplification of a very bureaucratic system. Now is the time to use new technologies to make the scheme more accurate. I am therefore very pleased that an overall financial committee is behind a proposal which clearly indicates the timing of a tax reform that has been extended by many car owners. This will be proposed in the 2004 State Budget. At the same time, there is no unnecessary lead on the details of the case until an investigation has been carried out. In the case of the minority comment, where certain details are taken into account in relation to the new annual tax system, I am pleased that there is no majority in favour of this. There are different models of an annual charging scheme, and it would be strange to adopt details of this without having information on how to become a new system, if any.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10-2.ana.ud2498e208	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2657]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10-2.ana.ud2498e224	As in the previous case, there is a unanimous vote by the Committee on Finance. In Document No: 8:68 for 2002-2003 the exemption from the levy on non-alcoholic beverages and the levy on the packaging of beverages for cereal-based milk products is proposed. The exemption is justified by the fact that current legislation provides for such a tax exemption for milk and milk products. The proposal refers to the fact that parts of the population suffer from milk allergy and lactose intolerance and therefore cannot drink normal cows’ milk. For this group, cereal milk could be an alternative. In its assessment, the Committee points out that exemptions for certain types of products may be difficult to demarcate technically and that many exemptions often lead to further demarcation problems. From the outset, decisions on taxes on non-alcoholic beverages and on the packaging of beverages lead to difficult border crossings. Furthermore, relief from taxes and charges may be dealt with in the State budget and then in a relevant context with the other revenue and expenditure of the State. However, the proposal for a tax exemption for cereals milk is expected to have small proceeds. The Committee concludes that milk allergy sufferers should also be able to obtain a milk product without being subject to a levy in addition to that applicable to cows’ milk and therefore proposes that cereal-based and soya-based milk products be exempted from the levy on non-alcoholic beverages and the basic charge on the packaging of beverages, and calls for a proposal to be promoted in the revised national budget. I therefore recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10-2.ana.ud2498e245	It is gratifying that in this case there is an overall committee that goes in for them to approx. 20 pst. of the population suffering from either milk allergy or lactose intolerance shall receive their milk substitutes free of charge, in the same way as those of us who can drink normal milk. This should be obvious. It is therefore inconvenient to read the letter from the Ministry of Finance of 7 March 2003. The Customs and Tax Directorate has not recommended a derogation because it is difficult to technically demarcate the products, and they also claim, with reference to the SNT, that children over three years of age and adults have a small direct need for replacement products for milk. The point is not whether milk replacers are necessary to survive; the point is non-discrimination for people with a particular problem. Milk is used in and together with so many foods that it obviously has to be a real problem to do without. The replacement products are, in principle, much more expensive than normal milk, and the levy must therefore feel extra unreasonable. I am pleased that a joint committee here states that the task of the Storting is not to make life the easiest possible for the bureaucrats in the Customs and Charges Directorate, but is willing to introduce a clearly fair system, despite the objections.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10-2.ana.ud2498e256	I am also pleased that a Joint Financial Committee has joined in the proposal to ask the Government to come back to the revised national budget with a proposal to exempt cereal-based milk products from these fees, although it is just enough, as the representative Monsen had in mind, that certain counter-parties have come in a letter from the Minister of Finance. Normal milk is exempt from these two fees, and it is clearly motivated by the fact that milk is a useful food. It contains some nutrients and vitamins that most people think are useful, and there's no fundamental difference between normal milk and cereal-based milk. Nor should one ignore that when milk is free of charge, it may be a little motivated to help the farmer reach a larger market with his milk product. It is also a nutritional aspect of this product. As the value-added programme for agriculture was designed in time, it was designed to stimulate a little more processing of Norwegian-produced raw materials. This project of developing cereal-based milk has just received support through the value creation programme. We are now desperately looking for new business development at these times. In this area, extensive preparatory work has been carried out on large market surveys. There's been an enormous amount of research to get to this product. So in addition to what's said, I'll just add that from a nutritional point of view, it's also very good that one has the ability to remove this bottleneck so that the production and the sale of this will be successful.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10-2.ana.ud2498e263	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2657]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10-2.ana.ud2498e271	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10-2.ana.ud2498e278	During the debate, Per Ove Width has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a case to the Storting on the work of computer systems for economic and logistical management in Defence, including total cost estimates of the Program Golf and an overview of the expected gains that can be achieved through the existing plans. The majority further requests the Government to present the alternative solutions that have been assessed, the options available for re-use of existing systems, and their profit and cost estimates.’;» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10-2.ana.ud2498e303	During the debate, Mr Bjørklund put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up clearer guidelines for Norwegian participation in international military operations, with a view to strengthening our obligations under international law in situations where Norwegian soldiers are placed under the command of another country, or acting in an internationally constituted force.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10-2.ana.ud2498e341	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10-2.ana.ud2498e351	During the debate Sigvald Opppøen Hansen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, and there will be a vote first on this proposal, which reads: ‘The 2003 budget shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10-2.ana.ud2498e633	There is no record.
