ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e31	This is a good day for SV. We are legislating Document No. 8 on alternative ways to letter. It is important for those students who are struggling to reach the letter within the 2+2 model. In addition to lawmaking, we clarify the county's responsibilities. We underline that the county council is also responsible for these students who need a learning contract, i.e. those who are directly educated after completion of primary school. We stress that it is the county municipality that is to be responsible for the theory piece on the basic course and for the VK I. So we say that for this part of the training, too, the companies will be a good learning venue. It is important to have this said and to stress the responsibility of the county council precisely because the companies can refuse if they fear to remain in total responsibility. Now we strongly stress that the county council is responsible for this piece, and they cannot push it away. That is why the comments we have are also important in this regard. I think this is going to be a good provision – I'm sure there will be a good provision for those students who need this kind of training, that is. to see the relationship between practice and theory in a different way from what one does within the 2+2 model. The best bulwark against private schools is a good public school. The quality of public schools depends on several factors. We want increased diversity, we want increased local involvement, we want greater local freedom both in organization and organization, and we also strongly stress the individual curriculum. Individual students are entitled to adapted training with individual curricula. It's important to be told. The class division that we're now removing is in many ways a symbol in the traditional way of thinking about learning. That's something we've come from the academic tradition – the academic lecture tradition. It's important that we remove this symbol if we want to get to new learning venues, new learning modes and new ways to organize the learning work. Thus, one can no longer cover behind this symbol as a class division number, a symbol of a class organisation. We have said and stressed very strongly that the students should belong to a basic group. They should have local membership of something. They are to be socialised into a group – it is important. And we call it the "base group" to also stress that one special teacher should have a special responsibility for the different students. While we're removing the division number, this symbol, we're able to ensure a minimum standard. I have previously praised the government parties for their participation in securing the resource framework. When we take away the division number that's been lying there as a lower limit on how much resources you can use, which might have been the only limit we've had, we say they're still going to be lying there. The same resource frameworks as a previous one, when you had the split, are to be taken into account now. It will be a great task for the Government and the state of education directors to ensure that this will not be a savings reform. I am very concerned that the Council of State takes this seriously and goes out and instructs the education directors and the county councillors that it should be a priority task – as long as this decision remains, until a new decision is taken – to ensure that this will not be a savings reform when we remove this symbol as the class division is. I expect the Council of State will get into that in its article. We also make changes to the competence requirement for principals. I am pleased with the clarification we have included in the setting, where we say that it should still be so that the principals should have formal pedagogical education, but that there can be deviations. Vice-Chancellors who lack formal education can be hired, but we strongly and very clearly stress that formal education should and should have a principal. In fact, it is important that those in charge of such an activity — the headmaster, the headmaster, are fully central to good school development — and who have this task continue to have formal educational training. But we open up so that others too can be hired.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e57	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e60	According to them, the party of progress is voting for urgent work and is holding its nose. Then it's touching to hear the total agreement between the SV and the government parties. Some people get both in bag and bag, and others get in a big bag. Representatives of many of those in, or related to, the school — teachers, parents — have been opposed to a change in the classification rules now, because one has not been clarified, among other things. the ‘pedagogical soundness’ of organisation. What the school needs at least is insecurity. This is not to be clarified until next year. So we're going to adopt something here today that we don't know the content of. Is SV only concerned with resources and not quality and educational content before changes are made? Does SV really mean that they've got bags and bags in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e67	Compared to document No The 8 that we presented earlier, which was voted down here in the hall, we've got in the bag and bag. We've had greater local freedom, and we've secured the resources. That was the basis for our proposal. Of course, the level should have been higher. The safety system should have been much higher. That's what we should want. But we're secure today's level. I therefore believe that we have got in bag and bag. I am not so optimistic that I believe that we who are central are able to establish rules for what is educationally sound. I am quite impressed by those who sit here in the Stortinget and think that they can say what is educationally sound. It's the individual school that's capable of doing that. Neither the representative Bjørnstad nor I am able to do so. Now we've said that schools get the freedom to organize this as they please. Not least, creating new learning venues is extremely important so that we can develop an exciting and diverse school. That's our goal. The schools themselves are the best ones to define what is educationally sound. We're going to set certain goals, but the schools are the best ones to do that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e74	I wasn't going to take a line on the representative, because we agree – but that's what he said about school management, that the comment means that principals should and should have formal competence. I hope the representative Reikvam agrees with me that it is to draw our common remark a little far. We're saying it's important to have formal pedagogical competence, but we're opening up so that others can be added as principals. Isn't it going a little far to say here that we have said that the principals should have formal pedagogical competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e81	I tried in my post to stress that we have opened the way for other people who lack formal education to be hired. It was part of my post. It's possible that I was too bombastic, as we've opened up alternatives, i.e. for those who do not have formal education. But at the outset, we stress that formal education is important, while at the same time opening up the possibility of recruiting others who lack it. The fact that SV and government parties are ‘roving in agreement’ does not in itself have to be wrong if we have a common goal of creating a good school, a school of good quality, a school of diversity. There I actually think that at least parts of the government parties and SV have a common goal. That we're able to figure out some of the formulations that everyone deserves, I actually see as an advantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e88	First a small side run, in the sense that we have all certainly been invited to class parties and anniversary parties in the past. After today I understand that we are being invited to basic group parties! To Rolf Rikvam: The pedagogical content and the safest should reach all schools and be treated there as if we should have no idea about it. Then I have to ask: why is it the government parties and the SV themselves that stress that it is important that these concepts should be defined, elaborated and clarified and that the department be asked to deal with this in the communication to the Stortinge in connection with the follow-up to the setting up of the Quality Committee? I assume that Rolf Rikvam asks the department to present to Stortinget matters that Stortinget would like to have an opinion on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e95	To maintain the class concept in order to be able to hold a party in the future, I would seem quite strange. What we really call it should be reasonably uninteresting. What's my point is that each student should belong to a group, feel social belonging to a certain number of fellow students. I have registered that the Quality Committee has submitted a setting. We are in the situation that we have pushed that setting in this area, so here the Storting has done a good job already, as we have seen. They propose twelve basic groups. If this is a detail that we're going to say something exact about, I don't know, but social belonging is the important thing. As regards pedagogical soundness, environmental safety, etc., it is clear that we need to set targets. We have to say that the students have to have individualised training plans and that this should be mandatory for all schools. But that we here at Stortinget should be able to sit down and define in detail what is in «pedagogically sound», I expect that no one in this room expects us to be able to do. So much recognition I hope that there are among us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e104	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e107	Today's society is changing rapidly. New technologies and the media are constantly feeding us with new impulses and new information. In the middle of this is the school and has to be an institution that will teach our children and young people the best possible way about the world we live in. The school shall keep up-to-date and help our children understand and give them the necessary knowledge and ability to master. This places great demands on both flexibility and adaptability. As politicians, therefore, we have an important task constantly to make sure that the different agreements and rules we adopt do not stand in the way of the school adapting to a new situation. The Christian People's Party believes it is vital that the education policy we pursue is dynamic. The government is running such a policy. Should municipalities and county councils be able to take responsibility for getting the best possible school, they must also have the opportunity to choose to work in new ways themselves. Today, laws, curricula and regulations, as well as employment contracts, the boundaries of organisation and working methods, are laid down. This may be an obstacle to developing the quality of training. At the same time, there are already many municipalities and county councils that have applied for and received permission to make attempts to derogate from law, regulation or agreement. What diversity this gives, believe the Christian People's Party is positive, and we will therefore give even more of this opportunity. The bill we are discussing today is intended to give greater local freedom of action in school. This is a pedagogical reform that will give individual schools greater opportunity to find the best solutions for their students. The Christian People's Party will develop the local school. This means giving the school more educational space to develop their own projects and ideas and different ways of organising schoolwork. The Christian People's Party wants schools to become conscious and clear about their peculiarity and their societal role. We want to know the framework, simple central rules, more flexibility and extended scope for action on local diversity. We want to look at established systems of new glasses and correct the course when good reasons warrant it. I think that's everyone's starting point now when we're going to start the debate on the Quality Committee's setting. That's why we're now giving schools the opportunity to organise the student groups themselves according to their needs by removing the class division. We think the municipalities that school owners can find the best way to use the resources. This means that we will provide better opportunities for adapted training in individual schools. At the same time, we state that the groups should not be larger than that which is educationally and safetyally sound. We've asked the ministry to come back with an assessment of what this actually means. Some have claimed that by actually abolishing the class division, the municipality should be able to have many students in the group in order to employ fewer teachers. That's not right. It will not be possible to change the size of the student groups for economic reasons. School resources are ensured so that different organisation of student groups can only be made on the basis of pedagogical principles. The competence of the Vice-Chancellor will continue to be required. Formal competence is important and necessary in school management. At the same time, such formal competence must not prevent persons with useful real skills from being recruited. It should therefore be possible to employ persons with a comprehensive and good experience. The class manager rule is replaced by a rule on a contact teacher for each individual student. Each student shall be associated with a teacher or contact teacher who has a special responsibility for the practical, administrative and social educational elements related to the student. I feel that I am in line with the settings of the Quality Committee, which proposes basic groups of 12 students and a basic teacher. We believe it is important for the students, and not least for the parent-school collaboration, to have one person to deal with. It provides both security and a solid framework. Together with the SV and the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the other government parties have now contributed to facilitating greater diversity in school. That is why I am pleased with the amendments that are now being adopted. The Christian People's Party has been busy giving greater room for action to the individual school. We are now following this up, including with concrete measures. We are ensuring a reform that is not austerity reform, but a pedagogical reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e125	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e128	The working party believes that we should have waited and also addressed this question of classification in connection with the follow-up of the Quality Committee. My opinion has only been reinforced after the majority position we have on the table today, because some questions related to this are being postponed, some are being asked for further assessments and follow-up, and it creates uncertainty. Why has it been so important for the Christian People's Party to press forward a change precisely on this question before one has received an answer to the ambiguities of the government parties themselves asking for in the present position? We've had classes for so long that one year from or to impossible can be the important thing. So two simple questions about content: is basic group really a smaller class? What is the difference between a class manager and a contact teacher, if any?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e137	The basic groups ensure the social unit of the students. There will be a firm framework and the basic groups will be led by a teacher, a contact teacher or a student contact that takes responsibility for home-school cooperation, social educational work, etc. But this contact teacher does not have sole responsibility for the teaching of these groups. That is what is the important difference in relation to the classic class manager who has been responsible for many subjects of general learning and who has had their teaching. It is already much more flexible there, but at least more people are responsible for the training than only those who are permanent teachers. It has been important for the Christian People's Party to secure the resources when we remove this. Here I think we have had good and constructive cooperation in the dialogue with SV, so we are pleased with the decision that the Stortinget now takes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e144	I have great confidence in local politicians. I think they're able to get an even stronger commitment to their school than anyone in this room can to a school out in a municipality. I think most of us should admit it. Nevertheless, many of them are in a situation where they are pressured to cut within the public sector. We are the ones who put the framework for them, which means they have to cut within the public sector. I don't think there's a single local politician who thinks it's a very good thing to start cutting school budgets. But they can feel that they're being pressured to do it. This is not a savings reform, but it is clear that if we had removed the split without adding anything else – at least clearly from my point of view – it would have been easier for local politicians, a few almost in despair to go into education and school. My question to Arne Lyngstad is: Does he agree that in many ways the compromise reached with SV has improved to ensure the resource framework, rather than simply removing the split figure without adding that security?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e151	I think today's decision makes sense to ensure that resources are maintained. I also think there is a clear signal to school owners about the supervisory tasks to be done. But there has been no intention on the part of the Government to remove resources from the school sector. If the representative Reikvam thought that was what was in the proposition, he would have misunderstood. But it gives an extra control signal for the supervision. Then it is quite right that the representative, Mr Reikvam, points out that the municipalities have a challenge. That is why we need to improve the local economy, and I believe that the municipal structure proposed by the Government for the next year is a good contribution on that path. But then this room has a responsibility to create realistic expectations in the population about what the public sector can do about tasks. Here I think SV can also contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e158	It was surprising that there was a line left over. Then I would like to use the opportunity to follow up the last question from the representative of Rikvam. It is then obvious that the Clemet Council creates the impression that resources are abundant in Norwegian schools. In view of this, it is close to believing that the proposal that came from the Government to remove the class divisions was just a direct grab to be able to allocate slightly smaller resources to the schools. I'm glad that a number here makes it clear, as it is now done, that removing the class divisions will not be used to reduce resources. But I expect Lyngstad to be able to answer confirm that he also understands that someone can think of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e165	I don't think it's written in big papers that from the government's side this is austerity reform. It does not appear in the documents submitted. When you hear something, you may hear what you want to hear. My answer is that we have a common task of not imposing more tasks on the local government sector than that it has the resources to carry out those tasks. That's the challenge of this hall. It is important to remember when all specialist committees are dealing with their areas, and it is also important to be able to have an overall perspective on the sector. The Christian People's Party will fight for the municipal sector to have enough resources to do the tasks it has. Today there's a gap between tasks and resources, and we have to gradually close that gap. That's the challenge we're facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e172	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e175	The center party thinks that the school should help the students to develop abilities and imagination and give personal growth through a lack of community. Anyone who has had a minimum amount of insight into the situation of an adult who wears out on their own weekdays, anyone who listens to a youth who is not safe on their own platform, knows what the school has to do to ensure that each individual student is given the opportunity to see others and to see for himself. Unfortunately, there is an increasing number of children and young people who do not feel able to meet their needs for adult contact. The center party made the choice that there should be more adults in the school. We want fewer, no more elephants in classes. We want a strong strength, not a weakening of the resources of the school. We focus on the teacher as a fixed, safe point in an too many changing beings, and we want student groups where teachers can do that task. We like to open up to greater local freedom of action. We have no doubt that the good solutions often become available locally in the individual school and municipality. We are still deeply disunity in the government's bit-by-bit policy for a different school than the one we think is good. The centre party is deeply disunited in the fragmentation of many local environments The government now in layers with the Progress Party has opened up for in the new Refreshulelova. We disagree on the focus on competition between the schools in order to get a better school. We probably feel that from the Right's side there is sometimes a representation of the Norwegian learning ability as an inexplicable group of money sluices who do not deliver results. We know that there is a lot of great development work done by conscientious, responsible and professional teachers, and we are not always familiar with the presentations in the media and from the political point of view, which should know better. The proposal to remove the categorisation rule did not weight an infinite enthusiasm in the Centre Party. Actually, we don't think removing the expression "class" and the expression "class controller" in itself gives a better school. We know that it means identity and affiliation to be able to tell about "my class manager" and "my class". But as this has now signed up in the committee, first with an own decision that says that the split number should not be used as a saving measure, and secondly with a note that underlines that the schools that want it can continue with the same things as today, we still agree with this change. Then we will secure the elephants and parents participation. It also appears in an own decision. Being a principal is, in the opinion of the Center Party, to hold a very special leadership position. We think it is inappropriate not to require formal pedagogical competence. Of course, a Vice-Chancellor shall have administrative competence and competence in relation to staffing responsibilities, but shall also, in many cases, facilitate pedagogical work. We have our own comment on that very topic, and in that context, I have to be allowed to correct the comment. We're going to vote against the third paragraph of Section 9. So two themes finally. The right to training in objectives other than those agreed by the municipalities is important for the Centre Party. It's stuck. It is clear from § 2-5, and we are completely incomprehensible that the Workers' Party in its remark finds reason to doubt that. Then we are pleased with what is now being proposed when it comes to the organisation of training in vocational education and training. There is a follow-up to previous decisions in Stortinget, and we fully support a statutory right to take a full or a large part of the training in the company. We think it means a lot too much the ability to get more adapted training for those who want vocational education.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e190	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e193	There are some unnatural constellations here that make you surprised when you have the opportunity to take a line at the Center Party. I would like to ask if what the Central Party and also a majority say is not clarified, the term ‘pedagogically sound’, which has been emphasized as an important argument by those who have said that we should have waited for the quality committee to be set up. I see it as the setting from the Quality Committee, among other things. the question of the size of groups, just underlines why we should have actually seen this in context. I would like to hear if the representative Kleppa would like to have a view of what is ‘pedagogically sound’, when this comes back as a follow-up to the Quality Committee. I understood the former representative Rikvam, who is involved in the same remarks and the same decision as the Central Party, who really just wanted to have a goal, and I perceived a pedagogically sound goal. But we need to have some more meat on our legs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e203	I thank you for the ability to clarify a point in my post that went a little quickly within my 5 minutes, just what Vidar Bjørnstad is now asking questions about, and that for us is very important, what we're finally going to do when it comes to maturity. For the Center Party, it's a goal of what we're into today, to secure a larger wax density in the school. We record with great joy that the Quality Selection then suggests basic groups of twelve elephants. We thought it was a very good follow-up of something that, in the proposition, appears to be very unclear, simply the expression ‘pedagogically sound’. But – since I have 6 seconds left – it is clear that we have to work together to strengthen the access to the school beyond that as for example. Now located in the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e208	I had basically been comfortable, because if there is not the same touching agreement between the government parties and the central party as with SV, it is, after all, all agreement. But in my comfortable sitting position, I thought that the representative Meltveit Kleppa said that from the Right it was claimed that the teachers were inflexible, money-smelling people – I don't even know if it was the word human being that was used. I assume that the representative Meltveit Kleppa agrees that there is nothing said from the Right team. In this case, it must be her interpretation of what she might have heard. I am a teacher myself, and I would have great problems defending a party that thinks I am an invincible, lucrative human being. I feel that there must be a relatively free interpretation from the representative, Kleppa, and I would like to have confirmed that it is her interpretation of what she should have heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e213	It's true that I have no direct quote with me here. But I want to ask a counter-question: what is the impression that people are left with when it is later said that Norway uses difficult resources in the school without being given the equivalent again, and when it is accepted by the government without counter-estimation that more than half of the municipalities may have to cut into something as important as the school supply? So it's like this, it's been repeated lately, that the municipality that's now running from the government is being produced as being almost a lift for the local government sector. That's not the case. This means that the Right represents a school where less money is to be spent.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e218	The Left Party and the Central Party have often felt that we have been on the same team in terms of local solutions and belief in local elected representatives. But now I'm really not sure, because now there's a lot of old-fashioned socialism that comes out when you talk about local maritime governance. Does the Central Party really believe that local elected and local teachers want bad principals without professional competence who are not good at being bosses? Does the Central Party really believe that local elected representatives want to have the lowest possible offer? There won't necessarily be any more money if you make the central rules here in the house, that's the money it's actually talking about. But I have a little more faith in the local populace. Has the Central Party lost all the faith they have previously had, all the confidence they have previously had, in local elected and local solutions, and that teachers locally are able to find good bosses together with the local elected representatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e223	It's probably true that the Center Party and the Left are united on important issues of education. After listening to Trine Skei Grande's posts about independent schools, I would say that there are some fundamental differences. Among other things, it was claimed that for the Left it was important to put this law in place in order to put down some public crossbows. It takes the Center Party very far away from it. We have faith in the local environment of the individual school. We believe in the ratings of the local populace, but we also believe that the best solution for the school is to have principals who, in addition to other education, have pedagogical competence. We have good experience with that, and we see no need to change it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e230	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e233	I'm not going to spend my time at the representative Meltveit Kleppa's ability to listen. It's never been the intention of the Left to use the law of high school to drop out of primary schools, rather on the contrary, if you go back to what I said. So to today's theme: I think this is a very important day. In fact, it is a more important day than when we were engaged in the law of free school, when everyone claimed that it was the world's most important day, because this concerns more. This is talk of new thinking and breaking up with some of the old structures that we've had since the boys made school in Athens, compared to thinking about other ways of working. I'm really glad that SV is on the team, because with that we've managed to make an alliance between the parties that actually think new, that are actually willing to take inward that society is changing, and that we have to change the school once all the other factors in the school have changed. For me, this is a reform where we show that we have faith in the teachers. We have confidence in the local people, and we have confidence that the teachers are able to find the good arrangements that fit well around the children. Removing the class division and focusing a lot more on adapted training, I think maybe the most important reform that is needed to think about new things in school. I think it is important to keep the principles of belonging at home – that is, you belong in a group, and there are some adults you belong to. I guess it's important to mention in this context that the Sample Committee has an incredibly exciting focus on this in its report. It is very exciting what they have to say about adapted training and special training, which I think can open up some debates on finding solutions that are more adapted to children and not adapted to bureaucracy. Today we have a system around children that needs extra help, where it only focuses on the problems of the children. In all the processes, it focuses on what they can't, and not what they can. We use all our professionals to process paper, and then we use the money to hire assistants without vocational training to work with the children who have problems. I think breaking with any of these structures might be the most important thing. The lifting of the class division also opens up to break up the fact that you're going to go along with the same all the time regardless of the subject and the class coal. One can imagine that one starts in a class when one is six, and then ten years goes with the same crowd. Then you can imagine how you become a human being if you go for ten years in a group of some and twenty where you're always dumbest -- in every context, you're always the dumbest. Or you could imagine how a human being becomes when one goes into the same group for ten years, from one is six to one is 16, and one is always funny. Think of getting such a person into his workplace, one that's always been funky in class, in all the subjects all the time. I think that in order to be whole people, all kids need to experience that they might be the one who can at least and the one who can most in some context. So there's a lot of fear here -- at least according to the tabloids -- to get big classes with 60 students and like that. I don't think this is going to be any revolution very fast. The reason why this isn't going to be a revolution very fast is the school builders. Our school buildings have very clear limitations on how to organise classwork. And the fact that our school builders can't be revolutionized in a short time, doesn't make this revolution overnight either. It's just rich schools that can invest a lot, that could experience having a class of 60 students for a few hours, because they actually have room to have 60 students for a few hours. So a little comment in the end about the SFO clean-up. I believe that the old SFO regulation we had was a typical example of the nightly majority getting here at the house in relation to the complex legislation on where the plastic, where the rent and where the assistant are to be booked. There is also a consequence of other decisions here, but I think that the SFO decision that is now on the table, in fact, seafaring is quite important in order to clear up a code that is completely impossible to enforce, at least in the right way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e248	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e251	I think the cigaring is getting a little high when the representative Skei Grande is quite boldly speaking on behalf of the alliance of the parties that are thinking new. Then I think we should stop for a little while. And then we'll look after it. I would then say in the same spirit that it is the same parties that live by the principle fast and wrong. So I'm going to ask the representative Skei Grande: what was the problem with the Left being able to join in and wait for the quality committee proposal, which we've been in for several times, which is so good, which is so great? When the Sägnen Committee now presents its own, why couldn't the Left be with the Workers' Party and say, 'We want to see everything in its entirety, we want to have a connection with school policy?'
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e256	I can reassure the representative that I don't smoke cigars. I wonder a little bit, and ask questions back: How slow should we go forward then? How long do we have to wait? The Workers' Party has a note in this case that nothing is to be adopted before all is to be adopted at the same time. There's a cry in school after getting to this. There's so many attempts at this. I meet so many teachers every day who talk about all the rules that make it hard to think new and difficult to try new things. We know how many schools have applied for attempts to break this very thing, and they must then avoid running through the entire trial system with applications and good reasons every time, when we see that teachers locally develop better pedagogical practices when they get freedom. I think the Search Committee has a lot of exciting things, but it also has a lot of big things to discuss. If we're going to wait for everything, I think the teachers who see that they're sticking their heads in an old system are pretty obvious if we're not willing to give them that freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e265	Step Skei Grande does not expect revolution. I do. I expect that in many schools there will be revolution in the years to come – perhaps not tomorrow and overnight, and perhaps not just because of this case. But I'll probably stress that there are many places and many schools where there would be good with a revolution, with changes, in relation to this by creating new learning environments, new learning venues and breaking up patterns. Then I want to say to Trine Skei Grande, who used the school buildings as an argument against change in the organization: I've seen many schools that are very traditional, with classrooms in a row and row along the halls. In those schools, a revolution has taken place. This appeal can go to other schools, that even if you have a traditional school building, you can make good changes where a greater degree of adaptability to the needs of the students is possible. So I'm waiting for revolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e273	As a member of a liberal and radical party, I would also like to see revolutions take place in such areas. I think it's about to happen a revolution in schools, but it's about to go this house by. Because teachers locally take things up, bring things out and try things out that are about to happen a local revolution in the Norwegian school that we haven't addressed. And we're actually going to hang out a little bit later with the decision we're making today. My point was relative to some tabloid statement that now all the classes were going to be 60 students. I don't think so. I think it's more likely that you divide the classrooms into two, than you move them all down into the gym all the time. As a former teacher in high school, I know that when a history teacher has the lecture piece, a guy likes to have 60 students, or one can have 100. But when you have group work, it's a huge problem to have 28. So thinking new about breaking down such structures, I think it's very important to think about new working methods. But I don't think there's any big threat that we're going to see big halls with students in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e280	I'm not only concerned with having the goal of thinking new, but also that the result of the thoughts is good. In view of the fact that we were called out to change the class division rule, I have not understood it this way. It is well possible that some have been in contact with individuals around, but the representatives of the large organisations, for example, represent them. The parents and teachers have not refused to decide on a possible change, but they say: Why can we not get answers to some of the questions that the government parties themselves ask to their own government, which they cannot answer today? So there's an uncertainty out there. If there is something the school needs least, there is uncertainty – uncertainty about what we are now actually adopting. And as I've said, the class we've had for so many years that one year from or to the impossible can play any role. But it plays a major role for all those who represent the actors in school everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e285	My problem is that I do not see what the Workers' Party has thought of new thoughts. I don't see what the Labour Party wants, except to hold on to what is. Organisations may not have been in the front line. Suffering if the organisations have not been sceptical about this initially, they have not been in the front to make changes. But that front is found in the number of exemption applications from each school. It's the teachers who feel like they're meeting the wall when they're going to think in new ways, it's the teachers who want to work in other ways that we're obliged to follow. I think that when the Workers' Party is talking about everything being done at the same time, the workers' party reforms that this room has pushed down the top of the school system without it being prepared, perhaps not exactly marked by greater preparation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e290	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e293	The evaluation of Reform 97 shows that the school is generally well reported by students, parents and teachers. Furthermore, the evaluation shows that there are differences between classes and between schools as to how the curriculum is practised and how the school environment works. Some of these explain the differences in the professional results of the students. Our challenge is how to ensure good quality in school at all times. Finally, we received an evaluation that gave us information on the content of the school, which is a basis for developing good and targeted measures to improve the quality of the school. Experimental work at school is important for the development of quality, especially in the context of new teaching methods. The Committee's consideration of proposals for changes to the Training Act shows that the starting points of the lots differ in order to improve the quality of the school. The working party wants the schools that will be able to start trials. It is important that the school has the freedom to organise education in large and small groups. Furthermore, there is agreement that this is happening and can be done today with the current training law. The classification rules are a resource protection rule and cannot be treated independently of a new school funding system. We agree that the minimum level of pedagogical hours can be used in a different way, but the Ministry's proposal to change this is not a good substitute. I have a great deal of understanding of the concerns of a number of hearing bodies that changes in the classification can lead to savings at the school's expense. Nor have alternatives been promoted to ensure adequate resources for primary schools. In addition, I believe that it is difficult to ensure these educational and social purposes that the class division represents, by replacing the class division numbers with a general requirement that the organisation should be pedagogically sound and that it should ensure the social belonging of the students. The term ‘pedagogically sound’ is too vaguely defined. In this situation, we do not want to change the classification rules. I also want to question the timing of the examination of changes to the Training Act and the proposal for a new funding scheme for private schools. Proposals for changes to legislation and management systems for initial training are now being made without considering the different measures in the context. Changes related to each other should be dealt with under one of the Storting, in particular as a follow-up to the work of the Quality Committee and the major communication on the resource situation in primary school. Therefore, the Workers' Party considers that changes to the class organisation can only be assessed when the Storting is presented with the said messages. Until that time, these members believe that the current provision on class organisation should be maintained. The public school is the pillar of our society. The changes proposed and made have major consequences and should therefore be addressed together. It's about creating an equivalent school offer for all the students. Although it appears that the school is not good enough to balance differences, it is important to focus on the fact that we are involved in creating measures that contribute to eradicating the differences. It is about having a necessary management tool, such as: evaluation, to ensure monitoring and information on school levels. However, in order to achieve these objectives, it is important that we support and implement actions at all levels. Both teacher and principal are important for school development. International research shows that the function of the principal depends on professional qualifications. The principal has a key role to play in the development of school. Therefore, we believe that it should be an indispensable requirement for the principal to have pedagogical competence and teaching experience. The school aims to equip children, young people and adults to meet the challenges of life and to master challenges in cooperation with others. At the same time, training shall create growth and opportunities for the individual student. In order to succeed, teachers need to know each child and youth and their assumptions. Each school and individual establishment shall facilitate changes not only in quantitative terms but also in terms of professional and pedagogical quality of all training provision. In order for the changes to become something more than rhetoric, a broad mobilisation of creativity, cooperation and, above all, enthusiasm for those who are going to do the job is needed. Then both teachers and principals are very central. They need to be stimulated and inspired in the work of getting a new grant for the community school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e316	Let me start by commending the committee, and especially the SV and the government parties, which seem to have had a very constructive cooperation that leads to a very good solution in my opinion. In my view, important decisions should be taken here today. They are at least important if you want to develop school. Let me just comment on the important thing. In my view, changing the classification rules is obviously sensible. Very many people claim that the classification rules we have are, in fact, the main obstacle to school development and quality development today. The committee leader said it was a reminiscence from an academic tradition. One can also say that it is a reminiscence from the industrial community and then belongs to the logic of the industrial society, and that the school should of course participate in the knowledge society. We're not doing this to establish new traditional classes that are much larger. Let's do it for other reasons. First, we do it in order to make the actual adult and teacher density visible and exploit it constructively, both for the benefit of the learning environment and for the benefit of the teachers' working environment. In addition, we do it to make it more possible to realize the vision of adapted training for all. Adapted training for all means that we need variation, diversity, inequality, differentiation and flexibility — just as the evaluation of Reform 97 points to. We also need greater flexibility in the organisation of training. We also do it to get a little bit away from the rule management of Norwegian school and more on what can be called target management, in the sense that we want to mobilise for reflection, for commitment and for the responsibility of all those responsible for school development and the best of students. And then we do it because we basically follow up on what we've already gained from experience in a number of trials around Norwegian school, including research evaluations of such experiments. What I think many of us experience when we are on school visits around the country – and Vidar Bjørnstad was probably within it – is that the biggest problem is the birthdays. There are actually quite a number of people who are reviewing and changing the organization, who say that the biggest problem is who you should invite this birthday. But it turns out that most people have been able to solve that problem too. Actually, I only hear one argument against changing the classification rules. Some fear that it will be used to save money. That, of course, is not the intention. I believe that very much also speaks against that it will happen. Let me mention some of these reasons. Firstly, the use of resources in schools around the municipalities is on average well above the quantitative requirements set by the law. It shows that municipalities focus on the discretionary requirements of the law, such as: adapted for training. Secondly, it is not such that the classification rules are simply removed. No, they are replaced by a new requirement, namely for groups which must be sound both in terms of pedagogical and safety. In my opinion, it is a stronger requirement than current rules on classification, because the student needs to be focused on, the individual student and the individual student needs to be seen, and more attention needs to be paid to content than to a little ‘negligible rules’. The requirement for identity and membership shall be met by the organisation of pupils by groups, which may often be less than the traditional class today. Thirdly, I have great confidence in local politicians. I think they have as much care for the school as we do. It's also a question of trust in them. If they are not trusted, it is likely to be revealed through the national quality assessment system we are gradually receiving, and it can push an exposure forward, possibly replacing local politicians. I note that the Central Association of the Municipalities, all parties, supports the changes in the classification rules. We also use more targeted and active supervision. In this respect, I refer to the revised national budget and can confirm to the chair of the committee that we will engage in an active dialogue with the supervisory body on this matter. All of this is now reinforced by the majority position, and I think that's good. It gives an important steering signal that I am happy to have in my back. I believe that the proposal for a decision is very clear to the department, to the supervisory authority and to the municipalities. Let me finally say a little bit about the principal's competence. There is a tendency for professional and educational groups to seek a formal monopoly in certain positions. It's very common and very common. But it is contrary to the reform of competence and our view of real competence. And it's a paradox that the education system, which is to manage systems of evidence of real competence, does not itself recognise the concept. Formal competence is no guarantee that you are suitable. Real competence can be a great resource. But the main rule will undoubtedly be that you also have a formal background. I have no reason to believe or mean anything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e342	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e345	The Ministry has stated in its proposal that the hearing bodies have provided broad support for the possibility for the county of VET to recognise all or part of vocational training within the enterprises. The proposal thus received broad support during the hearings, but some of the hearing bodies wanted other solutions. In other words, there were different opinions and many things that the Ministry and the Government have taken a decision on. My question to the Council of State is: Can the Council of State say anything about what elements have been essential for the Government to propose that the county council of vocational training should be the body to have this approval authority?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e352	Arguments can be put into the field for and against. All in all, we have found it most appropriate to propose what we are proposing, but I see that in the vote it is proposed that a few words be taken out, and that the county council – if I recall this correctly – has this responsibility. The Ministry has no problem with the county taking responsibility and therefore also deciding how this should be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e357	A guiding principle in our curricula is that teaching should be adapted to the individual student. And one of the principles is that each student should have an individual curriculum. For each student in Norwegian school, there should be a plan – what goals he should have and how he should achieve them. The evaluation of L97 shows that it's an area where we haven't quite gotten it. Such individual curricula will also identify learning strategies. In future, will the Council of State give priority to this part of the work, to the creation of individual curricula, to the development of goals and plans by the students together with the school? I think it's very important that we also get it in place -- it's in place formally, but this is going to be a reality out in schools. So, I thank the Council of State for following up on the statesmen with the fact that they are now deploying resources in the autumn, and making sure that this will not be a savings reform, as it can be if we are not active now in relation to those who are to be overseen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e366	I can confirm that we have and will have a comprehensive dialogue with the county councillors, on the one hand, and in general about school, on the other, since this is a new area of work because the education director is integrated, but also especially about this matter that we are dealing with today. Yes, adapted training is the big vision, the most important challenge in Norwegian school — reducing inequalities between students, classes and perhaps even schools. The evaluation of Reform 97 is a bit sprinkling. It's extremely demanding, and it's in many ways a vision, but what I think is very exciting when I'm around School-Norway and visiting schools that organize more flexiblely, more in line with what we're adopting here today, is that it's a clear feedback from teachers and from school leaders, from parents and students that they think they're getting better at this so that each student can realize their abilities and talents and reach out for their own resources. That must be the objective, rather than simply stating that you are following the rules and sitting in a class of 28 students, which in some cases can be completely irresponsible, because there are too many.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e376	It is just as the Council of State says that most municipalities give priority to the school far beyond what is the minimum. Nevertheless, it is a fact that one in a very large number of municipalities is forced to cut even within the school sector, and in areas where they do not want it at all, for example. in the case of the excessive closure of the fireballs carried out. One example of scarce resources is that municipalities are trying to circumvent the fourth paragraph of Section 2-5, which applies to written training on a major objective other than that agreed by municipalities. There the Workers' Party is now trying in a note to doubt that it is on the right side. I want to ask the state council to confirm that what's the change is groups instead of classes, and that the court itself stands firm. And I also hope that she can confirm that she has no plans to change that right.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e383	The last thing I can verify. You could say that a consequence of the main change we're making is that we sometimes have to change the words, from the class term to the new term. But otherwise there's no change to that rule in our proposal. As far as the local economy is concerned, it is only to recognise that it is of course difficult, and that it affects several sectors and can also affect the school at present. It is my deep hope that we can achieve a lasting and sustainable balance in the local economy. It has to happen in several ways. Everyone has to take responsibility, both in the municipalities and here in the hall. And here in the hall, I think it's essentially two things. One is the economy of the municipalities, which, of course, we influence through transfers, and the other is freedom of action. I think it's a little weird that the Center Party is always taking it up in this context. As far as I remember from the Central Party national meeting, it was later claimed that if we increased the freedom of action of the municipalities, they could save billions of dollars. Here is an example of an increase in freedom of action. That is educationally correct, and it will therefore save money and strengthen the balance of the local economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e390	When SV has expectations of doing revolution with the Right, I become insecure in my direction. The reasons given by the Government for the proposed changes are for both resource allocation and pedagogical quality reasons. It's obvious that the government argued at least that we would have released the big jumps in the resource level with, for example. new students at individual schools, so the purpose of resource saving was enough there. Now the resource issue is at risk, and the issue of pedagogically soundness is at stake. What was the intention then to press forward this matter when we have a golden opportunity perhaps already next year? I don't think it's a good reason when one gets a system change with a party that believes this is an urgent work that doesn't take care of the interests of the students and parents – as the Progress Party said earlier today – where SV has clearly agreed to a compromise in relation to having them put the resource issue at risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e399	I don't think this is pushed forward. I'm about to be in government for two years. The case has been in an entirely ordinary consultation process. There is a document in the Stortinget that I actually think is quite good, and it is now being dealt with here, as the Stortinget has decided, and it is a question that, in my opinion, is over-mature in the sense that very many people believe that this and a few other things are actually the main obstacles to school development in Norway. And now that the quality selection setting is available, you should all be calm. For Astri Sägnen said at the press conference when she presented it, that she takes note that this is adopted in the Stortingen, but that they want to go even further. Even more so, it's a little bit unclear to me, because it really seems quite similar to what the Quality Committee has proposed, and what is adopted here today. These twelve basic school students that the Quality Committee is talking about are, of course, confusingly similar to the figure that matches the actual teacher's density in Norway. There are 11-12 students per year. teachers on average in Norway. In this way, you can organise the students into such small groups. And it's also common in these schools that do this, that one teacher is responsible for maybe a maximum of 15 students – a smaller group than the usual class.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e406	Just a little comment. This is not a compromise on our part. If a reader is reading Document No. Our 8 proposal, one will see that this is really what we want: greater local freedom and securing the resources. We have received what we want in relation to Document No. Our 8 proposal. So to the Council of State: I want to stress this with individual plans. I felt that the Council of State was a little vague about this, and I figured that new ways of organizing it would make it easier to take care of the individual student and provide adapted training. And I think so, actually. So I agree with her. But my challenge was that the supervisory authorities and others become more concerned that this with individual plans is being done around the schools. For some of the findings of the evaluation of L97, this is a deficiency. And I think that we have a huge challenge in getting this done, and that the schools take it seriously -- our schools take it most seriously, for the most part, it's not that they don't take things seriously -- to establish the adapted training, with individual curricula for each individual student, where a set of learning goals and other development goals for the students. So you know what you have to reach for, and the students along with the teachers, the school and the parents are aware of what goals they're going to achieve. I think the Council of State should stress that bit a little bit more in relation to the supervisory authorities and in relation to the schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e415	Like I said, it happens in many schools. And I can say that I'd like to be more concerned about it and "stress" it more, as the representative Rikvam said. When I'm a little cautious about promising too much, it's because I'm actually not aware of how neglected this area is. I don't know how large this canvas is in relation to bleaching, so I don't want to be too sloppy about what you can do in a short time. But I'm recording that especially in these schools, it's going to happen that it's going to be more flexible. I think it's very positive, and I like to take it with me also further vis-à-vis the supervisory authorities. Then I would like to comment on the previous line, since I did not get this with «pedagogically sound». In my opinion, that is a very good concept. It's a discretionary expression, but it's not a negatively charged word for, among other things. lawyers and supervisors. It is a form of regulation that, in my opinion, is very useful in areas of life that are complex, multiplicity and where standard solutions do not work. And if there's something the evaluation of Reform 97 shows us, it's that the standard solutions don't work, because there's no way we can meet the needs of different students for different solutions. Where a discretionary decision is based, it must be specifically tested in the individual case and it is much more appropriate than simply counting students.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e424	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 993]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e442	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given after the speeches of the main speakers from each of the groups and five replies with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e451	The main themes of this suspension are proposals for a new system of funding for post-secondary schools, provisions on control and supervision of the use of grants and provisions on the collection of information. There is an overall committee that is involved in the legal obligation to participate in national tests. Both public and stand-alone schools are required to do this, and the tests are to identify the basic skills of the students. An overall committee asks the Government to provide an assessment of privacy in setting up information bases on student test results at individual level. In this context, I refer you to the comments in the setting. A majority of the Committee, all parties other than the Advance Party, is pleased that the Ministry of Education, in the proposal for a law on early childhood education, is continuing today's ban on the granting of State aid to commercial schools. It is now clarified in the law that government grants and school money are to benefit students, which prevents owners from taking dividends from schools. Registration in the Entity Register will also be required, which defines who will receive the State grant and stand as owners. The clarifications we are now making, according to the Christian People's Party's assessment, will ensure that the money is spent on the students, and will make it less interesting for large educational groups to establish post-secondary education. With regard to the selection of grant models, the Committee shares, and I expect each party to justify its position. For the Christian People's Party, we agree with the Government's proposal to maintain a state payment. We've already set up a well-functioning system for payment like this, which can easily be continued. Furthermore, this country's financial liability is visible in order to safeguard minority rights. I'm pleased that a majority agrees with the government payment. The Christian People's Party also agrees with the Government to change the grant base from a national average to a municipal grant base related to school size. This will increase non-discrimination between health schools and public schools in the context of grants. Such conversion means that the economy of primary schools will reflect the economy of municipalities and public schools. This will prevent the establishment for financial reasons or give municipalities incentives to leave schooling to independent actors. There will be differences in grants between schools, but equal treatment with local public schools will have to be crucial. During the work of the Committee, it has been difficult to find a majority for a legal transition to a municipal grant basis. However, I have noticed that both the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have such a principle, even though they want municipal payments. It should therefore be possible for these parties to support the Government's proposals subsidiaryly when their primary model is downgraded. Other things would mean the continuation of the current state-disbursement system on the basis of a national average basis. I am therefore pleased that the government parties in the debate and voting today are likely to receive subsidiary support from the Socialist Left Party to Section 6-1, which provides a municipal subsidy basis. The Christian People's Party is today co-sponsored with three new proposals. Here we ask the Government to assume that the free principle is to include independent primary schools, in the sense that self-payments are not allowed beyond defined parental limits. Furthermore, we ask the Government to assume that the changes in the grant to the individual school of the new grant scheme will be within a maximum of plus/minus 7 pst. in relation to the current system. This means that the results of the conversion to the municipality-specific grant base will be reduced, providing free schools with greater stability and predictability, while at the same time providing less incentives for the establishment of health schools in municipalities that use large financial resources in public schools. When the conversion is reduced, the need for a five-year transitional period is also reduced, and we limit it to three years. We also promote proposals that go into the discretionary room that exists in the approval of boarding schools. Here we ask the Government to place a significant emphasis on the municipality's opinion when examining applications for the establishment of fresh oils when the municipality identifies certain aspects set out in the proposal text. Furthermore, we ask the Government to develop fixed procedures for application procedures, including deadlines. There is a political disagreement about the law on free school. Most of the disagreement lies on the basis of approval. Today we are dealing with the funding system, it should be less controversial. I am pleased that the Government's proposals are supported. As regards the level of the grant itself, the differences are likely to remain there. But these are issues that belong to the budgetary procedures. In these context, the Christian People's Party will continue to work to introduce grants for capital costs and increased operating grants. I recommend this setting, and address the proposals to which the Christian People's Party is a part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e477	The representative Arne Lyngstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e482	The working party, the centre party and SV have always believed that the committee's handling of this matter has been too fast, and that the Stortinget should have put it in a broader context. The whole setting also bears the mark of this, and we see that the government parties are unable to create a majority for any model in the given setting. Although SV today announces that they support the Government's proposal, Model 3b, with government payments and a comparison basis with the school size at each school, the government parties have not been able to create a majority during the time we have worked on the matter. I believe that if we had had more time, there could have been a solid majority in this case. But I have specific questions. What does proposal No. 15 means? I want to ask why a particular model has come up today that is about a change plus/minus 7 pst. in relation to the current system. With regard to proposals Nos. 14 and 16, I see that it means much of the same thing as the Labour Party has said in the vote, and we can support the two proposals, but I would like a concrete answer as to why one comes to it in proposal No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e491	We've been dealing with primary school legislation all over. The grant chapter has also been a follow-up to this, and we have known about the Government's proposals since the end of April. We therefore believe that there has been a reasonable time to also work with the grant model. As regards proposal No: 15, I said in my post that this means that the results of the conversion to the municipal grant basis in relation to today's national average are less than if one had not placed any restrictions. For some municipalities, the differences are larger, and when you enter a plus/minus of 7 pst, there is a limited interval that the outcome of the conversion gives, so that it is closer to a national average for some municipalities than what a purely municipal grant base would mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e498	The Christian People's Party wants free schools to receive grants at the expense of the host municipality in parallel, i.e. there is a difference between health schools in neighbouring municipalities. Consequently, it will be particularly important to establish schools in those municipalities which use the most per capita. Students, that's opposite what Lyngstad thinks. The question is then: does Lyngstad recommend that e.g. the Christian free schools also establish themselves in neighbouring municipalities, so that, at their annual intake, they can lock the students into the fresh school which will receive the largest payment per year. student?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e505	The answer is no, a loud clear no. A school is supposed to work in a community, and schools have to establish themselves in the community where a person wants to work with the students. It's just the parents and the kids in the community that you're supposed to be serving. If you have a group mindset related to schooling, then André Kukkestad's question makes sense. But in the Christian People's Party, we don't think school like that. We don't want it either. We want school to come out of a commitment to educate students, and that the school has a role in its community. This must be the basis for establishing and not where one can make the most money.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e510	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e513	A study by the Swedish Ministry of Education shows that freedom of choice has its price. A report by the Swedish School Administration last night concluded that free choice of schools and larger sections of private schools lead to increased distinctions in Swedish primary schools. We have warned against this in the past. The basis for the Labour Party's position in the case today is the submission of proposals for changes to the legislation and management systems for initial training, without considering the different measures in the context. Changes in schools should be addressed in one of the Stortinges, in particular as a follow-up to work in the Quality Committee and the keynote on the resource situation in primary schools. This is not lucky for the overall development of the school, either for the private or for the public schools. We are now facing important choices in school policy. The Labour Party believes that we need to build a good public offer, and that we need to give all our children, no matter what municipality you live in, an equivalent and good offer where quality is the main goal. We share the view of a number of hearing bodies that the models of funding submitted do not provide sufficient basis for determining what constitutes the best option. The ministry's question is an expression of this. In addition, this impression is reinforced in the response from the Ministry. This brings me to the committee treatment of this setting. There has been uncertainty about individual funding proposals. We also see that model 3 is actually a model 3a and 3b, when we've seen the answer from the department. We reject all three models and want primarily the earmarked funds for private schools as a whole to be transferred to the local authorities – precisely because under the Education Act, municipalities have a responsibility to provide schools to all students in the municipality. It is important that municipalities are given real freedom here and the opportunity to see the provision of primary education in the municipalities as a whole. The working party will fight to preserve and develop the modern school. We're in a situation where over half of the country's municipalities say they want to cut the school budget. The reason for this is, among other things: poor local economy. And this isn't about trust, which we've repeatedly heard. This is not about our local politicians not being able to choose to give priority to the school. On the contrary, there are repeated examples of the municipal reality in the municipality of Norway that there is not enough resources to invest in all the tasks that you would like to have invested in. Whatever the funding model, it's a reality that the public is being drained for resources that we think should have been used in public schools. If it is that Norway is at the top of the world spending money at school, but we don't get anything left for the money, why then open up for such a release? It may seem like a strategy to cut public school. We are all concerned that our children should receive the best possible education and that the quality of school should be as good as possible. The challenge is how to ensure good quality. The evaluation of Reform 97 shows that the school is generally well reported by both students, parents and teachers. Furthermore, the evaluation shows that there are differences between classes and between schools in how the curriculum is practised and how the school environment works. Some of these explain the differences in professional outcomes for the students. Our challenge is how to ensure good quality in school at all times. Municipal governance is important. Municipalities should be given decision-making powers in relation to issues relating to the establishment of private schools. That is why we are proposing this. It is therefore amazing to see how easily SV has given up this when choosing the funding model. At the same time, SV today is in favour of full guarantee of pensions for employees in private schools, but there is not the same security for public school employees. I have also noticed that the Ministry wants to deal with any changes in the percentage of subsidies in the state budget context, and that the Ministry’s proposals for new law on private schools and amendments to it point out that the law will lead to the establishment of more private schools. Today’s challenge in public schools is not solved by spending much needed money on establishing more private schools that will compete with public schools. I address the proposals to which the Labour Party is a co-sponsor, and use the opportunity to say that we support the two proposals that I presented in the line to Arne Lyngstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e547	The representative of Karita Bekkelem Orheim has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e552	This too is a matter which, in the view of the Labour Party, should be dealt with too quickly, and this too should be pushed forward in time, we hear. It is then clear that the Workers' Party had a majority in this Chamber, and the Norwegian school had stood in check. Also now there is talk of fear that fresh schools are going to rage at the public school. The representative between Orheim used the term ‘leap’. If this is not mistrusted by local politicians, it must be absolutely mistrustful of the Norwegian public school, and distrust that Norwegian public school is of the quality and can develop the quality that we all want it to have. Is it really the case that the representative of the Bekkele between Orheim and the Workers' Party has so little confidence in the public school that they believe that in the moment parents are given a real freedom of choice to choose school, there will be a free play, and students will flow from public school to colleges?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e557	One may be tempted to take a little historical look at the reforms that have been promoted in relation to school over the last decades. If I don't remember completely wrong, it's not exactly the Right Party that has gone into the rush to bring about new reforms, either in school policy or in child and family policy. This is not a general mistrust of public schools. The situation is that this is about priorities. Had it been so that new fresh funds, new money had been added to the total pot, the situation would have been different. But what we're getting reports of from Municipality-Norway is that here's one to choose. We see that the draft budget promoted by the party to the representative is about a very strong emphasis on private schools and a reduction in the public offer. We've had that round many times in this room, and I don't see any reason to repeat this right now. But, as I said, I think the Right must go a little by itself when it comes to reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e566	The Labour Party has proposed a separate model. I have to say that this model that the Workers' Party and SV have as their starting point is quite similar to Model 1, the one that goes on non-discrimination, the municipal grant basis and municipal payment. The only difference is that this is also linked to a municipal right of approval for the colleges. This, of course, gives municipalities a different way of governing their school structure. But in a financial sense, it's pretty similar. However, I am pleased that the Workers' Party is involved in clarifying the law in relation to commercial interests. Then I want to say that the biggest obstacle to our getting a freestyle from the colleges is that we are closing away the commercial interests and the school groups. That's what's going to prevent the release. We get a little bit more schools, yes, but we don't get freeze.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e573	It is possible that the representative Arne Lyngstad is right. But I think it's also about what offer the public school can actually give, because it'll pay to set up a private school. You create a market for a private establishment if the public offer is too bad. We've seen good examples of that in relation to health care, and I think the same thing could happen if we don't invest enough resources to invest in public school. I would also like to say, in relation to the previous question and to what Arne Lyngstad now had to say, that it is actually the case that the surveys we now receive from Sweden show that free choice of schools and larger sections of private schools lead to increased distinctions in Swedish primary schools. I had hoped that Arne Lyngstad was also concerned about this. The Christian People's Party has at least before had a heart for these things. I am pleased with the tightening up that is taking place in relation to commercialization, but I had hoped that the Christian People's Party would stand a little more upright in relation to these things today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e580	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e583	The majority has recently passed the law on independent schools, the so-called law of free school. After listening to the last line change, it is tempting to say that it seemed that it was still the one to debate, not the financing of the consequences of what we have previously adopted. One of the basic principles of this law is that it is no longer necessary for the school to provide a pedagogical or life-seeking alternative in order to obtain recognition as a free school. Professional content and quality are much more emphasised in this law as a future recognition criterion. This change in law may lead to slightly greater growth in the number of fresh oils, hopefully also with slightly greater geographical spread than has so far been the case. In this case, the consequences of this are now addressed by changing the funding system towards non-principal treatment of public and independent schools. When the majority vote is adopted, we will have a funding system based on the operating costs of other schools in the municipality where the school in question is established. As a result, the channels of discussions about the injustice of the current grant system, based on differences in school structure between municipalities, could be scrapped. It is also positive that today's scheme with slightly higher grants per year. students in small schools are continued in the new funding system. In other words, the grant will be related to school size. The issue and the need for the introduction of grants which also cover the cost of capital remains. As is well known, this is a strong wish from high schools, in order to achieve real economic equality with public schools, but at the same time a financing issue which must necessarily find its solution in future budgetary discussions in the Grand Duchy. From colleges there is a strong desire that the payments of grants remain a state responsibility. This desire is being met, and as a result, current guidelines and practices in this area are being continued. It provides a good level of security for the economic foundations of schools, predictability of frameworks and conditions and reasonable planning of activities and activities in the coming school years. In the framework transfers to municipalities, a correction factor is introduced for those students who are actually in high school and who are no longer the municipality’s financial responsibility. Here it is important to be aware that in this case, the public authority, the municipality, still retains the responsibility for providing a good and satisfactory primary school offer to all students in its municipality. This implies that the municipality must have the capacity and the ability to provide education to students who, in special cases, may be exposed to the closure of health schools or for other reasons to cease. For this reason, it is also assumed that the extraction from the municipalities due to fresh oils would be somewhat less than what would have been correct on the basis of a purely mathematical model. Since the State grant also with the new system of financing will not exceed 85 pst. of the average cost of an equivalent school size in the municipality, it is still necessary for primary schools to base their full funding on school money. It is clear from the decisions taken today that the school allowance, together with the State subsidy, may not exceed the expenditure of similar public schools in the same municipality. The fear of commercialisation, maximisation of profits and the possibilities of collecting dividends by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party is not only exaggerated. With the very limited possibilities of demanding school money that will be adopted today, their argument is both dead and powerless. In recording data from schools at individual level, it is important to emphasise the need for adequate privacy from the right. The desire to collect and record identifiable individual data on learning outcomes may have a clear scientific justification and value, not least in order to provide good and reliable research-based information on what promotes quality in school and the factors that should be stimulated and reinforced in this respect. However, these positive effects of such registration must be continuously weighed against the need for privacy. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee asks the Government to provide an assessment of privacy in connection with the establishment of information bases on student test results at individual level. With Stortinget's previous treatment of the law on free schooling and with today's decision relating to the financing of the same schools, we have received a new contribution to diversity and quality assurance in the Norwegian primary school. Speaking of the discussion that took place here about the Workers' Party's financing concerns, it has been nice to record in a previous case we have dealt with, that the Workers' Party's alternative is to cut down on the funding of the colleges to transfer the money to the school leisure facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e613	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e616	It's about government payments. There will probably be a little mix-up in relation to the case of fresh oils that we discussed a short time ago. It is once again said a little high-ranking that this grant law is also based on the principle of parental rights under international conventions, and it is used as an argument for having State payments. I assume that we are following international conventions in many other areas, for example. on the rights of children, without any relation to children, shall be financed by the State. I assume that the rights of children are respected both in municipalities and county municipalities. I see that the proposal is simply a way of treating private schools in a special way, as opposed to earmarking the framework in all other areas. But I would like to hear again if you have any evidence that international conventions are broken if we just follow the old private school law.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e625	The main principle of the form of funding adopted today by the majority of the population is to base the municipal average consideration on which the grant is calculated. That is the main principle, the guiding principle, of the new grant scheme. Of course, it's in stark contrast to today's system, based on a national section. With the negative attitude and policy of the Workers' Party – to a certain extent also SV, at least in the past, I am excited about the future – with regard to granting grants to private schools and fulfilling the obligations of the Stortinget towards private schools and hospitals below, where it is continuously proposed to reduce the grant to these schools, it must be ensured that the majority of the population decides that it is still a State responsibility to pay the necessary grants to these schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e632	I would like to congratulate Mr Voie on an excellent speech. However, an important campaign for the Right has been that the money should follow the student – a price. Now a Right-State Council has raised a case that the money should not follow the student, but the host municipality. I've noticed the principal quantum leap. What's causing this hunch? And when did it happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e640	You might have to be a member of the Progress Party to see that there is some quantum leap in political positions on the Right side. It is an equally important right-wing principle that we should have equal treatment. And as much equal treatment as possible for students is also a prerequisite for the principles of funding that are being adopted today. That's why we put in a municipal average, a municipal average, in terms of equal treatment for students, whether they go to a free school or a public municipal school. The fact that the money is to follow the student as a piece of price finance to the extent that the Progress Party is in favour has never been official Right-wing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e645	If I understood correctly, there was a debate here on the question of whether it is in the agreement with international conventions to pay a surcharge from the municipality instead of from the state. I assume that the three models that were sent out on the hearing were cleared in relation to international conventions in advance. But my question to the Right is in relation to municipal self-government, because now it is that the Right has fluctuated considerably in the later period when it comes to strengthening local self-government. What causes the Right in this case to be so distrustful of the municipalities that they can't actually accept that the municipalities pay out a bill laid down in the laws, establish rules that the municipality cannot deviate from? How does it harmonize with having increased confidence in municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e652	It is quite correctly perceived that the Right has great confidence in the municipal sector and in the local self-government. We also show in practice, through decisions and proposals from the Government, through programmes and other political decisions on which the Right is involved, that we are increasingly delegating to the local government sector and reducing the number of earmarked grants – perhaps a little in contrast to the Centre Party, which often talks about the same, but little in practice. We continue the same principle here too, by now letting the municipal average be the basis for the calculation of grants, which has absolutely to do with the belief that good local politicians are willing to prioritize financial resources for the school in the future. But then, at the same time, we take the signals that come, both from the colleges and from other teams, that in the payout area there may be reason to hurry slowly, because here we – among other things. Based on the reasons I gave in my reply earlier, poor experience with the majority of the population in following up on the commitments we have towards this type of school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e659	Then the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e662	‘Cooperation management will ensure and promote the diversity of schools between school options. The private school law needs to be improved, with a view to simplifying the criteria for recognition and a much shorter procedure period. The co-operation management will introduce a separate grant for capital costs and assess an increase in the operating grant. The aim is to ensure a better financial basis for parental/applicant choices.’ This is a direct quote from the Sem statement, the document that gave the private schools reason to hope that they could finally run schools with a minimum of expenses for their parents, but it melted away. The statement, signed by the party for the higher values, gave parents hope that the children would get good training opportunities and a little bit more. A new promise of hope for all parties for a better financial situation for the health schools, parents and students can be promoted again in the next election campaign: ‘With blank papers and color markers for’. Proposal No. 15, which is delivered in the hall today, says that we can get a reduction of 7 pst. in the grant to the post-secondary schools. If the government stays seated, maybe we can get up to 7 pst. increase, even. It's not as likely to believe it over time. Proposal No. 16, the first part, at best, shows that the belief in being seated in government offices is very strong. But is that likely? A simple analysis in this context could be: SV would not play, and we had to have a majority. Is it really that trivially simple? In that case, the case rapporteur and the other government parties who sovereignly choose to initiate the active torpedoing of the Sem declaration are entirely on their own. We in the Progress Party are both amazed and sad, but that is not something we can do. Tuesday, May 27th, we will deal with the Innst. O. No 80 on the law of high school. On page 5 of that position, a majority, consisting of the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Advance Party, stated that it was intended to give the host municipality the right to state its opinion in cases of approval, but – as the majority finally stated in the remark – ‘that it’ – the right – ‘does not have to be characterised by a municipal veto right. Such a right to veto the municipalities is the majority of the opponents of”. Proposal No. 16 is just going to be this veto right over here. This was the honest and sincere opinion of the government parties on 27 May – 17 days ago. Change of mind is allowed, but the credibility of each party loses greatly when political beliefs and promises are not sustainable in the freshware counter for more than 14 days, when voters buy a shelf life that should be at least four years. The party of progress was accused in a school case by the representative Elsa Scarbøvik of giving rise to increased political disdain. Her observation of what was bred contempt can today be seen as both foresight and foresight, but for other constellations. As regards proposal No: 14, this is mildly misleading, because it uses the word ‘freeze’ — in quotes — and links it to a guiding principle of allowing school money to be used. This promotes a school for the well - fed. The Progress Party, on the other hand, has been responsible for economic equality between public and private schools for many years. I would like to remind the House that the Progress Party has promoted Document No. 8:67 for 1998-99 on the amendment of the Private School Act. This document contained legal changes based on 100 pst. non-economical treatment of public and private schools. Only the Progress Party voted in favour of this requirement, and the reason for this is what we see today. If it is possible to see matters in context, it must be crystal clear that, with full public funding based on a single price from the State, parental payment will not be accepted by the Progress Party. Has the familiar splint of the eye become a beam for some? When the Progress Party is promoting proposals today on 90 p.m. Reimbursement, this is a concrete step on the way to giving all children the same right to choose training, regardless of the family's economy. We in the Progress Party have learned that small steps are better than no steps. This is a principle that only the Progress Party is behind, even though other political parties verbally call for the equivalency of children, regardless of their economy. With this, I would like to address the proposals of the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e692	The representative of Ursula Evje has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e697	In the comments in the settings, the party has used a lot of words about supervision and the control function in independent schools. The Progress Party proposes, inter alia: the establishment of parental councils in each school. The Board of Parents shall have independent authority and supervise the school. The parental board shall produce reports and shall be further processed in public bodies. One can get the impression that the Progress Party is more concerned with parental rights in private schools than in public schools. Is it the case that public schools are less important for the Progress Party, or is it also the case that there is a greater need for parental supervision in private schools than in public schools? Is there, after all, no agreement between the members of the Progress Party on equal treatment between public and private schools anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e704	This is not the first time that the Progress Party has many words, many opinions and many proposals in terms of quality control, control procedures, objectivity and reprobability. I thought the representative Nielsen was aware of that. To make her aware of another thing: the school, whether public or private, is the parent’s main tool for fulfilling their obligation to ensure that the children receive the training required by the law. And if parents are not allowed to enter school, to exercise supervision, to exercise control, the political ideological landscape actually helps to abolish the right that parents obviously have under the Children's Act Section 30. I didn't think it was something that the Workers' Party would think the Progress Party should go into.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e711	Thus, the wording ‘to place a significant emphasis on the municipality’s opinion’ does not mean municipal veto, it cannot be read or understood as such. However, the Progress Party disagrees that the municipal specific grant basis should be used, which is the main principle in this case. The reason is that there will be greater inequalities in public funding for students in Norwegian school. The party wants to maintain today's system, and believes that today's system will lead to greater equality between public and private schools. But that's exactly what the majority is justifying for going to the municipal funding system, for wanting greater equality between colleges and public schools. The Progress Party does not see that the system that we have today, and that they want to continue, just leads to the opposite of what they use to justify.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e718	I use glasses, and thus I may see badly, but I had never thought that anyone in this room could make himself say that the Advance Party was a conservator for today's school funding, but that was actually how the representative Voie could be perceived. Our view is the state price of all children, whether they go to a public school or a private school, and the price of each item is calculated according to the actual training needs of each child, i.e. it can vary. This would give, if it had got a majority, 100 pst. equivalent funding, and public schools too would have had a significantly better economic space with our system than they now have with the majority system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e725	There was a word game here with regard to glasses, and then I would like to say that anyone who believes that the government parties torpedo the Sem-Declaration of the Free Schools should definitely change glasses. We're actually doing it, that's what we're doing. Then I want to quote myself from my post on May 27, this year, where I said the following: ‘In applying for the approval of health schools, municipalities shall give their opinion on the possible consequences for public schools, but the municipalities shall not have a veto right. Here is a judgement which may, in some specific cases, affect the application procedure.» It's into this discretionary room proposal No. 16 must be read, stressing that when examining applications for the establishment of fresh oils, a «important emphasis may be placed on the opinion of the municipality». This isn't a veto, but it goes into the beauty room, which I admit has been there all along.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e738	On pages 11 and 12 of the vote there is a proposal, No. 10, which could have resulted in a pretty quick fulfillment of the Sem statement. It's like: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the introduction of a capital grant and its amendment in addition to operating grants for independent schools in the context of the 2004 State budget.’.» The government parties could have voted in favour, so this would have been all right, and we would have saved a considerable amount of work later. To the representative of Lyngstad. When it comes to putting ‘essential’ emphasis on the municipality’s opinion, there may be something more than an ordinary consultation round.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e750	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e753	I would probably wish Ursula Evje were right, and that there was a veto right in the proposal text, but it probably doesn't. Some leads have been introduced in relation to the use of discretion. The fight for the private schools we lost on May 27th, and I'm sorry. I think it was intended to lose this, but I don't see it as being final. We can promise that if this possibility occurs later on, we'll have a rematch on the private school law that the majority passed on 27 May. But that's not now we're taking the rematch, now we're dealing with another case. When I listen to some of the posts, I'm a little unsure about what we're really dealing with right now. The best thing to say about Ot.prp. No 80 for 2002-2003, the case we are dealing with now is that it is somewhat tightening compared to what we adopted on 27 May. It's tightening up in the field of commercialization, and I'm very happy about that. I choose to believe that with the law paragraph we adopt today, it is impossible to run commercial school in Norway, and that we have sealed the holes and seen the holes that are possible. I would like to commend the Council of State for presenting this proposal which makes us close the hole that was open after treatment on 27 May – or at least that was there as a great opportunity, so I'm glad that we've sealed it. I don't feel completely safe, because we know what happens when we're going to start practicing this. So even if we now adopt a law paragraph, we have to be on guard against commercial schools, because it will be an accident. On 27 May, the majority also adopted a §6-1 on funding – SV was against – that goes on government funding and government averages. Of two poor models, we see that the model with which the Council of State came back was somewhat better, where we operate with municipal averages and state subsidies and payments. We don't have any strong feelings or any strong commitment -- really nothing good, we don't like any of this. But when we were going to choose between two bottoms, we chose to engage in dialogue with the Government, as the Government was busy getting through this one model, as they came along now. We've done that, and we've talked to the government parties about this. We have negotiated a number of proposals that are on the table today. It goes without saying that the ‘free principle’ should not allow private schools to spend extra money on self-payments, so that they become extra attractive, and that they get extra nice, great tours to both the one and the other, and that we try to put a lid on this piece. So we're trying to prevent the big outcomes of the transition to the new income system, that is to say, prevent the greatest outcomes, what is plus/minus 7 pst. If we go in and look at what we've been given, it includes some municipalities. We actually think it's a little bit important, maybe not dramatic, but a little bit important. And then we get into this proposal no. 16, which, in our opinion, is quite important, namely that we are trying to lead the way towards the discretion that the Council of State in this case is going to do in the future. Substantial emphasis shall be placed on what the municipality says, if such a post-school establishment has a negative impact on the school structure of the municipality and causes increased expenditure by the municipality of importance. It must be difficult for municipalities to prove this. When the Council of State has an application and the municipality can document this, it should weigh heavily in her assessment. The same applies if an establishment imposes additional loads on students in terms of increased travel time. If the municipality can demonstrate and demonstrate that this post-school or private school establishment will have the consequence that the public school will be closed down and that students will have a significantly longer school route, this will be difficult for the government to assess whether this school can be established. We felt that it was important to be able to get this into a case that was initially lost for us. We sat there with two bottoms, and then we get what's least evil, while we get this clarification in. And then we actually chose to do that. When I hear what's being thrown out that we're going in for both the one and the other, I wonder if we're really discussing the same thing. And it's a little silly if we don't discuss the same thing, because then quite a lot of people get out wrong. I am addressing the proposal on which we stand alone, and the proposals we have with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e772	The representative Rolf Rikvam has drawn up the proposals that he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e777	I guess I could have taken this line in relation to others, but it's a little bit about ourselves. We gave the vote on Tuesday, where it was found that there was no majority for any proposal, nor was there any alternative vote. It might be expected to come during the day here. I think some of the reasons for that is the urgency of the government parties and the Progress Party will have issues here in Stortinget on, which means that we almost just came up with primary positions in the setting. I think it makes sense if you spend a little bit more time, and I think that it can form the basis for a better basis for decisions here in the Stortinget. So today – two days afterwards – the joint proposal from the government parties and the SV is being promoted that changes the positions of the parties at several points and that also introduces new things in relation to numerical sizes. It is therefore not a subsidiary vote. I think this is an inexorable way of doing it. When I take a line here, it is to say that a committee leader should at least ensure that the realities of the positions of the parties come forward before the day on which the matter is to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e788	The realities of the matter have been lying there all along, so everyone who is able to read is able to see what is the majority position, and what this would be. The fact is that on 27 May, the majority, the Progress Party together with the government parties, adopted a financing model that would have remained in place today if SV had not joined the government parties and created a different model, which is less evil for us than the one that had been decided. Then we chose to do it, and then we got some clarifications that went our way. So we chose to take this. We invited several parties to join that dialogue, but we stayed alone. The actual ratio is that no matter what we had done today, the majority had adopted a financing arrangement on 27 May that was worse than what we adopt today. I figured that's what we were going to discuss here and now, but I'm a little bit unsure if that's what we're discussing. Then I agree that we have had too much time. We should have had more time on this matter. We lost this case, and there's nothing more to rub on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e797	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e800	On 14 May this year, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Local Affairs invited them to their own press conference. They presented what they called a historical reform of local self-government. They suggested including 15 ear-marked additions for a total of $8 billion. The kindergarten bill of $7.6 billion was the one. So that means there were 14 more in this pot of 400 million. kr. It's going to be a derailment to focus on these 400 million. NOK and talk about the fact that it gives the municipalities a great deal of freedom of action. It may give you a free hand to cut in some vulnerable areas. The details came in the municipal proposition the next day. The message from this press conference is in stark contrast to the issue we are discussing now, the proposal for a new funding system for freshular. It is not to be overlooked that this proposal manifests distrust of the municipalities. In accordance with the Training Act, municipalities have the responsibility to provide all children and young people with compulsory education. Local authorities could also take a holistic responsibility for the payment of grants both to the local authorities and to the independent schools. But according to the government, they can't take that responsibility. The center part shows in the setting that we are entering for the so-called model 1. We can't see that a model with municipal payments of bonuses will lead to an increase in uncertainty for the individual independent school. Approved schools have the right to opt-in according to rules that local authorities cannot rule out. This must mean that their interests are fully safeguarded by a municipal payment. We emphasise that a model with municipal payments in addition would result in the abolition of the scheme with features in the frame. This leads today to a great deal of insecurity for the municipalities that have to give away elephants to private schools. The importance of local school authorities’ needs for municipalities means that the municipality must be given the opportunity to develop a holistic development of school provision in the municipality in collaboration with the independent schools. A direct government funding of the private spheres must be a clear violation of the Government's presentation of wanting to increase municipal self-government. We don't understand how the government on the one hand can carry out what they call a historical reform of the municipal self-government, and at the same time encroach on their responsibilities within the municipal sector's core tasks. Today's legal changes also involve changes in the collection of information. We believe that the department has given after the researchers its eagerness to research, and that it can threaten the privacy by suggesting that the department should use the person number in the registration. The centre party's skepticism has been permeated. The case spokespersons have prepared a note and a proposal to ensure this. We also found it important that it is said from the majority that elephants with specific pedagogical arrangements and needs need to be able to seek exemption from participating in the national assessment system. At the end of the vote. We understand that all three proposals that have been made today are a clear improvement in the present system, and that is a clear improvement in what was agreed on 27 May. We are particularly pleased with proposal No. 16 and the clarifications given there, but we're going to substantially support all three proposals, both No. 14, 15 and 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e823	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e826	I think the Central Party both in the work of the committee and also here has acted very logically and intelligibly from the point of view of the starting point. Now I heard that the representative Meltveit Kleppa had a very long post about local self-government, and she thought that she could automatically derive from the responsibility of the municipality for the school sector, based on the fact that the municipalities also have a financial responsibility for health schools. I am not so sure that there is a logical link between local self-government and the principle that one should have a financial responsibility for the colleges as well. When I say that I'm not so convinced of the logical relationship, it's related to the fact that the incubator is not a municipal task. Free schools are built on a parental rights bill, which parents start on their own keel. I actually think the logic is going to be wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e838	The central party has just defended the old private sphere out of parental rights. We have been concerned about the approval of some of the schools according to this law – it is. But we have defended the principle and this law. We are deeply disagreeable with the change that is now being made, and we believe that it can actually imply a restriction of parental rights. It can actually be that the parents who today want a good public school for their kids can choose a fresh spot because the public school is being laid down as a result of a tight community economy. For this reason, it is important for us to maintain our local authorities' responsibility for a locally organised supply. Mr Difor is proposal No. 16 important to us. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e846	No more lines have been requested.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e849	In this proposition, Ot.prp. No 33, the Government has put forward proposals for a new funding system for independent schools, following last December's proposal for a new school law. Today’s funding system for independent municipal schools is based on different principles. In other words, schools in the same municipality that have the same number of students will be able to have different financial frameworks, depending on who owns the school. This can be perceived unfairly by both parties, and therefore, in my opinion, there is a need for a greater degree of non-principal treatment for independent municipal schools in the same area. I'm saying "princely" because we're not talking about financial in terms of the level of grants. It's not for treatment today. Therefore, the proposal proposes to change the current grant model, which is based on a national average, to a grant model that takes into account the operating costs of the school in the municipality where the fresh-oil is located. So we're proposing a grant model with a municipal grant basis, and I have the impression that, in principle, there's quite broad support for this idea in the hall. At the same time, we say that the current correction system of the income system needs to be assessed, including in particular the level of the migration rate. This assessment will not lead to a reduction in the overall framework of the local government sector. The traction rate is a part of a zero-sum game, where increases or reductions only affect the distribution between municipalities, not the overall framework. And besides, it's reasonable, and reason to think, that the migration rate will still be lower than the average cost, even though deviations in the future could be less than today. I have registered that there are three proposals, which have been submitted today, relating to a transition to a municipal specific grant basis. I see proposal No. 15 in order to limit the impact on the transition to a municipal specific grant basis. I think this is acceptable, and it can happen within the proposed provisions that are being discussed today. It limits the results, you could say, at both good and bad for all parties, depending on who is looking at this. Proposal No. 16 says that emphasis should be placed on the opinions of municipalities. It is not a veto right, it is an emphasis on some factors that are already included in the proposal on the law and the law, and that emphasis should be placed on them. Proposal No. 14 on the free principle, I also think it is right, although it is clear that it is easier to implement this free principle as formulated in the proposal if the grant to colleges is high and not reduced. It is a little paradoxical that those who are concerned about the free principle, in order to use that expression, are at the same time concerned about reducing the grant to the colleges, because then inevitably an effect of it could be an increase in self-esteem. We have also made some proposals for monitoring and monitoring the use of grant funds. Here I notice that it is in agreement with the Government's proposal. And then we put forward some provisions on collecting information. The Ministry needs permission to obtain information from the national samples in order to examine the students’ progress over time. This information shall be published in the quality portal at school and school owner level. The collection of information will also allow for research into quality development in schools, and such data will include, inter alia: provide a better knowledge base for actions targeted specifically at vulnerable groups. The data collection shall of course be subject to the Data Protection Act, which ensures the privacy of students and teachers. I have noticed that a joint committee has asked the Government to provide an assessment of privacy in connection with the creation of information bases on student test results at individual level, and I will of course comply with this. However, let me make it clear now that the public will not be given any person-identifiable information, that there is only data on basic skills in primary and student motivation, learning strategies and confidence in their own skills in the subjects that will be available to teachers, school managers and school owners after detailed authorisation, and that using personal numbers to connect to background variables will only be done for research purposes, after an assessment of each case. Such a link will only take place internally in the Central Statistical Office. In both cases, data security requirements for the processing of such data will be addressed, and this is not unusual for the Statistical Central Bureau. But we can elaborate on this when we come back with a case at the request of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e875	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e878	There is strong disagreement between the parties as to who is to pay the aid to the private school. The Ministry wants the payment to continue to be made by the State. In the previous case, we heard the Council of State praising municipal autonomy, and that local politicians know best in many contexts. The reason for this is that a municipal payment is perceived as more uncertain and unpredictable for the private schools, and that it is important to ensure the rights of those who want a private offer. Then it becomes amazing that the government wants to remove the designation in most other areas – I can only mention camp schools, school leisure arrangements, music and cultural schools and country lines – and put it into the framework of the municipalities. In the case of private schools, the payment shall remain State-owned. What is the rationale of government payments? Does the Council of State understand that this can be seen as a special treatment for the private school?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e885	Anyone who might have read our original consultation proposal will see that we discussed different models there. We agreed on a municipal grant basis. We talked about a non-discrimination model and an average cost model, and then we discussed government and municipal payments. I believe that there can be arguments for one and the other. But all in all, we've fallen down on the fact that parental rights are the important thing here, and that it has to kind of be governing the payment. It's not so much related to the uncertainty, because the uncertainty I think is more related to the grant basis than to the payment. It's more of a principle attitude, as the representative Arne Lyngstad was within the past. I can join the remarks he made on this point. But I'm openly saying that it's possible to make arguments for the different models.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e892	After Lyngstad's reply to my reply, it could be a good idea to get a clarification. If one sees an increase in grants giving room for a better offer, there is nothing wrong with a school owner wanting to achieve this in view of his students. Is there anything in the government's proposed legislation that prevents a school owner from having two schools within a reasonable distance of cloud for students, so that the school owner, when admitted to schools, is prevented from distributing the students in order to obtain optimum financial opportunities to provide the best possible range of services?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e899	I think there are many people who are wrong about the new law on free school, on one essential point, namely that there should be an economy that governs the establishment of fresh schools. In our approach, there is no economic incentive to start a high school. It's rather the opposite. This is the law of the firemen. This requires great effort and quite a lot of hard work. I don't think people are moving their refresher around for economics. But if it's more expensive to run school in one municipality than in another, it's because it's more expensive. That doesn't mean there's anything left over. But there's a relationship with that municipality that makes it more expensive to run school. I don't think that kind of motive will control the establishment of fresh oils. I think it's going to be a significant distinction from Swedish legislation, which actually gives access to dividends. There you can imagine private, commercial companies that set up schools, with big investments up front, because they expect them to get it back. It will not be possible in Norway. Here there will be fires attached to a local environment and to a burning idea that establishes a school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e904	The aim of the free principle is precisely to ensure that schools are not able to require extra payment from their parents in addition to the difference between 85 pst. and 100 p.p., so that they can be more attractive than the public schools, by having fine camp schools and other great facilities that the public school cannot afford. That's why it was important for us to stress this very thing, because we've broken the free principle in public school. So to proposal No. 16th@item: inlistbox It has two functions, it's important to be aware of. One function is aimed at the municipalities, that they now know that they need to tighten up and that they need to properly justify their assessments. When the municipalities receive an application for setting up a private school, they have to do a real job. They have to go in and be able to identify and document. It is important to tell the municipalities that if you do, the discretion to be exercised by the Council of State should take into account what you can demonstrate. I would also like the Council of State to confirm that proposal No. 16 will affect her discretion's possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e911	Now, unlike previous state councils and in and of myself, I have not intended to sit personally and decide these applications. I hope we've got a law that can be managed by a professional body under the Ministry of Education and Research. I think it is important that the municipalities are well within this, that emphasis be given to what the municipalities believe within the moments mentioned in this proposal. But I am also very concerned that there should be a good dialogue. I don't think the municipalities and colleges should view each other as opponents or enemies, but that they should view themselves as two parties who can work together to make the best possible school offer in the municipality. I think that's what we're doing through what's in the law. I also think that is right, what is being proposed here today, because it underlines some of the conditions to be taken into account and given weight, without becoming a veto right.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e918	I would like to ask the Council to clarify two aspects. The first relates to the economy. I share her view that, contrary to Swedish law, the Norwegian will not stimulate the special establishment of independent schools for the fortest. But she does realize that economy has something to say? Although the municipalities have tight borders, a number of freshbulbs have already been established, and others may come. The other applies to the foundations and local self-government. I see it as the main difference between model 1, for which the Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party are in favour, and model 3b, for which the Government is in favour, is who is to pay the bill. Does the Council of State see that one day in May it will be a historic reform for local self-government, and then give in to the healthiest because they do not trust the municipalities, can it seem quite contradictory?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e925	I have already commented on this with payment. To the extent that there is some contradiction here, I think it's for nothing compared to part of the other contradictions that arise in this room in terms of municipal autonomy. There have been a number of national meetings in spring that have promoted municipal autonomy. It's going to be exciting to see how many people are able to follow it all the way to the goal. As far as the economy is concerned, I think that in ten years' time this debate will appear a little strange. We can only think about the nursery arrangement that is now being concluded, and ask ourselves: do the private kindergartens that receive public support take something from the public kindergartens? I don't think we think of it this way when it comes to kindergartens today, and of course it won't be like this either. A student can only attend one school at a time, fresh schools receive less than public schools, and public schools are to be drawn for less than the amount that they receive.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e933	With reference first to the line of the representative, and then to the Council of State's response: The Storting knows in principle only the Council of State, and not her office. That's why we really need to relate to what she's saying, and have no idea of anything else. The representative of Kampestad did not receive a clear and adequate answer to his question to the Council of State. He got an answer that sounded something like this: there is no prohibition in the law, but views from the government and the government parties based on the principle that it would not be such that idealists created a school in each municipality, so as to close the students between the municipalities that financed the school best. What I want now is not vision, but: Can the Council of State say yes or no to whether this is possible under the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e942	I am aware, of course, that the Storting only knows the Council of State. The reason I allowed myself to mention it was that it was a topic in the context of the treatment of the law on high school education, whether or not to add the approval to an independent underlying body. It was simply a theme in the setting at the time of treatment, and therefore I allowed myself to mention it. There has also been a lot of talk about how the great political beauty of the current private school law can cause problems, especially when there are frequent government shifts and government councils have different opinions about private schools. Frankly, I have to admit that I do not know whether I understand the questions of the Progress Party when it comes to closing students between schools and municipalities. To me, it sounds very strange that some parents should let themselves be involved in something that involves shutting down students even from time to time. Those who want to establish a school have to apply, then the criteria have to be met, and then it will be approved. If there is a montessori school or someone else behind it – the same union is behind a number of schools in a number of municipalities – I do not see what the problem is, because they will then receive different grants according to the new model.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e949	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e952	I must admit that I was quite surprised when I saw the suggestions that were on the table this morning. Not so much about the proposals that came now and not in the setting, but about the Right joining with the Socialist Left on a proposal that undermines the colleges by making it more difficult than necessary to get permission to get started. In this proposal, the right will focus on a number of things. Although it may not be a purely veto right for the municipalities, ‘essential emphasis on’ is a very strong expression, so it’s not that far away. What is it that the Right wants significant emphasis to be placed on when a school applies for a permit? Well, it's the municipality's school structure, the municipality's expenses, and the distance to the public schools. In the past, I thought it was actually the way that the Right put significant emphasis on completely different things, namely the quality of school and the professional content of teaching. There can be no doubt that with this proposal, the Right SV not only gives the little finger, but the whole hand. This proposal, if adopted, will be used for everything it is worth in the years to come, by all politicians who are opposed to a trend towards more private schools. With this decision in hand, a majority of a local government, consisting for example of the Workers' Party and SV, can press the Ministry to reject the application from a school that can offer the world's best professional arrangements, and justify it by having a negative impact on the school structure of the municipality, and by imposing some additional costs on the municipality. This is to give priority to the consideration of the local economy in terms of professional content and quality. It puts the beautiful election vows to bet on quality in school in a strange light. This proposal is screaming for an explanation, which I have not received so far today. And that explanation should be good if the Right wants to keep its credibility as a party that puts quality as the all, all the most important in its school policy. We should now get a proper explanation from the representative Voie, or others in the Right, as to why it is so important to give the ministry this instruction to focus on the school structure of municipalities above quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e961	SV is satisfied with the decision that is on the table today. I also think that the minister and the government parties are, because if we remember the debate we had about the last time colleges, SV stressed that we chose to take the council of state on the word, that she was also concerned about the quality of public school. That's what this is about, you have to have a balance here, and you have to be concerned that the quality should not be impaired in public schools. We have a common, big job to do there to make the public school so good that it can compete with anyone, and that everyone wants their children there. But the reason I took the floor was that the Council of State had a challenge in relation to local maritime governance. I would just like to remind the Council of State that the kindergarten agreement that we entered into here is now an agreement, so there is no reason to polemise against it. But there might be reason to remind the Council of State that where things have really been taken up and lifted out of the local elected bodies, the hospital reform is. And when you say A about the hospital reform, it follows some letters after that, which several of us later voted for, because we've had to do it once we've decided this. If we compare the size of this and some of the trifle things that are now happening, and are about to make a big debate about, the local maritime administration and some small things of some earmarked means, it will be – to put it mildly, and to return the claim to the Council of State – for puzzles. If you really want to talk about freedom for the community sector, you have to make sure that there is consistency between the tasks and the revenue you have. That's what SV wants. Then there will be real freedom for the municipalities, but there will also be freedom for the people who will be able to get services they actually need, of a quality that a modern society can be familiar with. So I think maybe there's no reason to take that tone when it comes to who is making sure that there is local action room in Norwegian municipalities and county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e970	The representative Karita Bekkemelm Orheim started his post by saying that we are now opening up a free slip of private schools and hospitals. The representative Simonsen says the very opposite, that we are now promoting a proposal that undermines the colleges. Both of them can't possibly be right at the same time. But it could be that here lies the truth, the reality, somewhere in between. It is not that the Right and Government prioritize the consideration of the local economy in front of quality and creativity. We want to give priority to the local economy in order to strengthen public schools, and while strengthening the local economy and public schools, we offer opportunities to meet the needs of free schools for a stable framework, for a good and safe economy, to have the opportunity both to establish a new school and to run it with an economic foundation similar to that of public schools. That's why I think it – in part – the tirad of criticism and alleged changes in Right Policy that came from the representative Simonsen in terms of the policies that both the Government and the Right are pursuing in relation to fresh schools and the quality of school at all, shooting far beyond goals and not in line with reality. With regard to the realities of proposal No. 16, the SV’s proposer has also confirmed that the proposal does not imply a municipal veto right. That's actually what Simonsen's representative was together with the government parties when we dealt with the law of free school, by stressing that there was no local veto right here. And this is not the case today with the proposal that is now on the table. But that the Ministry and the Government have an opportunity to assess the views and input that come from the municipality, and also place crucial emphasis on these points of view, we seem to be both reasonable and correct at the stage we are going into. In fact, we take care of many of the reasons, and also the points of view, put forward by the critics of the Free School Act. In many ways, there is a good way to meet the opposition as well. And since Rolf Reikvam from SV in a previous post today gave praise to the government parties for good cooperation in improving the quality of school, I would like to say that it is nice that at least one party in Stortinget sees the need to ensure the stable framework of the schools – in addition to the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e983	I'll try not to prolong the debate. I just felt the need to clarify what might seem to be a misunderstanding in relation to the posts of the representative, Karin Andersen. I didn't mean to polemise against the nursery agreement, it was rather the opposite. What I meant was to use it as an illustration of a perhaps bold prediction for the future. Today, most people believe that it is nice to give grants to private kindergartens and that it does not steal anything from public kindergartens. There is a certain level of non-discrimination between private and public kindergartens. That's just what was my point, that there might be a moment in the future when it comes to colleges – just to clarify that I haven't criticized anything that has just been settled here in Stortinget. One more thing for Karin Andersen. I fully agree that the most important thing we can do, and what is at the top of my agenda, is to strengthen public school and improve quality there. That's over 98 pst. by the students leaving. Of all the educational matters we have dealt with here since I became a minister – someone thinks there are too many – only two have been about in-house schools or private schools, one is the law of free school and the other is the funding of them. The rest is about public school. Last time – just in front of this case – we dealt with a matter that concerns public school, and I believe that the SV and the government parties agree on is a very important quality development issue for the school, that is, the one that concerns, among other things. classification-sharing rules. So just let me use that as an example. It's very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e992	The Council of State referred to the Montessori Association as a federation with several private schools. These are typically schools that have students from several municipalities. Then, as I understand it, there is nothing in the way that the Montessori Association can have two schools close to each other, in different municipalities. Parents can then choose to send their child to the place where the best offer or the largest state grant is given. I assume that the Council of State believes that the parents should choose the education offer that is best for their child, i.e. an invitation to send the child where the state provides room for the best possible professional offer. I have understood that the Council of State believes the legislation opens up. So to the question of municipal opinion, or almost veto. What amazes me most in that context is that if the government parties thought things were clear 17 days ago, what is the need for a new decision that creates ambiguity today? As a legislative assembly, we are used to distinguish between ‘can’, ‘breed’ and ‘shell’. I assume that it is also possible for some to distinguish between ‘to put emphasis on’, ‘to be heard’ and ‘to put significant emphasis on’. ‘Important emphasis on’ means that much is needed to reach a different conclusion. Then it's a good thing to understand that when something has to be added to the ‘essential weight’, it has to be given more emphasis than if you had found that this is just one of several inputs. Then it must be that the government parties believe it is more important to comply with the wishes of the municipalities today than it was 17 days ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e1001	I don't think I got any good explanation from the representative Voie on why it's so important and necessary to give the instructions to the department that's in proposal No. 16th@item: inlistbox The closest he came, was to say that it was a good way to meet the opposition. Yes, the jam should be safe! Some better way to meet the socialist opposition in Stortinget could hardly be found — they can spread the champagne bottle today. If I had been a member of SV or the Workers' Party, I would have gone and got a print of the representative Voie's previous posts, and then I would have put a thick line under which he said that the views of the municipalities were to be put ‘important’. For the representative of Voie, not only did he say that there should be an opportunity to assess the views of the municipalities, but he added that the opinions of the municipalities should be ‘important’. There are many municipalities in this country that are governed by the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. There's not going to be a lot of freshies after this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e1006	The representative Simonsen and the representatives of the Progress Party are launching a couple of debates here, to which I ask myself a little questioning, first of all that parents will choose to send their children to schools with the largest state subsidy. It's actually a parallel to people living in municipalities that spend most of their time in schools. But what's the point of the law and the principle there is that each school is an independent legal entity. Why would schools then cooperate to send students away? It would destroy the economic basis for its own operations. The school would not be established by the parent group if only economic reasoning were used. But it is not just economic reasoning that underlies the establishment of a school. There is a genuine interest in training children in the area. I think this is a very strange problem, which I experience as more theoretical than real. Then I would also like to say to the representative Simonsen about why we are on proposal No. 16, that it's simple because it goes into that margin, and it clarifies judgement, which has been in the proposition. And then we have a majority for a grant model that we want, which is quite important to us. The Socialist Left Party was willing to join that dialogue. As rapporteur of the case, I have freed all other parties to find a solution, but I have not noticed any will. The Socialist Left Party finally took the challenge, and we found a solution that we can live with, that SV can live with, and that provides a good funding system for colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e1015	Søren Fredrik Voie has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e1019	In order to avoid any doubt as to the wording here, the proposal clearly states ‘to place a significant emphasis on the municipality’s opinion where the municipality is located’, etc., so that it is clarified, if I was injured instead of using the word ‘decisive’ instead of ‘essential’. I think Arne Lyngstad explained well what is the reality here. Here, both the representative Simonsen and the Progress Party have resigned from the political discussion by saying that they will not be involved in negotiating a solution that will allow the colleges to have a funding system with which they can live in the future. When one then has to go to another party in order to achieve the solution that is absolutely necessary, it should be lacking that, through negotiations, no compromise proposals are made that will deviate slightly from the most ideal solution, which we could probably have wished for, more than Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e1026	With regard to the question of «essential weight», which Voie has now made various interpretations of what does – I think – mean, it is well that I wonder whether the government parties can find any stronger expression that can give the municipality a stronger decision-making authority in such cases than that of «essential importance». Then it must be ‘critical’. So it's as strong as you can say without adding all the other reasons completely dead. But no matter how far you think the «essential weight» extends, at least it extends considerably beyond what was the majority 17 days ago. Even Voie should have trouble explaining himself. With regard to Lyngstad's views, that schools should be their own legal entities, nothing is problematic about that. But there is still nothing that prevents parents from choosing which of the independent legal entities they want to send their children to. In this context, there are actually areas in the Kingdom which are relatively densely populated, where distances are not necessarily very long, and where they can be quite indifferent, transport-related, which school you choose. If the Montessori Association is a serious actor, I assume that they also want to offer the best possible offer to all their students, wherever they should now live. As I have understood the legislation, and at least it has not been cancelled, parents have the full opportunity to choose it from the colleges they themselves want, unless there are some rules on boycotting that the school has opportunities to do, which I cannot see.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e1033	Jan Simonsen has had the word twice and gets the word to a short comment limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e1036	To the representative Voie: I don't think he would have come that far if he had managed to negotiate a solution with the representative Simonsen, unfortunately. When he then chose SV instead of the Advance Party, I will not share blame for why it was not possible to get into an arrangement with the Advance Party, which would normally be much more natural. But it is sad that the government parties have had to cooperate with the Socialist Left on such an important matter of principle as the funding mechanism for the primary schools. It is just that proposal No. 16, which we have now discussed thoroughly, actually has nothing to do with the funding mechanism. So the government parties have chosen to extend their cooperation with the socialists far beyond what was necessary to create a proper funding system, and in a way that will undermine the free school system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e1041	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 995]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e1057	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will propose that three replies be given to comments from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President sees it as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e1066	The Ministry of Oil and Energy proposes in Ot.prp. No 46 some amendments to the Petroleum Act to adapt it to the situation on the Norwegian continental shelf and to the challenges facing the petroleum industry. The most important step is to change the scope of the Petroleum Act to include the use of petroleum in installations operating on land, if the exploitation is necessary for or included as an integral part of the extraction or transport of petroleum. The proposal is a follow-up to the oil and gas notification, in order to allow the implementation of the intentions contained in it. The Committee has largely agreed with the legislative amendments, but with some dissenting comments and a concrete minority proposal for amended legislative text in a paragraph of the Act. I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their prompt and effective consideration of this matter. An example of the importance of changing the law so that land use is also covered is the Snow White extension in Hammerfest. In this case, experience shows that it is difficult to separate the process of splitting wet gas into different parts such as butane and propane and cooling of dry gas into LNG, from the extraction of the gas itself. It's all connected. It is clear that it will become more and more relevant for builders that part of the activity previously carried out in the fields is being moved into shore-based facilities. This can provide more efficient operation and reduce investment scope. The legislative changes aim to create – and maintain – competition in transport systems and other installations for oil and gas. Large investments in such systems often become a natural monopoly and are therefore set out in the law to allow authorities to enter and regulate the use of such devices by third parties, thereby preventing monopoly pricing of services. By providing third-party access to the installations and preventing overpriced use, we will be able to ensure the highest possible value creation on Norwegian base. The majority of the Committee endorses the legislative amendments, which promote a policy in which the profits of companies from the petroleum industry are primarily taken into account in the field and not in the infrastructure. The majority of the Committee also subscribes to the Government’s proposal that the Ministry may make changes to previously approved tariffs and other conditions. However, the majority assume that this does not conflict with the long-term nature of the framework conditions necessary for the planning of companies. The majority of the Committee also points out that the extension of the scope of the Petroleum Act should not lead to a deterioration in the competitiveness of rural sites competing downstream in international markets, such as: The methanol factory of the Tent Goods. The aim of the legislative proposals is to ensure good competition on a Norwegian base. This is important in order to also allow new operators to participate in the socket, which may be particularly important in relation to tail production in mature fields, or to the extraction of small fields. It is also important to ensure that the long-term development path outlined in St.meld. No 38 for 2001-2002 can be realised. The risk profile of our oil and gas installations has changed recently. While there was earlier the danger of war that posed the relevant threat, there is today the danger of deliberate acts of injury such as acts of terrorism, espionage and sabotage in various forms that are most prominent. The legislative proposal therefore imposes a number of obligations on rightholders regarding the implementation of protective measures, the possession of conscious contingency plans and the making available of their facilities for exercises, etc. This is in agreement with the Committee. Unfortunately, it seems that such preparedness is becoming increasingly necessary. The Committee considers that the requirement for Norwegian base operators to have offices in Norway has contributed to the development of a strong petroleum environment in Norway. The legislative proposal provides for an opening to derogate from this requirement, but the majority of the Committee points out that there must be serious grounds for granting such a derogation. The Committee also points to the importance of the priority given to HMS work by operators and licensees and the equivalence of the conditions of the various operators on Norwegian base. With this, I refer you to the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e1099	There is an aberrant proposal to be put to the vote, and it is a proposal from SV. I take up the proposal herein. In addition, we will vote against the amendment to Section 10-2, because we do not want to allow the Government to weaken the requirement that the rightholder should have an organisation in Norway. This is fundamentally breaking with what has been some of the most successful in Norwegian oil policy. We can't see reason to give this home to the Department and to the Government, so we want to vote against the amendment to Section 10-2.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e1106	The representative Rolf Rikvam has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e1109	I am, of course, pleased with the view expressed by a solid majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment in this matter. The Petroleum Act shall facilitate the achievement of the objective of the highest possible value creation from the petroleum industry. In order to achieve this, I consider it very important that the petroleum law be adapted to the situation on Norwegian continental shelf and the challenges facing you today in the petroleum industry. In the last oil message, St.meld. No 38 for 2001-2002, two possible development pathways for Norwegian petroleum production, the weather path and the long-term development path are compared. The long-term development path shows that there is a resource base for a significant production of oil and gas from Norwegian continental shelf towards and long after 2050. Realising the long-term development path will be in line with the central objective of the petroleum activity as laid down in the Petroleum Act and in line with the Government’s objective. I believe that the proposals for amendments to the petroleum law that have been promoted make a good contribution to achieving the long-term development path and will ensure good resource management. With regard to the proposal to extend the scope of the Petroleum Act on land, I would like to point out that the Petroleum Act already applies to certain installations on land. The current delimitation of the scope of the law has resulted in some installations on land which are important for the extraction of petroleum falling outside the scope of the law. The Petroleum Act is the central legal instrument for all petroleum activities related to subsea petroleum occurrences, even when carried out on land. This shall allow the country, as a resource owner, to ensure that maximum petroleum on the base is produced in accordance with sound economic principles. In Ot.prp. No 46 I have also taken the initiative to propose a number of other adaptations to the Petroleum Act. Here I'm just going to briefly draw out some of these. It is proposed to make some changes to the relationship between the approval of plans for the development and operation of a petroleum body according to § 4-2 and the specific authorisation of installations and the operation of devices according to § 4-3 in order to better adapt the petroleum law to the current situation. I see a development in which more and more fields depend on using devices that are originally or are built to operate another field. On this basis, I have taken the initiative to propose to amend sections 4 to 3, so that devices to be owned by other than the rightholder of the extraction permit to be operated by the devices may be the subject of a specific authorisation, regardless of whether they are linked to extraction or exploitation. It is not true that this change in § 4-3 leads to a loss of the home one has in § 4-2, second and third paragraphs to have a plan that describes economic, resource, technical, safety, food and environmental conditions, including environmental consequences for a larger area combined. The last paragraph of § 4-3 and the provisions of § 29 of the Petroleum Regulation will also apply to specific authorisations under § 4-3. Thus, the change in § 4-2 and § 4-3 does not in any way imply an environmental impairment, as shown by a minority comment on the part of SV. Furthermore, I have taken the initiative to amend § 4-8 of the Act setting tariffs and other conditions to clarify the department's access to intervention if previously established tariffs and conditions constitute an unreasonable obstacle to the implementation of other good socio-economic projects. This will also strengthen incentives for exploration and could contribute to increased extraction from producing fields. In this context, I would nevertheless point out that § 4-8 states that the owner should be given a reasonable profit, inter alia. from the point of view of investment and the risk of such intervention in previously established tariffs or conditions. I therefore believe that the provision also provides the necessary incentives for investment in such installations and ensures the necessary long-termity of the framework conditions for the builder and owner. Further proposals are made to empower the ministry to derogate from the requirement of Section 10-2 of the Act on its own organisation in Norway. I would like to stress that it would only be appropriate to derogate from the requirement of an organisation in Norway for companies with a small economic size. Finally, as pointed out by the Committee, the proposed amendments are a natural follow-up to the notification of St.Made. No 38 for 2001-2002, as also stressed by the rapporteur. However, both companies and authorities also need to look at further measures to ensure the realisation of the long-term development path outlined in this major communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e1128	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 1000]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e1136	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-8.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e1142	During the debate Sonja Irene Sjøli, on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, put forward the following proposals: ‘Document No. 8:99 [[2002-2003]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e1188	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e1198	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e1205	Ten proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left, on the proposals No. 2 and 3, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals No. 4-10, from Magnar Lund Bergo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The budget asks the Government to ensure that an annual share of up to 1,0 pst is set aside. of the surplus of gambling for research, information, prevention and information activities in relation to gambling addiction.» Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to design the lottery rules in such a way as to give the humanitarian and societal purposes equivalent opportunities to operate.’ Proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate the consequences and ethical aspects of the marketing of gambling in Norway.’ Proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party, it says: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate the possibility of banning gambling on the Internet.’ Proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate the possibility of prohibiting games per game. mobile phone.’» Proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to impose a maximum pay limit on slot machines of NOK 300.’ Proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government that slot machines be fitted with coin inlays only, so that games of banknotes, if any, can be played. credit cards are not possible.’;» Proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party, it says: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that a maximum of 5000 slot machines are deployed in Norway.’ Proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party, it says: ‘The Government asked the Government to address the need for a general rule on the age limit for individual, possibly all types of gambling.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e1275	The President will first address proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, to Section 3. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Law of 24 February 1995 No. 11 on lotteries, the first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 3 shall be replaced by the following: The Ministry may decide by regulation that an annual fee shall be paid for the drawing up of vending machines and entertainment machines.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e1459	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e1472	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Progress Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e1486	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e1496	The President will draw attention to the fact that the letter B has fallen before the request at the end of the suspension. B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e1505	During the debate, Mr Gaundal, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, put forward the following proposals: ‘The decision asks the Government to review the practical and economic consequences of the closure of the paper part of the Norwegian light sheet and to return to Stortinget as appropriate.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e2139	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e2149	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e2159	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e2262	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e2272	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e2361	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e2371	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e2378	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Eva M. Nielsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the proposals No. 2–5, from Ursula Evje on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen Proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case for the organisation of recognition and supervision of all primary and secondary schools.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e2408	The President will first address proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Training Act § 2-5, § 5-5, § 8-2, § 8-3, § 8-4, § 9-1, § 11-3, § 11-12, § 13-7 is maintained until the Storting has dealt with St.meld. No 33 About the resource situation in initial training, etc., The Government's follow-up to the quality committee's setting and its own case of approval and supervision for all primary and secondary schools. ‘... [[2002-2003]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e2424	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Sections 9 to 1 are replaced by the following: Each school shall have a competent professional, pedagogical and administrative traineeship. Multiple schools may have joint leadership.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 11-1 is replaced by the following: At each elementary school, there shall be a cooperation selection with two representatives of the teaching staff, one for others, six for the parental council, two for the pupils and two for the municipality. the second subparagraph is replaced by the following: The cooperation selection shall address half-yearly school-leading reports on the resource situation, the quality of teaching and learning outcomes at school.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e2531	The Labour Party has notified that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e2563	The Labour Party has announced that they are moving towards the first, second and third paragraphs. The center part goes to the third term.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e2584	The working party has here announced that they want to oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e2619	The Labour Party has announced that they are moving towards it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e2699	The Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e2730	The President will vote on proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: «The entry into force of the amendment to the fourth paragraph of § 2-5, § 2-12, third paragraph, § 5-5, second paragraph, § 8-2, repeal of §8-3 and 8-4, amendment to § 11-2 and repeal of § 11-3 are decided upon by the processing of new legislative proposals and after the Stortinget has dealt with St.meld. No 33 About the resource situation in initial training, etc., The Government's follow-up to the quality committee's setting and its own case of approval and supervision for all primary and secondary schools. ‘... [[2002-2003]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e2759	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e2769	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e2786	B and C will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e2793	In the course of the debate, 16 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Karita Bekkemelm Orheim on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 2–4, from Karita Bekkemelm Orheim on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. the proposals No 5-11, by Ursula Evje, on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, proposal No. 12, by Rolf Reikvam, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, on proposal No. 13, by Rolf Rikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 14–16, from Arne Lyngstad on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to assume that the transitional arrangements for today’s private schools shall have a period of three years.’ Proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to present a case which confers jurisdiction on the municipalities in setting up private schools.’ Proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal to add the earmarked grants to the private schools into the framework grant to the municipalities, calculated on the basis of the capital stock in the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 10, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the introduction of a capital grant and its amendment in addition to operating grants for independent schools in the context of the 2004 State budget.’.» Proposal No. 11, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case on the scheme of reduction of municipal framework grants for direct State transfers to independent schools.’ Proposal No. 13, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortingen with an evaluation and assessment of the impact before any changes to the draft rate are made.’ Proposal No. 14, from the Right, Socialist Left Party, Christian Party and Left, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to assume that the ‘free principle’ shall include independent primary schools, in the sense that self-payments are not allowed beyond established parental limits.’ Proposal No. 15, from the Right, Socialist Left Party, Christian Party and Left, says: ‘The government asks the Government to assume that the changes to the individual school grant in the new state-of-the-art grant scheme shall be within a maximum of +/- 7 per cent compared to the current scheme. The transitional period for already approved fresh oils shall be limited to 3 years.» Proposal No. 16, from the Right, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party and Left, says: ‘The Government is asked to place a significant emphasis on the municipality’s opinion when examining applications for the establishment of health schools where the municipality demonstrates that: the establishment of the health school has a negative impact on the school structure of the municipality and causes an increase in expenditure of importance to the municipality. The establishment may lead to the closure of a public school, thereby causing the students significant disadvantages with increased travel time to the public school.Further, the Stortinget Government will ensure the development of fixed procedures for application procedures, including deadlines, which will create predictability for applicants and municipalities. These proposals will be in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e2903	The President will vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party to new § 1-5. The proposal reads as follows: ‘New Sections 1 to 5 of the School Leisure Scheme are replaced by the following: The school owner shall have an offer of school leisure arrangements before and after school for 1-4th grade and for children with special needs of 1-7th grade.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e2950	The President will vote on proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party to § 4-1. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 4-1, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: Each school shall have a principal as its professional, educational and administrative leader.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e2993	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 5, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The President has understood that the Workers' Party and the Centre want to vote against the vote. It is therefore the first to vote on the proposal of the Progress Party and the representative of Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 6-1 Public contributions to primary schools shall be replaced by the following: Stand-alone primary schools approved under § 2-1 receive public support according to the rules of this paragraph.1. Primary schools receive 90 pst from the state. of the usual operating costs of all approved education covered by the primary and secondary law [[training law]] Schools get 90 pst. for showers and accommodation. The Ministry shall lay down rules on the calculation of off-peak noise and the basis of the expenditure on noise and accommodation.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e3025	And then it goes over the setting. The Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition. The Socialist Left supports the vote subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e3124	There are three different proposals, no. 6, paragraph 7 and No 8, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. Alternatively, there will be a vote between the Committee's position and these proposals. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘§ 6-2 Students and the public contributions, school money shall be replaced by the following: All public in-service grants and students' belongings should benefit the students. Schools that accept public contributions covering operating costs and capital expenditure may also charge school money. Controlled the size of the school money. School money must not be higher than what is necessary to cover, in conjunction with the state, either the total operating and capital expenditure corresponding to the level of expenditure of the corresponding public school to which it is natural to compare, or the operating and capital expenditure inherent in the school's purpose and/or pedagogy. If the Board of Directors established school money based on a spending framework of more than 1/8 in excess of the level of public school expenditure to which it is natural to compare, approval by the Ministry is required.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘§ 6-3 The public contribution to supplementary education and school money is replaced by the following: Freestanding secondary schools approved under § 2-2 will receive public support according to the rules of this paragraph.1. For further schools that can be approved according to § 2-2(a), (b) or (d), 90 pst. of the expenditure entered under the heading of title, covered by government intervention. It is calculated from a normal rate. The calculation of the normal rate shall be based on the average expenditure of the public secondary school.2. For further schools approved under § 2-2 (e), 90 pst. of the operating costs that come under the base of charge, covered by government intervention. It is calculated from a normal rate. The requirement is that students receive education at least equivalent to half a school year.3. Approved Norwegian secondary schools abroad receive state support with 90 pst. of one normal rate per student. The calculation of the normal rate shall be based on the average expenditure of the public secondary school. The Ministry may lay down rules.’.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘§ 6-4 Students and the public contributions, school fees for pupils in secondary schools shall be replaced by the following: All public in-service grants and students' belongings should benefit the students. Schools that accept public contributions covering operating costs and capital expenditure may also charge school money. Controlled the size of the school money. School money must not be higher than what is necessary to cover, in conjunction with the state, either the total operating and capital expenditure corresponding to the level of expenditure of the corresponding public school to which it is natural to compare, or the operating and capital expenditure inherent in the school's purpose and/or pedagogy. If the Board of Directors established school money based on a spending framework of more than 1/8 in excess of the level of public school expenditure to which it is natural to compare, approval by the Ministry is required.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e3230	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 9, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 7-2 Supervision, etc. is replaced by the following: SOMETHING is to supervise schools approved by this law and private schools approved by the Law of Education § 2-12, and in that context they must have access to schools and documentation.If there are any contradictions to this law or regulation given by law, NOKUT may order corrections.NOKUT informs the Ministry that in the absence of corrections, or that approval is to be withdrawn with the corresponding loss of public funding, parental authority has the authority to exercise parental supervision at the school by elected representatives. The report of parental supervision shall be dealt with by the school’s board of directors. The Board of Parents may also send a report from its own oversight to the public oversight body.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e3295	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e3305	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e3325	B, C and D shall be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e3332	During the debate, Mr Reikvam put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e3381	The President here will vote on the proposal from the Socialist Left to sections 3 to 3. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 29 November 1996 72 on petroleum activities, § 3-3 is replaced by the following: An extraction permit grants exclusive exploration and exploration of petroleum deposits in areas covered by the permit. The rightholder becomes the owner of the petroleum produced, if the Storting adopts a plan for the expansion of the operation of the petroleum deposits.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e3399	President! I voted incorrectly, I should have voted in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e3406	The proposal by the Socialist Left is then 65 to 10 votes not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e3476	The Socialist Left Party has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e3603	The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e3632	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e3642	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower-2.ana.ud1806e3653	There is no record.
