ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-20.ana.ud1848e26	The representative Karin S. Woldseth, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Sverre Myrli, Mette Korsrud and Harald Espelund For Uppland County: Reidun Gravedahl For Troms County: Leif Christian Johansen A number of permit applications are available: from the representative of Gunn Karin Gjul on maternity leave from 20 May onwards and from 20 May onwards from the representatives of Øyvind Korsberg, Hallgeir H. Langeland, Ingmar Liones and Siri A. Meling on maternity leave from 20 May until 22 May to take part in the Ministerial Conference of Environment in Kiev from 22 May to the Delegation of the OSCE Parliamentary Delegation, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Mr Bjørn Hernæs. The application concerns leave on 21 and 22 May of the representatives of Thore A. Nistad and Christopher Stensaker to attend the Fourth Parliamentary Conference on the Stability Pact for South-East Europe, in Brussels of the representative of Finn Martin Vallersnes on leave on 21 and 22 May to attend the Fourth Parliamentary Conference on the Stability Pact in South-East Europe, in Brussels of the representative of André Kakkestad on leave from 22 May to 26 May to take part in the election of the Council of Europe during the parliamentary elections in Armenia. These applications are rejected immediately and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the county of Hordaland, Pål Kårbø, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the mandate of the representative of Ingmar Liones from 20 May to 22 May, for welfare reasons, and from other alternates of the county of Rogaland, Elin Schanche, to be exempted from meeting under the representative Siri A. Melings leave on 21 and 22 May, due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Akershus County: Harald Espelund For Hordaland County: Erlend Nornes and Kari Sørheim For Uppland County: Morten Ørsal Johansen For Rogaland County: Ingrid Fiskaa, Inger Lise Aarrestad and Jostein Wallem Rovik For Troms County: Per-Willy Amundsen For South-Trondelag County: Hanne Dyveke Søttar Hagen and Ola Røtvei3. Kari Sørheim, Morten Ørsal Johansen, Per-Willy Amundsen and Hanne Dyveke Søttar Hagen are elected to the Laging House for the time they meet the representatives of Ingmar Liones, Thore A. Nistad, Øyvind Korsberg and Christopher Stensaker respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-20.ana.ud1848e158	Kari Sørheim, Ingrid Fiskaa, Inger Lise Aarrestad, Per-Willy Amundsen and Ola Røtvej are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-20.ana.ud1848e166	The representative of Arne Sortevik will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-20.ana.ud1848e169	I have the pleasure of making two suggestions. One is on behalf of the representatives Ursula Evje, Ulf Erik Knudsen and myself to introduce optional side objectives to primary and secondary school. The second proposal is on behalf of Ursula Evje and myself on measures to ensure the legal certainty of pupils and parents in relation to training and school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-20.ana.ud1848e178	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-20.ana.ud1848e192	The Audit Committee has examined the National Audit Office’s report on the planning and follow-up of major road installations in the State Road Administration. The aim of this audit has been to examine whether the planning process, project follow-up and resource allocation are organised in a way that will promote effective project implementation. The report is based on five specific projects: The Triangle Connection, E16 Aurland–Lærdal, Rv 555 Nygårdstangen–Gyldenpris, E134 Drammen–Mjøndalen and Rv 159 Knatten–Vigernes. The study concludes that on all of these projects there were significant exceedances in relation to cost estimates, some actually exceeding 40 pst. more expensive than initially assumed in planning. The National Audit Office has concluded that these problems can be largely linked to the lack of cost estimates and a lack of planning basis at the design stage. In addition, there have been in-progress adjustments in processes, resulting in delays and increased costs. These redeployments have often been achieved after the involvement of municipalities affected by the road projects, and they could have been avoided if the planning process had been fully completed before the projects were started. These problems have been further exacerbated by the lack of an appropriate economic management tool for development projects by the State Road Service. There is little final report on completed projects, which has made it difficult to draw up experience data and experience that could be useful in the design and planning of new projects. In its examination of this matter, the Committee held a verification hearing in which the Minister for Transport, the Road Manager, the Road Director, former Ministers for Transport and the Transport Economic Institute took part. The Committee is of the opinion that the Riksrevision report provides very useful information on the planning and follow-up of such projects, and the Committee stresses the importance of helping to improve the quality assurance and implementation of future projects in the state road system. In the Committee’s examination of the case, there has been a strong focus on the large cost exceedances that have been identified – this being, of course, very unfortunate in terms of cost exceedances in general, but also in particular because large exceedances in a project could have a major impact on the implementation and progress of other projects. This is very unfortunate and could result in long-term planning, among other things. in national transport plan, not based on realistic conditions. In this context, the Committee has addressed the Minister of Transport, who was asked to explain what concrete measures will be taken to reduce the possibility of such large exceedances in the future. In the reply letter from the Council of State, it was confirmed that several of the measures, such as: The National Audit Office has pointed out that it is absent and will be launched. In this context, particular mention may be made of the introduction of a dedicated project management tool to allow the use of experience figures from projects already carried out. The Council of State further refers to the reorganization carried out in the State Road Service, with a clearer distinction between the construction function and the construction function. This is an important measure in this way. With regard to this reorganisation, the Committee agrees that it can facilitate project management, but also stresses that, of course, there is not enough reorganisation alone. In this context, the Committee calls for the Storting to be kept informed of the progress and outcome of this reorganisation, and in particular whether the desired impact in terms of project management and cost control is achieved. In the examination of this matter, the Committee has also focused its attention on the question of whether the human resources available to the State Road Administration have sufficient competence to project and carry out such comprehensive projects. The consultation revealed that project exceedances do not have a direct impact on the persons who have managed the projects, except that in the long term, efforts are being made to clarify what is good for each employee to carry out and that the allocation of new and future tasks will thus have an impact on past results. In the Committee, the Progress Party has been of the opinion that it would not be unnatural for large exceedances to have a more direct personnel impact on the managers responsible for such projects. The Progress Party therefore supports proposals that the Government should consider introducing legislation with exceedances of more than 25 pst. could have a direct personnel impact on those responsible for the calculations. Furthermore, the Committee has noted that all major projects with a cost-frame of more than 500 million. kr shall be subjected to an external quality assurance procedure before they are started. In this context, the Committee would stress that this quality assurance does not, of course, relieve the Road Directorate and the Road Administration of the responsibilities of these departments. A majority of the Committee points out that the Riksrevision also raises clear questions as to whether the State Road Administration has had the necessary focus on the environmental aspects of the development projects. In this way, the majority of the Committee is pleased that the Road Director stated during the hearing that good environmental competence has been built up and that the department cooperates with the County Environmental Protection Department in such cases. Furthermore, the Committee is pleased that the Council of State, by letter to the Committee, states that the procedures and treatment of environmental issues have been strengthened. Finally, I address the minority proposal of the Advance Party, which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-20.ana.ud1848e228	The representative of Henrik Rød has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-20.ana.ud1848e231	At my discretion, this Riksrevisions audit report is a very important document, because learning from past experiences and past mistakes is important in order to avoid making the same mistakes in the future. For the 2002-2011 planning period, congestion and government are planning to build a road worth more than DKK 60 billion based on the current national transport plan. Just to get more money back in the years to come, it is important that the knowledge that can be drawn from this project should involve all actors, both in bureaucracy and in political bodies. There are, as the rapporteur was concerned, five projects which have been examined in particular. These are not necessarily a representative sample of the projects adopted and implemented in the 1990s, but are based on projects where the cost framework is large and where the exceedance is particularly high. These five projects had a total cost framework for building start-up decisions of at least NOK 4 billion. The total cost of these five projects is over NOK 2 billion, which is over 50 pst. average exceedance. For some of the projects, the cost overrun is at 70 p.m., and it's dramatic. I believe that there would in no way be any exaggeration to characterize this as a scandal – in many ways. Because if we look at this in a perspective, if we see it in relation to the annual discussions, the arguments, the batches in between here in the house, in the context of the budgetary procedure e.g., where weeks and months are spent arguing about a lot less money than this, then there is every reason to take over and learn from what the Riksrevision findings tell us. First of all, this tells us that the Storting often makes decisions on a failed basis. Nor is it unreasonable to assume that several of these projects might not have been prioritised, at least not at the time they were adopted, if more correct cost figures had been on the table. Projects that appear to be cheap at the level end up as very expensive, and so you can manage to snuck in the queue. Another serious consequence is that the decisions and priorities taken by the Storting in, for example: National transport plan context must be set aside or specific projects must be postponed for many years because the exceedances of previously adopted projects must be covered. That is a very serious consequence. Actually, this whole report should be mandatory reading for all those who are working on transport issues – also here in the house. So I am happy to see that at least some of the Committee on Transport are present, because this should be mandatory reading also for the Committee on Transport. With regard to the proposal for the Progress Party, in relation to the personnel implications, I think it is a little too light, in the sense that it suggests that there is a clear link between the work of an individual and the efforts of a project and the exceedances. One cannot simply assume that these exceedances we're talking about here, or others in other projects, are due to the project manager, for example. has neglected. On the contrary, the Riksrevision report points out that the causes are many, and that it is not by no means such that one can rely on the causes of individuals in the system. When, for example: It is difficult to claim that a responsible project manager has to be held responsible for it, for example: Local authorities have suddenly wanted to do things differently from what was the basis for the adoption of the project. I am also very pleased that a unanimous committee agrees that from 1 January 2003, the new organisation of the State Road Service, with a clearer distinction between construction function and development, with the accumulation of key competences in fewer units, could contribute to ensuring quality in a much better way than in previous organisation. It is a very important conclusion of a unanimous Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. Not least in the light of what political discussion has been about the reorganization of the state road system, we note it with interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-20.ana.ud1848e248	The President will comment on the representative Engeset that although some newspapers probably agree with him in the way of expression, the usual thing in this house is that one negotiates, not that one argues about matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-20.ana.ud1848e251	I too must commend the Riksrevision for the report. And I see that both the Council of State and the Road Administration seem to add up to improvements. There is no reason to be skeptical about the reasons why there have been so many exceedances, despite the fact that there are some explanations here. Among other things, a larger Danish study of international transport projects shows that neither the civil engineering budgets nor traffic forecasts have been examined more precisely over the 70 years of budgetary deviation. This can be read in the Traffic Economics Institute’s working paper ‘Testing large investments in the transport sector’. It may seem that many projects are sacred cows, and are to be driven through costing what it costs. Exceedances do not give rise to the same frights as exceedances in other areas of society. Among other things, former State Council Dag Jostein Fjærvoll told in the hearing that the lobbying activity is quite massive for these projects. And we who have worked in the state policy of Hordaland have named these lobbyists. "Asphalt Alliance" we call them. At the same hearings, the Transport Economic Institute said that when a project is under way, it appears that it is difficult to reverse it despite the fact that new information is coming up. So there's quite a lot of achievement associated with some of these projects. One explanation of the exceedances may be that it is a strategic under-budget to get through a controversial project. I have to admit that that idea has struck me many times when controversial road projects have been up for political treatment. The representative Martin Engeset said it a little milder, but I realized he was talking about the exact same thing. This type of hypothesis cannot be verified unless projects are subject to systematic verification and research. The road investments examined by the Riksrevision are partly disputed projects, such as: The three-way connection in the West. There are complicated projects, we have to admit that. But the more important it is that the planning work must be thorough in advance. And if there's something this report shows, it's that the processing hasn't been good enough. The road director said during the hearing that an important lesson is that early start-ups are very easy. He even admitted that several projects were started before they should have actually been started. SV considers that it is necessary to put an end to the operation of installations before the regulatory plan and construction plan for road installations are available and that cooperation with the municipalities responsible for the planning needs to be improved. This issue is not just about cost-cutting, but about planning and follow-up, and it is about putting road investment into a social perspective. One needs to look more closely at the effects of road investment – the environment, road safety, documented impacts on business, etc. The National Audit Office states in the report that a greater degree of holisticity that goes beyond purely technical issues would be of the good. The National Audit Office also questions whether the State Road Service has had an adequate focus on the environmental aspects of these projects. In this connection, the majority points to the Directorate for Nature Management's Letter to the Ministry of Transport of 1992, which mentions the Triangle Connection: ‘This is a case in which it is clear that there are environmentally friendly alternatives, but where one has chosen a solution with serious environmental impacts.’ Both the Road Director and the Council of State have stated that the procedures for dealing with environmental issues should be strengthened. The majority expect the preparation of environmental considerations to be emphasised in the choice of transport investments, including road solutions. It is therefore a requirement in national policy guidelines for coordinated land and transport planning that this should be done. That's exactly what needs to be tightened up. Why? Indeed, because one needs to see whether it is appropriate, including from an environmental point of view, to invest in other traffic solutions, including: in public transport. So it has to end thinking that just one builds a lot of roads, it's going to end the traffic crates around the big cities. All experience shows on the contrary that the sower reaps car traffic. It's not unique here in Norway, it's an experience you've done all over the world. Some of the problem is that public transport is assessed on the basis of economic premises, while road projects are assessed on the basis of socio-economic premises, as the Transport Economic Institute also stated in the hearings. In Bergen – to take a local example – the Ringveg west should be built to take off for road traffic. The project has been subject to impact assessments, and strangely, all alternative models of road investment relating to public transport are the worst. Then there must be something about the models that are used, that they are not good enough. It was also confirmed by the Transport Economic Institute. We have been concerned that, from now on, all new road investment will be subject to environmental audit and impact assessment if there are old plans. Once again, there is a horror example from Bergen of how it can be done when the priest is advised: the waterline has been built out, based on 22-year-old plans, with no new impact assessment – despite being one of Bergen’s most air-polluted areas, despite the fact that several cars on a four-field road will create more traffic into the centre. There's something about seeing this in a whole. I assume that the Minister for Transport will make sure that this is the last time projects are drummed through from old plans and without having been through environmental audits, or that other traffic solutions have been assessed, as required by national policy guidelines. The report shows that there has been a major failure in the transfer of experience from the road projects that have been completed, and it thinks you should do something about it. That's good. Because when a project has been completed, it has been completed. Overall final reports have been presented to a small extent. SV agrees with the Transport Economic Institute that a knowledge base related to a project that has been completed must be an integral part of the project and/or part of the investment frame of the State Road Administration, precisely because it is crucial to gain experience through projects that have been carried out and it is necessary to study their impact. We are also involved in a note that we see that the reorganisation that has been done can be good, but we have to look at the effect of it as well. I note that the Minister for Transport has great expectations for the reorganisation. It may well have been a trick – we support it in the comment – among other things. by pooling competences. But I want to say that it must be crucial which competence you collect. One needs to make more sure that one has the competence to see transport investments from a social point of view and not just have the competence to build a road. The representative Martin Engeset said that the report should be a mandatory reading for the Committee on Transport. I agree, on the basis of what was experienced during the budgetary procedure before Christmas. All investments over 500 million. kr shall be assessed by an independent expertise, but the majority of the Stortinget have decided to start investing in Lofast without the completion of this impact assessment. So yes, we have to sharpen some each.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-20.ana.ud1848e290	I shouldn't have said whether I'm sharp or not, but at least I think the report from the Riksrevision is a useful review of an important area of society. Of course, on behalf of the Workers' Party, I am agreed in the comments on the majority of the Committee. I'm glad that the comments are quite forward-looking, because that's essentially what we can learn from this in the future, which is the important thing. And I am pleased with the record from the hearing, which showed that both the Road Director and the Council of State take this seriously. This would ensure that there will be fewer such excesses in the future. So there's a lot of reasons there's going to be overruns. There may be some changes, just reveal things that you have to change in the process you have started, where it will be too stupid to let it go, and it will cost more because there is something else to do. A certain degree of flexibility must exist for such situations. The second is that when there are completely unexpected conditions, it is clear that there may be a lack of competence. If that is the reason, it is now permitted to do something about it and to strengthen its competence. But I have to say that when I listen to the representative Engeset, it seems almost as if he reads in the report and in the setting that someone has deliberately sub-budgeted to get through the project. I can't read what's coming out. It can well be interpreted this way, and the last speaker can also be interpreted so that one can assume that at least one does not set the price tag too high. And of course, we can't have it that way that a subterfuge is a project, the same how good it is. There must be realistic numbers that are on the table when we get it presented. Then it has been said – and most recently in the plural setting – that now we are separating the builder and builder function better, and it will be better. The goal of all of this is to get more money out of the way. In this context, I would like to say that the most important thing is that we get more money, not that we get another kind of bureaucracy for the money. The most important thing, I feel, is that we don't need to use so many resources on offer papers, on tendering processes, on selecting tenderers, on checking them, and on checking them afterwards, that we actually don't get any more money. What will show – in one year, in two years, in three years’ time – if this reform is successful, is that we actually get more money.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-20.ana.ud1848e303	The committee's proceedings have been thoroughly dealt with by the case-speaker, so that I do not. In summary, a review of such a large, comprehensive project as this will always be useful. If we compare these projects that we have reported on, and other previously implemented plants, there are many similarities when it comes to factors that cause the economic framework to crack. One of these moves is that planning is done in good time and below. In other words, changes that come along are a safe cost driver. There is still a section to fetch in this area. I mean to read out this report, and not least the one we had, both with the road director and with the state councils – the current state council and the two former state councils – that early planning, i.e. being ahead of the development pace, seems to be a key. In my view, a plan bench in each state had been an advantage. In this way, any changes to the plans could have occurred at an earlier stage, and the risk of overshooting would have been smaller. If the reorganization of the state road system from 1 January 2003 will have an impact on this situation, we will see. With the report that we are dealing with today, at the bottom, a review, when some time has passed, will clarify whether the reorganisation has had the effect that one of the parties has claimed. One aspect that was clear through the hearing was the methods used in the state road system to develop the best skills for planning. It was explained from the point of view of the guide that a target group brought out people in the field of the tasks on which the individual had interest and special competence. This way, over time, a planning team of high standards will be able to come forward. For my part, I think this is a method that is clearly preferable to the proposal in the position of the Progress Party, to introduce a new code that opens up to punish someone who does not work in the planning work. When it concerns the environmental aspect of road installations in general, it must be said that there has been a marked improvement over many years. Some years ago, something called the ‘Vacre Road Price’ was introduced. This price has probably led in many ways to many planners and entrepreneurs being – let's say – artists when it comes to building with nature and not against nature. Here I would like to say that the competences that have been transferred from the time a user worked manually, until the methods that a user uses today, with machine walling, among other things, have been striking. There's a lot of good results. There is a short and very fabulous amount of work that has been done around, which is of very good quality. The fact that the environmental aspect can be taken even better in the product than it is today is easy to sign.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-20.ana.ud1848e316	The centre party does not have a member of the control and constitution committee, so I want to make a few brief comments on the vote. I would like to begin by saying that the Centre Party can join many of the comments made by the Committee in the setting. I have read with interest the Riksrevision's report and the minutes of the hearings carried out by the Committee. Several road projects have had some significant exceedances, and it is clear that measures must be put in place to prevent such large exceedances in the future. For Storting, it is decisive that we get the necessary and correct basis for making decisions. I have noticed that the Minister for Transport, by letter to the Committee, has done well for actions that have already been undertaken or are to be launched, in order to reduce budget overruns in the future. This is positive. It is also important that a continuous process is carried out, so that one always focuses on the best possible tools and procedures for working with small and large projects. At the same time, it is important to be aware, as also appeared in the hearings of the Committee in this case, that the causes of the exceedances are many, and the causality varies from project to project. Some exceedances may probably be included in the 'unsatisfaction' group because of geography and geology, which may give surprises even if the processing has been successful. Other overruns should then absolutely be averted in the planning phase. As has also been shown in the Committee's work on this matter, the excesses on road, tunnel and bridge projects are not strange. This is to a large extent also happening in other countries, although there is no great comfort for us. But it shows that there may be a general lack of good enough tools for this work. As a result, it is important that work continues to be done to improve the existing tools, and it is crucial for the future project that it is willing to implement the tools and methods that can reduce the excess. I also have the impression that this is the case both from the department and from the vegetarians. I will not go into all the measures in question in this context, but I will comment on a couple. In my view, there is one lesson we can learn from the work we have had on a number of projects, and that is that the work must not be started until control plans are adopted. Many of these premises will be made during the work on the regulatory plans, and decisions on the launch of road projects will have to be based on agreed regulatory plans. Putting this at the bottom is probably one of the easiest steps to take, except that there are enough impatient people around the city waiting for their projects to start. The second point I want to comment on is the reorganisation of the manufacturing part of the state road system. I have noticed that in the hearing the Minister for Transport stated that she feared it would implement the reorganisation would provide more efficiency and savings. I am pleased that the Council of State used the word "faithful" in its answer, because at that time it is very much a question of doubt and faith. The reorganization process was initiated less than half a year ago, and the effect is too soon to be determined. What I so strongly believe we should be aware of in connection with the reorganisation that has taken place in the State Road Administration is that the new company Mesta can easily become an actor among other large entrepreneurship companies. Developments in the construction sector have been that we have gradually received few large entrepreneurs. It is also the same entrepreneurs operating in Norway and Sweden. In such a situation, correction is important. Without correction, – I stress can – few, large companies can also be price-pressing, and I hope that the Council of State and others working on the transport project are aware of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-20.ana.ud1848e337	Most of it has been said in this debate. Large road projects tend to cost a lot more than what was foreseen when it all started. But this does not only apply to roads and installations. Large-scale projects that one throws at in a society tend to be more expensive than what was supposed to be. We see that these exceedances are due to a wide range of very complex conditions that emerge along the way. Building a road is quite gigantic to throw with, and especially in a country with that topography, etc. That's what we have. Different authorities also have a function in relation to such a project. As mentioned above, it is the municipalities that sit as a regulatory authority and regulate as the project progresses – not least because of impatience in this room to get things done. All of this is part of the total picture. There's a lot of cuts in the ocean along the way. We also have new technologies, new knowledge and new experience that will improve the situation in the future. It'll be better and better what we're doing. But it's probably very important that the Riksrevision and the Storting follow up and follow up on what's going on in these big projects, so that we're systematically better at getting this reasonably well in place. Norway is a small country. That means that the different projects we have have a small environment to address. As the representative Ringstad said instead, there are a few entrepreneurs who can get involved with the huge projects. It could be one of the conditions that are involved in the total price you get here. There is a need to improve the management system along the way in the projects; there is a need to identify models and systems that allow a more realistic grip on the price before embarking on large projects. I have the feeling that we're in the process of and on the right track in most areas of society. What is absolutely crucial for us to be aware of is that when a project gets a large exceedance, there is not only a greater cost to this project, but it also means that other projects are postponed on time, changed or perhaps added completely. The fact that we don't have good enough systems for this can mean that the plans and assumptions laid down here in this house may not be fully feasible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-20.ana.ud1848e354	In its study, the National Audit Office has highlighted the planning and implementation of major road projects. I want to start by stressing that the National Audit Office has done an important job with this study and focused on key areas of improvement for both the Road Service and the Ministry of Transport. As Minister of Transport, this is something I take very seriously. At the same time, I think there is reason to highlight the great progress that has been made since the projects that the Riksrevision has analysed were started. I want to draw four ratios here in particular. Firstly, all road projects exceed 500 million. kr, are now subject to external quality assurance before they are taken up for the award of the size. A number of projects have already been through this process, with the aim of producing the best possible estimate of the cost of the project and how the project should be managed in order not to exceed the estimate. Secondly, the reorganisation of the State Road Service from 1 January this year means that what was previously the Vegvesen’s own production activity is separated into a separate State limited liability company, Mesta AS. It provides a clear distinction between management and production — which provides a more professional construction function, and helps to strengthen the management of costs and project implementation. The division of management into five regions contributes in the same direction. By pooling competence in planning and project implementation at regional level, a few stronger disciplines in, for example: project management. Thirdly, increased emphasis is now placed on project planning, implementation and cost management. Among other things, this year the Swedish Road Administration has introduced a new and improved project management tool. Therefore, in conjunction with new and revised manuals, many of the Court’s observations will be taken into account. In addition, Vegvesen is now seeking to get project management on major projects in place at least one year before plant start. Fourth, the Vegvessen has strengthened the procedures for dealing with environmental issues in order to clarify as far as possible these conditions in the regulatory plan or impact assessment. Lack of environmental considerations and studies were, as is well known, one of the topics identified by the Riksrevision as critical in the report. Overall, with this background, I expect future projects to have a much better cost development than the one that has been the case for the projects that the Riksrevision has analysed. An indication of this is that the excess cost of road projects on a national basis now shows a clear downward trend, based on the annual budgetary analyses of the State Road Service. The change in cost estimates for road projects opened for traffic in 2002 was 6.4 pst, while the corresponding figure for the previous year was 11.2 pst. There will always be pressure from different interest groups to launch new road projects as soon as possible. In order to avoid overshooting of costs, it is important that a project to be funded has a revised estimate of costs and that good financing plans have been developed. I am very pleased that a joint committee in this setting places great emphasis on these elements, and hope that in the future we can stand firm on such a consistent line when lobbyism in individual matters is strong. I think we'll be honest enough to say that it'll probably never be possible to guard against uncertainty and cost increases when it comes to building roads in a country that has such a complicated geography that we have in Norway. I would like to stress that project management and cost control are a continuous and dynamic process, one in which an ongoing search for improvement points has to be made. Although much positive has happened in recent years, I expect the Vegvesen to continue to improve systems and procedures, to follow cost developments closely and to use all available tools to keep costs increases to a minimum. At the same time, as Minister of Transport and the responsible State Council of the Vegvesen, I must have a constant pressure on this in my overall management of the department. And last but not least: both government and grossing up must have enough ice in their stomach to not start a single major road project until we have the best possible overview of both costs and funding. If we do that, we will not only ensure ourselves against new issues of the kind we are dealing with today, but also ensure that all taxpayers and road users get the most out of the money. I think we owe it to the inhabitants of this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-20.ana.ud1848e378	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-20.ana.ud1848e386	The size will now go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-20.ana.ud1848e393	During the debate, the representative, Mr Rød, raised a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to consider introducing a regulation which may have a human resources impact on the manager, who is responsible for approving cost calculations, if there are exceedances of more than 25 pst.’
