ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e55	The representatives Morten Höglund and Ivar Østberg, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. A number of permit applications are available: from 13 February onwards and until further notice from the Right-wing Group on the Welfare Permit of the Representative, Ms Åre Konradsen, from 17 February to 20 February, from the representatives of Gunhild Øyang and Michael Momyr, on leave on 18 and 19 February, both to attend a conference at Wilton Park in the United Kingdom, from the representative of Finn Martin Vallersnes, on leave on 18 and 19 February, respectively, to attend a conference of parliamentarians on the WTO in Geneva and a meeting with the European Parliament delegation on relations with Norway in Brussels. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Rogaland County: Inger Lise Aarrestad For Troms County: Anna Amdal Fyhn For Nord-Trøndelag County: Tone Løwe For South-Trøndelag County: Ola Røtvej and Anne Kathrine Slungård3. Ola Røtvej and Anne Kathrine Slungård are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Gunhild Øyang and Michael Momyr.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e120	Tone Lion is present and will take the seat. The representative of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e125	On behalf of the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland and myself, I would like to make a proposal to set a low maximum limit on what the electricity network lease can do to stimulate power savings and provide a better social distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e130	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e142	The international situation is more uncertain than for a long time. Many people are deeply concerned. The UN has given Iraq a last chance to comply with the international community's demand for the abolition of weapons of mass destruction. The time for this last chance is not over, but the danger of war is certainly present. I understand and share the anxiety this creates. It is important that we all continue to hold on to the fact that the use of military power is not inevitable. It will continue to be the government's policy to do everything possible to achieve a peaceful solution to the conflict. Today, the Iraq issue will be the dominant issue, but in this my annual statement I will also have to mention other international issues that are important to Norway. Several of the parties at Stortinget have asked me to provide further information on the WTO negotiations, the implications for Norway of the EU and NATO enlargements and the ever closer cooperation between them, as well as our main experience of membership of the Security Council. I would also like to mention briefly the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians and the efforts to resolve the serious nuclear pollution problems in north-west Russia. But I start with what's in everyone's mind: the current situation with regard to Iraq, and the handling of the matter in the Security Council. Iraq is led by a particularly brutal dictator. Saddam Hussein's regime is notorious for its massive violations of human rights. Twice Iraq has invaded neighboring countries. In two conflicts, Iraq has used weapons of mass destruction. Chemical weapons were used several times in the second half of the 1980s against Kurds in Northern Iraq and in the war against Iran. Several thousand lives were lost. Against the international community, the regime has been based on denials and lies. But despite Iraqi attempts at cat and mouse tactics, international weapons inspectors in the 1990s managed to find and destroy a lot of weapons of mass destruction. However, in 1998 the UN Secretary-General found it necessary to withdraw the inspectors without adequate answers to a number of serious questions. These answers are still missing. The international community has repeated that it will not close its eyes to the threat it poses. The UN's demands to Iraq following the release of Kuwait have therefore remained unchanged for over 11 years: the uncertainty as to whether Iraq has weapons of mass destruction must be eliminated and the country must not be allowed to acquire new ones. In order to achieve this objective, Iraq has been subject to sanctions since 1991 to prevent the development of new weapons of mass destruction and to requirements for inspections to verify that the country disposes of what it needs from such weapons and weapons programmes. This forms the basis for the United Nations approach to Iraq and is confirmed in a wide range of binding Security Council decisions. Resolution 1441 of the Security Council of 8 November 2002 therefore confirms and reinforces long-term and binding requirements. The resolution provides the regime in Baghdad with the last opportunity to comply with UN requirements. The head of UNMOVIC, Hans Blix, and IAEA Director-General Mohamed El Baradei briefed the UN Security Council on 27 January on inspections carried out in Iraq since 27 November last year. The presentations were more disturbing than I expected. The inspectors have pointed out that on several important points they have only received incomplete answers from Iraq, leaving serious, unanswered questions. Three examples of such unanswered questions were given: Firstly, there is no satisfactory explanation from the Iraqi authorities as to what has happened to 6,500 unused chemical bombs from the war on Iran. These may contain about 1 000 tonnes of chemical fighting material – 1 000 tonnes that are not known where! Secondly, it is unclear what has happened to 8 500 litres of anthrax-induced substances previously reported by Iraq. Thirdly, there is considerable uncertainty about Iraq’s rocket systems. The inspectors have indications that Iraq has produced rockets in violation of the UN directives and that they have a wider range than the 150-km limit set by the United Nations. In addition, UN weapons inspectors have stated that the uncertainty associated with Iraq’s weapons of mass destruction is due solely to a lack of Iraqi cooperation with the inspectors, even though the authorities have technically facilitated inspections. Iraq obviously still does not realise that it is indispensable to provide complete documentation in accordance with what is expressly stated in Resolution 1441 that it is obliged to do. The really worrying question is: if Iraq has nothing to hide, why do its authorities not cooperate to the satisfaction of the inspectors and the Security Council? Supplementary documentation was presented correctly during Blix' and El Baradei's last visit to Baghdad last weekend, without this seem to have changed significantly the criticisms of the inspectors towards Iraq. I assume that the inspectors in their statements in the Security Council tomorrow will come to a close on this. It is important that international society maintains the political and diplomatic pressure on the regime in Iraq. Iraqis still have time and opportunity to take advantage of this last chance to comply with the demands of the international community. But it's starting to rush. The responsibility and the burden of proof lies entirely on Iraq. In practice, the country must demonstrate its willingness to comply with Resolution 1441 and to cooperate fully with the weapons inspectors. But it remains to be seen whether the regime in Baghdad will be willing to do this. We must not forget that, since 1991, Iraq has failed to comply with the binding decisions of the Security Council and has done what they have been able to do to prevent the investigation of weapons inspectors. Nor should we forget that it was only after the speech of the President of the United States on 12 September that Saddam Hussein agreed to resume his cooperation with the United Nations. It was only after Secretary of State Colin Powell gave his speech to the Security Council on 5 February this year that the regime said it was willing to make further concessions to the inspectors. The experience is that the regime in Baghdad must be put under strong pressure before it is willing to cooperate. It was a thorough statement by Minister of Foreign Affairs Powell made in the Security Council on 5 February. With its scale and detail, this was a statement we can't close our eyes to. Someone said that Powell's statement did not contain anything new. Well, at least I didn't know about all of this, nor had I seen the information put together in such a way before. But the crucial thing is not whether the information is new, but whether it is correct. As far as I can see, there are just objections to a few of the points in his full account. It is positive that the United States has provided further evidence of possible Iraqi weapons of mass destruction. Such information has just been requested by Norway and other countries. The sum of the documentation and information presented by the United States in the UN Security Council is based on the findings of the arms inspectors that Iraq has not provided the UN with full information. I assume that the weapons inspectors are now reviewing and assessing more closely the information provided by the American side and reporting back to the Security Council. The next few days and weeks will be crucial for the further development of Iraq. We are facing a very serious situation and must be prepared that the United States and the United Kingdom, with the support of several other countries, will be willing to put power behind the demands if the regime in Baghdad does not cooperate fully. Preparations for military actions are ongoing, as we all know, too fully. But let me reiterate that the issue of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction has not been resolved in the Security Council. All diplomatic and political instruments have not yet been exhausted. I noticed that Secretary of State Powell, in his statement to the Security Council, stated that the Council had not written Resolution 1441 to go to war, but to maintain peace – to give Iraq a last chance. Powell showed a clear willingness to continue to hold on to the UN track. This is positive and in line with the Norwegian position that the Security Council is responsible for dealing with the Iraq issue and for maintaining international peace and security. For the Government, it is still imperative to contribute to the abolition of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction without the use of military power. The Government therefore considers that the case needs to be re-examined by the UN Security Council, based on the reports of the weapons inspectors. The way in which the world society acts must be anchored in decisions of the Security Council, which will be the basis for further consideration by the Government. However, Norway must take its own stand, but of course within the framework set by a binding decision of the Security Council for all UN Member States. Both at the time Norway was a member of the Security Council and later the Government has consistently maintained that it is the UN track to follow. This is not an expression of a paralysis of action, but it is a basic choice we have taken from the role of the Security Council given by the international community. What does this mean in practice? Firstly, through Resolution 1441, we have put a considerable pressure on the regime in Baghdad, not least because the resolution explicitly states that the lack of cooperation on the part of Iraq could have the most serious consequences for the country. We have not wanted to weaken the pressure on Saddam Hussein by concluding before the Security Council has had the case for a new treatment. Secondly, it means that weapons inspectors must be given time and opportunity to do the job they are going to do and that they must be given all possible support, as requested by both UNMOVIC and the IAEA. After seeing today's media lookups, I would like to remind you again that it was just along these lines that I stated after the inspectors submitted their first report on 27 January this year. We must make every constructive proposal that can contribute to a peaceful solution to the conflict, provided that Iraq cooperates. Thirdly, the decision on the road shall remain with the Security Council. This shall be based on the best possible factual basis. The basis must be in place before the Security Council makes difficult choices about the way forward. Some have claimed that this is a vague attitude. That's wrong. The choice made, however, means that we can't, will or should cross some bridges before we get to the river. The weapons inspectors will report to the Security Council again tomorrow. Without clear indications that Iraq will be ready to actively cooperate with the weapons inspectors and meet the demands of the Security Council in full and without delay, we will face a very serious situation. However, it would not be right for me to speculate in advance what the Security Council will ultimately conclude with. But let me repeat: it is important that all dangerous roads to a solution without the use of military means are tested. And let me repeat again: the most dangerous road is the authorities in Baghdad with the port key to: they can comply with the UN regulations. I feel the need to also say a few words about the treatment of Iraq in NATO. Allied consultations are concerned with safeguarding the security interests of Turkey. Turkey feels its security threatened by Iraq if it were to break out acts of war, and has therefore used its rights as a NATO member to bring this issue before the Council of NATO. These are exclusively defensive preparedness measures which in no way prejudge the work of the UN Security Council on the abolition of Iraq’s weapons of mass destruction. It is worth noting that the distinction in allied views on the planning of such defensive preparedness measures does not go across the Atlantic. While 14 European allies have been associated with the United States and Canada for an early decision, only Germany, France and Belgium have taken a different view. And the dividing line that had to go is going across Europe. For Norway, maintaining alliance solidarity is of course of the utmost importance. I therefore hope that it will be possible to reach a NATO decision as quickly as possible. Matters of importance for international peace and security shall be dealt with by the UN Security Council and decisions must be based on the UN Charter and applicable international law. This has been fundamental for us in dealing with the Iraq issue as well as in other matters we were presented as members of the Security Council. For us, it's of utmost importance not to rock this principle. The collective security system resulting from the UN Charter must not be undermined. Although the five permanent members of the Security Council dominate much of the work of the Council, it is clear from our own two-year membership that the smaller countries also have influence. But it demands the will to deploy the necessary resources. One of the most important experiences of our membership is that good results are usually good and fail to bring together the members of the Council behind the decisions taken. I think I dare say that we contributed to a broad dissatisfaction on the issues that we were giving priority to working on, in the first row of Africa, the Middle East and Afghanistan, as well as the fight against international terrorism and sanctions reform for Iraq. The debates on the Middle East were, as so often before, marked by conflict, but during our Presidency the Council agreed on two important resolutions on the situation in this area. The work on these matters is now to be carried on in other forums. Our role as head of the Iraqi Sanctions Committee gave us a central position in reforming the sanctions. We received broad support for these reforms, which allow the humanitarian needs of the civilian population to be met while being as effective as possible in preventing the regime from developing new weapons of mass destruction. In this work, this government could rely on the valuable work that the previous government had done. Despite this and despite the fact that Iraq can sell unlimited quantities of oil, the UN Food Oil Programme priorities of the regime have made it difficult for large parts of the Iraqi civilian population to have a humanitarian situation. For several years, therefore, Norway has supported a number of humanitarian programmes in Iraq, both through Norwegian non-governmental organisations and through the UN system. Norway also contributes to the UN crisis and preparedness fund. Of course, we are closely following the humanitarian situation in Iraq. Should developments so be, we, together with the UN, other international organisations and Norwegian non-governmental organisations, will be ready to contribute at short notice. In this context, I would like to remind you that we, together with the voluntary organisations and Norwegian producers of emergency products, have established a specific emergency response system. The conflict between Israelis and Palestinians has recently fallen under the shadow of the attention of the Iraqi conflict. However, a solution to both of these conflicts is an important prerequisite for long-term peaceful development in the region. As a result of our years of commitment, Norway has a co-responsibility for not forgetting this conflict and for the international community to do its utmost to help solve the major challenges facing the Palestinian region. A solution can only be found by the swift start of the realization of the vision of the two states – Israel and Palestine – that can live side by side in peace. As Chairman of the Palestinian International Assistance Committee, AHLC, Norway has called for a donor country meeting in London on the first Tuesday and Wednesday. The main focus of the meeting will be the humanitarian situation among the Palestinians. But, of course, we will also pay great attention to trying to help the actors concerned relaunch the necessary political process as soon as possible. The AHLC meeting will also be followed by a meeting of the international group assisting the Palestinians in their reform work. Here we have actively participated from the Norwegian side, among others. as coordinator of this work locally. Similarly, the so-called Quartet, which consists of special shipments from the United States, Russia, the United Nations and the EU, is planning to be collected in the wake of the AHLC. In this way, the London event will hopefully help to trigger a stronger international political and humanitarian focus on the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians. Economic decline in large parts of the world, financial crises and unemployment combined with pessimism in the further development of the world economy characterises economic news. Both politically and economically, therefore, the need for cross-border cooperation is greater than ever. WTO negotiations can help to remedy this difficult situation. The last time I spoke to the Great Britain about the WTO was before the 4th WTO Ministerial Conference in Doha in November 2001. The Ministerial Conference showed that despite a turbulent world situation — as soon as 11 September — it was possible for 142 Member States to agree on a balanced mandate reflecting the priorities and views of different countries. This was the start of a new round of WTO negotiations. Well one year later, the negotiations are going well. Negotiates, inter alia: on trade in services, agriculture, market access for industrial products including fish and fish products, anti-dumping and subsidies and some aspects of the intellectual property agreement – the so-called TRIPS Agreement. In addition, the special needs of developing countries are being negotiated in the framework of WTO legislation. The current round of negotiations in the WTO shall be completed by 1 January 2005 at the latest. Negotiations are conducted on the principle that nothing has been decided before the decision is taken. This means that the interests in the different areas need to be seen in context. Agriculture is perhaps the most difficult area to negotiate, not least because agricultural production and trade in agricultural products have a social importance that goes far beyond purely economic values. Negotiations are a continuation of the reform initiated during the Uruguay Round. The parties then committed themselves to substantial reductions in customs duties on agricultural products and cuts in agricultural transfers. What we're now negotiating is how big these reductions are going to be. Very many Member States have offensive interests in the agricultural sector. This also applies to many developing countries, which require access to the markets of developed countries and the removal of export aid, but which at the same time want to protect their own markets. However, the parties are very distant from each other, and our initial positions are under strong pressure. We must therefore be prepared to ensure that the outcome of the negotiations can have a significant impact on Norwegian agriculture. Norway has significant offensive interests in terms of market access for industrial products, including fisheries. It is both a matter of removing customs duties and of ensuring a better and more predictable anti-dumping legislation. In the negotiations on the revision of the anti-dumping agreement, our main objective is to help ensure that the agreement cannot be used by other members to arbitrarily exclude Norwegian products from their markets. Service negotiations have largely gone without pain. This is gratifying because the service sector accounts for a significant proportion of the growth in Norwegian exports. Norway therefore has an interest in ensuring better market access for our export companies on the world market. At the same time, the requirements we have received so far are essentially within what we have already implemented nationally. A central principle of the service agreement is that members decide for themselves which obligations they will assume, as the developing countries highlight as the main advantage of the service agreement. In preparation for the negotiations, the requirements of developing countries for specific arrangements in a number of areas were a key issue. As negotiations progress, it becomes increasingly clear that developing countries are not a uniform group. Their offensive and defensive interests vary. The majority of developing countries are interested in agriculture and textiles, while others also have offensive interests in a wide range of industrial products. Norway has implemented duty-free and quota-free market access for all products from the least developed countries. However, the problem for these countries is that they are often unable to meet the quality requirements of many of the importing countries. Assistance is therefore necessary if they are to benefit from the market access they enjoy. In Doha, the declaration on patent rights and public health was a contributing reason for the launch of the mandate for the negotiations. The declaration states that the TRIPS Agreement is neither a barrier nor a barrier to addressing national public health problems. This means, in practice, that in a crisis situation, patent rights can be set aside to enable a country to obtain reasonable medicines by producing them itself. It is now working to find a regulatory framework that will enable the poorest developing countries, too, without their own production capacity, to obtain reasonable medicines. Global interaction is strengthened by and therefore needs to go hand in hand with regional cooperation. No region is currently experiencing as much integration as our own region, Europe. With the historic enlargement decisions at the NATO Summit in Prague in November and the European Union Summit in Copenhagen in December, the last political survivors of the Cold War divide in Europe will be removed. In NATO, accession negotiations are now under way with the seven invited countries and are due to be completed during March. The EU, for its part, has concluded negotiations with 10 future Member States and the accession agreements will be signed in two months' time. Both the EU and NATO will enter into force in May 2004. It'll represent another division of time. The forthcoming enlargements of NATO and the EU will contribute to increased security and stability in Europe. Our common ability to meet today's and tomorrow's challenges will be strengthened. This is why Norway has given its full support to enlargement processes. It is important to maintain the momentum towards pan-European cooperation and stability now achieved. Economic divisions do not automatically disappear even if political divisions are overcome. From the Norwegian side, we therefore welcome the fact that in Copenhagen the EU confirmed the European perspective for Turkey and also the countries of the Western Balkans and renewed its desire to strengthen relations with Russia, Ukraine, Moldova and Belarus. The aim is regional stability and cooperation with support for democratic and economic reforms. It is also gratifying that the European Union Summit in Copenhagen reached an agreement on the participation of allied non-EU countries in EU-led military operations. Our relationship with the EU in the area of security policy is now clearer, and we can look forward to increased cooperation between the EU and NATO on crisis management and conflict resolution. Now that the participant schemes have fallen into place, the agreement on EU access to NATO resources in a crisis situation can also be completed. As a result, we must expect a development in which the EU assumes responsibility for several peacekeeping operations. We must ensure that the participation mechanisms we now have in relation to the EU in the field of defence and security policy meet Norway's needs. Norwegian involvement in various European security and defence policies is an important task for the Government, including: in Macedonia and Bosnia. Finally, I would like to make a brief mention of the developments in our environmental cooperation with Russia. On the environment side, for many years we have been helping to increase the safety of nuclear installations and secure nuclear material and radioactive waste in our large neighbour in the east. Since 11 September 2001, these activities have been brought to a new date. The work on preventing the spread of fissile and radioactive material and the prevention of terrorism has been high on the international agenda. Under our Nuclear Action Plan, we have used considerable resources to secure nuclear material and hazardous sources in Russia. Among other things, we've collected a number of strontium batteries that deliver power to light bulbs in the northern regions. They have very high levels of radiation and can be used to make so-called dirty bombs. We have now also committed ourselves to financing the scrapping of two Russian nuclear submarines. This work will begin in the near future. We are also in contact with the members of the G8 in order to better coordinate our work, with the considerable efforts made by these countries. Common to the challenges I have mentioned in my presentation is that they can only be solved through international cooperation and cooperation, whether global or regional. The government will ensure that Norway continues to take part in this responsibility. For it is in Norway’s national self-interest to work for an international society based on the UN Charter, international law and binding intergovernmental cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e300	The President will propose that the Secretary of State’s statement be discussed at a later meeting. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e316	Norway became a party to the International Eurocontrol Convention on Air Safety in 1993 of 13 December 1960, and since then it has undergone various changes that make it a good tool in the field of air navigation. Eurocontrol has the primary task of being a planning and coordination body for air traffic services and of levying en route charges on behalf of Member States. Today, 31 countries are full members of Eurocontrol, which is the European organisation that holds the expertise and resources necessary to plan complex programmes to improve air traffic in Europe and to monitor their implementation. In these turbulent times, when it is seen in the media that tanks protect Heathrow Airport outside London, and that increased security measures are being implemented at airports around the world, it is important not to forget the normal flight safety between airports. In this context, a common aviation safety code is very important, and the current document we are examining on the ratification of the Eurocontrol Convention is very good for the further development of aviation safety and air traffic services across Europe. Simplification of legislation, to which the Convention provides, will result in fewer control centres and thus less expenditure, but it will also lead to safer passage of aircraft across European airspace. It will be such that the fewer actors who are going into the picture to navigate/guide the aircraft along the way, the less risk of misunderstandings that may lead to accidents again. In this Convention, Norway has the influence we should have in the development of air traffic services legislation, through full membership of Eurocontrol. For Norway, this means that, as a full member, we can actively influence the development of legislation and standards in air traffic management and safety. In the light of the recently adopted EU rules on the establishment of a single European sky, the importance of Norway’s active participation in the air navigation work within Eurocontrol is reinforced. Norwegian air traffic controllers will still deal with traffic in Norwegian airspace through a common regulatory framework. The fact that it is the Air Safety Authority that represents Norway in the governing bodies of Eurocontrol and has had the opportunity to participate in the work on the development of the new Eurocontrol Convention is of the opinion that the Committee is important. Thus, we have been able to bring forward the special conditions that apply in the relatively large Norwegian airspace. At the time of the EU’s entry into Eurocontrol, it is clear that the Community has a strong influence on regulatory developments in air traffic management, ATM. Nevertheless, Eurocontrol is developing the legislation, and then, for the EU countries, it becomes EU law through the Community’s usual legislative procedures. This Eurocontrol Convention will facilitate the current process of allocation of airspace slots by coordinating the capacity of countries from a central Brussels CFMU, so that aircraft are at all times assigned the best possible route for the operation of the flight. It is important that Eurocontrol be empowered to monitor the follow-up of the legislation of the actors involved, as well as the powers to intervene if this has not been adequately done. More and more people are using aircraft for transport over greater distances, and even though traffic has now stagnated somewhat because of our troubled world, the fact that air travel is safe from many other means of transport and good regulation will lead to people feeling safe using aircraft, and I believe that this convention is laying down.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e339	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1909]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e355	The proposal we are considering here today is intended to protect the tropical rainforest. And although it does not become a majority for Norway to introduce a mandatory labelling system without delay independently of international negotiations, an overall committee wants far-reaching measures to protect the rainforest. An overall committee believes it is important for some countries to go ahead and take action to save the rainforest. We believe that such measures could also help to refocus the need for progress in international negotiations on sustainable use and forest protection. Taking care of the tropical rainforest means taking care of the most important biodiversity resource base, and having an impact on climate through carbon bonding. The tropical rain forest covers 6 pst today. of the surface of the earth and between 50 and 80 pst. of all plant and animal species in the world are found in the rainforest. We know that the genetic resources in the rainforest are the starting point for many medicines and vital vaccines, as well as for the development of new drugs. The Christian People's Party is very concerned about achieving sustainable development, and we know that deforestation is a serious threat to this. The extraction of tropical timber is at present much larger than that which is sound. Each year 150 000 km2 of tropical forest is destroyed — almost half the area of Norway. Only in the 1990s, 8 pst disappeared. of the tropical forest areas of the world, and the driving force is short-term profit without an assessment of how the harvest can be made sustainablely sound. The Christian People's Party is also concerned with deforestation and the highest because it has serious consequences for many developing countries today. It affects the poorest. The soil is washed away and dried out, and indigenous peoples and other peoples who depend on the resources of the forest lose their livelihood. It destroys irreplaceable natural values that have been developed over thousands of years. In this process, the Christian People's Party also sees it as important that we do not introduce measures that unintentionally affect poor countries operating sustainable forestry with timber exports as the main source of income. We want to work together with the poorest countries to promote sustainable development. It was therefore very positive that Development Minister Hilde Frafjord Johnson in Johannesburg was able to reach an agreement of intent with an important objective of ending imports of illegally harvested timber from Indonesia. The hope is that such agreements can help maximise and trade within legal and sustainable frameworks so that we can safeguard rights, improve living conditions and combat poverty among the indigenous population living in the rainforest. This is a premise if we're going to be able to preserve what's left of the world's rainforests. The reason why we have to trade from the Norwegian side is that a number of products on the market in Norway are made from destroyed rainforests. This applies in particular to construction products such as parquet floors, exterior doors and garage doors, but also to terraced floors, kitchen furnishings and bathroom equipment. Although imports of tropical activities into Norway are low in the world, it is important that we also take this seriously. The poor countries must not take the burden on themselves. It is important to sweep at your own door, and it is not the opinion of the majority that action should be taken passively until there is international agreement on a labelling system. The Government has taken several measures to avoid imports of tropical timber that do not promote sustainable development. State Council Norman has asked State Buildings and all departments to ensure that wood from the threatened rainforest is not used in state construction, the Government has taken the initiative for the Green State project, where ‘green procurement’ is one of the areas of activity, and the Environment Minister Burnde has sent letters and invited the construction industry to avoid the import of tropical timber. The industry has responded positively to this. In Norway, therefore, we must work both to prevent the placing on the market of illegal logging and to promote measures to increase the marketing of wood products based on sustainable forestry. The certification system plays a central role here. There are currently no such international arrangements, but it is necessary for certification to have a good effect and to ensure that the arrangements comply with our other international obligations. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that the Government will work with the governments of other countries to find bilateral and multilateral solutions that ensure legal and sustainable forestry globally. In Johannesburg we won a big victory by ensuring that international environmental agreements are equivalent and mutually supportive. We're going to use that as a starting point for our further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e374	Deforestation is a serious international environmental problem. The world's rain forest area shrinks dramatically. This, in turn, can lead to severe climate disturbances and lead to loss of valuable and irreplaceable genetic material. Many countries are overexploiting their forest resources because of poverty. In many countries, illegal logging is also a major problem and increases the rate of deforestation, the depletion of biodiversity and the removal of revenue from activities by governments. There is a great need for measures to stop deforestation and promote sustainable forest management. The issue is highly concerned with the relationship between the rich and the poor part of the world. Much of the world's forest areas are in the Third World. Clearly, poor countries cannot bear the burden of maintaining biodiversity and insurance against climate change alone. Assistance to promote sustainable resource management in the developing countries concerned is therefore central. Here, Norway can and should do a job. It is commendable that representatives Sørensen and Jacobsen through this Document No. The 8 proposal has helped raise the issue of environmental certification. However, as with most other global environmental challenges, unilateral trade measures have little meaning. Through international cooperation, we must seek to find common solutions that are in line with WTO legislation. The Committee is committed to promoting measures by Norway to prevent the placing on the market of illegally harvested timber and asks the Government to work actively to find multilateral solutions that ensure legal and sustainable forestry worldwide. It is therefore good that the Government will look into how we can get effective measures against illegal timber that are at the same time designed in accordance with our WTO obligations. It is important to emphasise measures that can ensure the sustainable management of forest resources and not just prevent illegal logging. I have noticed that the Government will work internationally, in the UN and in other organisations, together with the governments of other countries to find bilateral and multilateral solutions that ensure legal and sustainable forestry globally. We fully support this work from the Labour Party. With regard to global environmental challenges, we are seeing time and again that the EU is doing a hard job in finding solutions. It's very joyful. It is therefore particularly interesting to look at the work being done in the EU in this area. It is therefore constructive that the Government will take the initiative of closer cooperation with the EU to identify measures to halt illegal logging and promote sustainable forest management in all parts of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e395	In the case of deforestation and cutting rainforests, it is not that this is just that larger companies use machines to deforestation areas. We also need to be aware that in many countries poor farmers are burning forests to improve their livelihoods, where it is not possible to sell the timber or where they do not have the resources to get the timber. You burn the timber instead. The Progress Party therefore believes that it is important to take into account a poor area or the possibility of a country’s incomes when drafting legislation. Tropical rainforests must not be burned in order to allow for more profitable agriculture. We are also of the opinion that where forestry is profitable, account should be taken of whether new forest is planted to replace the forest that is being hogged, in terms of marking timber or processed timber, to which it is added. The Progress Party also points to the Government's commitment to the fight against poverty, and it is important in this respect that provision be made for the individual to be able to feed on his own work in the areas we are talking about here. The Progress Party is also of the opinion that products based on sustainable forestry that are not part of an international or national labelling scheme must not be stopped at the Norwegian border in order to protect Norwegian forestry and that no arguments such as forest protection are used when it is actually the protection of its own interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e406	I don't know exactly where to start, but I think I'm going to start with Victor -- not any who Victor at all, but Victor Norman and his green state. If you have a job at Victor Norman's, you'll be assured that something is being done effectively in relation to the fact that there should be no tropical timber. If a chance to get out of lunch and go to a garden centre to buy garden furniture or for example. parquet, then one is out in the private predator market in a way. There is no help in relation to tag schemes or in relation to getting advice and hints about what a person should buy. So simple is what we're talking about today. If one goes into one of the suggestions contained in these documents, it is a matter of getting user labelling schemes and information so that the individual can also make choices in relation to the environment. To continue, I would like to say that some of the responsibility for this lies with us, if we are to look at this internationally. It's right here. I have never heard so many beautiful words about the environment in as short a time here in Stortinget as today. But the conclusion is not there. The small extra is not present and the mandatory measures are missing. This whole ballet started with our former Prime Minister Harlem Brundtland, with the entire Agenda 21 process, not to mention the local Agenda 21 process, where the individual would be involved. And we rejoice when they in Johannesburg were told that environmental concerns would be as important as commercial considerations. However, we do not dare to impose import restrictions on destroyed rainforests today. In Johannesburg, there was also a deal to save the biological deficiency, and then it is decisive that the rainforest is preserved. Nevertheless, we do not dare today to respond to us and introduce cautious measures that could have monna. I would like to take one of the letters that the Committee has received from the three government councils involved, and that is what we have received from Minister of Foreign Affairs Petersen, who writes: ‘The government will examine how effective measures can be taken against illegal timber that are at the same time designed to comply with our WTO obligations.’ The suggestion that has doctors lead, and that we all could have voted for, is no more radical or more rabid than asking the Government to come back to the Stortinget as quickly as possible with effective measures against illegal hogd timber. So we just took the Foreign Minister's words seriously and asked the Government to come back as soon as possible with such measures. There is no longer any more that we have asked for today. But at least we have a piece coming up, and maybe the next time this is being treated here in the hall, it'll be possible to get multiples for it. And there are – for all things – good ideas here, so it is also up to the Government to come back voluntarily to the Storting with good schemes that we can end up with. That is why we are not resubmitting our proposal. Rather, we hope that we have come on the right road and that that road will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e422	It must be will and effort to stop the alarming forest robbery that we experience in parts of the world. The situation is precarious in tropical rainforests, but the problems are also great in other parts of the world. So it's not just about a rainforest problem. The effects of deforestation and unsustainable logging are many. Depletion of biodiversity and ecosystem balance may be the main threat, although this leads to immediate impacts locally and over time and also has major global impacts, such as climate change. climate change. Deforestation is also a social tragedy for many people, people who depend on the forest to maintain the basis of existence. Deforestation is also about the disappearance of the basis for economic growth in poor countries. This brings short-term benefits for a few — a lack of fair distribution of the gain for the benefit of some rich — while the poorest of the poor lose their livelihood. These are matters that are important to be taken into account, as the question is not just about maintaining biodiversity. The left considers that measures must be taken to combat illegal activity/highest and to prevent trade in products originating from illegally harvested timber. At the same time, we must not take measures that deprive countries of the possibility to export legally produced timber and timber products. We need to implement measures that contribute to the implementation of forest management and forestry in accordance with guidelines and principles of which there is international agreement and which Norway is constantly working to improve through different international bodies. The Left believes that a voluntary certification scheme will deliver good results, as it will raise consumer awareness and give environmental-conscious producers a competitive advantage. The Left, in line with the majority of the Committee, is pleased that the Government will work internationally with the governments of other countries to find bilateral and multilateral solutions that ensure legal and sustainable forestry globally. The Left is also pleased that the Government will take initiatives through the UN Forum on Forests, the UN Food Organisation, the International Tropical Timber Organisation, the UN Environment Programme and the current WTO negotiations. The left is also pleased that the Government will take the initiative in further cooperation with the EU on this matter. Within the EU there is considerable work to be done in the field of certification and work against illegal logging. Finally, the Left would point to the possibility that, through its procurement policy and through the Green State project, the State could take the lead with the requirement that all State purchases of timber and timber should be certified. In this way, the State can take the lead as a good example of an environmentally conscious consumer who imposes strict environmental requirements on his suppliers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e448	First, I would like to pay tribute to the proposers for putting a very important question on the agenda. However, different assessments of instruments do not mean disagreement on the objectives – here we are in fact fully agreed – and it is also a desire of the Government to have an equal focus on addressing the extensive problem that threatens tropical forests and rainforests. We all know that tropical forests and rainforests are the lungs of the world, and that the importance of taking care of them has great value both in terms of the conservation of genetic and biological diversity and in relation to climate problems. Even I got a close look at this on a visit to Sumatra on the summer last year with the Minister of Environmental Protection. The areas that were hilly, and not least illegal high in national parks, were huge. We flew over areas that made it visible that there were not many who followed the code. The World Bank says that in 2005, Sumatra will be without rainforest. It's dramatic. There is no doubt that extensive international cooperation is needed here to overcome the problem. The situation is at its worst global for the tropical forest. An important contribution from Norway and other industrialised countries is therefore aid to promote sustainable resource management in the various developing countries. The government attaches great importance to the fact that measures considered to promote sustainable forestry and to prevent the placing on the market of illegal timber do not inadvertently affect poor sustainable forestry countries with timber exports as an important source of income. So here we have to be able to have more thoughts in our head at the same time: addressing the illegal stallion and grasping it – and we are now doing so in the follow-up to the cooperation in the environmental field with Indonesia, on which the representative Rise was involved – but also to have a vision of sustainable management in the developing countries that are doing this. Therefore, we must have both commercial and development policy perspectives with us all the way in this work. State measures for the placing on the market of timber cannot be based on assessments only by non-governmental organisations and there is a little of the basis for the line of government in this matter. They must be based on international intergovernmental arrangements. That being said, of course, it is also the most robust system. If strong international multilateral cooperation in this area can now be achieved — and the EU has begun — we have a completely different opportunity for a much stronger instrument in this area. Therefore, it is also necessary to ensure that the criteria are non-discriminatory, verifiable and consistent with international obligations. Because we also need to avoid a situation where legally high timber from a sustainable forest management country is stopped at the border because it comes from forest land that is not currently covered by the existing certification schemes. So these are perspectives that we have to bring with us when we discuss this matter. Measures taken by Norway to prevent the placing on the market of illegally harvested timber and timber must be in line with our international commitments in other areas. The government will therefore look into how to achieve effective measures that address both the problem and are designed to comply with our WTO obligations, and that equivalence between international environmental agreements and WTO obligations is ensured. The principle of equality was what we were able to maintain in the various negotiations in Johannesburg in this area. Now Johannesburg was not the place to negotiate WTO and environmental agreements, so we will do so in the follow-up to the Doha Round and the WTO negotiations that are now taking place in Geneva. These negotiations will therefore still have to address this problem. The Norwegian position here is clear: equality and mutual support between these two agreements. The Government will work internationally with the governments of other countries to find bi- and multilateral solutions that ensure legal and sustainable forestry. Here I can promise – and we have also announced this in a letter – that we will increase our efforts. I have also said this in connection with St.prp. No 1 for 2002-2003, where development cooperation will be important to address the problems of deforestation and deforestation in relation to tropical rainforests. So we're doing this bilaterally. And for timber exporting countries, in close cooperation with the EU, we will address the labelling problem and find multilateral solutions in this area. We will also take initiatives in relevant international forums, as other representatives have been involved here. So, in addition to working multilaterally by looking at branding schemes and continuing to work on the certification page, we will be working more actively to increase our efforts on the development side. This effort will involve, among other things: the type of cooperation that we are now entering into with Indonesia. But it will also involve more efforts to prevent illegal logging and ensure sustainable management in many of the countries with which we work. We have reflected this in the budget proposal. Ensuring what is left of biodiversity will be an important way for me to follow up the commitments of Johannesburg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e469	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e472	I thank you for all the brilliance. What we're some about is that this is a serious problem, and that it's urgent, so now we should work on it. I assume that the Council of State will come back to this problem unsolicited and in as many conditions and contexts as possible. I only want to ask if she can confirm that she will come back and keep the Stortinges informed about each case, because it is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e479	I fully agree with the representative that this is very important. We are three state councils that have each part of our responsibility for the follow-up in this area. And I want to make it clear that we don't have to stop at Stortinget to talk about a question like this. We will, of course, keep Stortinget orientated. The Minister of Foreign Affairs will keep the Stortinget informed about the international multilateral aspects of the follow-up for which he is responsible, I will, of course, do so in my area, and Mr Børge Burnde will do so in relation to the multilateral commitment in the field of the environment. As far as development cooperation is concerned, I can only say to the representative Jacobsen that if he can also make sure that I can come and give a development policy statement in Stortinget, I would like to spend a lot of time talking about this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e486	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1909]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e504	The question of the policy underlying the World Bank's activities has been a recurring issue in the Foreign Affairs Committee for a year to come, and has met in different contexts. Well, it started with Document No. The 8th proposal on the report of the SAPRIN network, which agreed that a person would like to have a follow-up and a slightly wider debate at a later stage. It was up to the Committee to do so in the context of the budget for this year. Then came the restocking proposition to the IDA, which was first treated before Christmas when it was the capital restocking itself, and where we take the general part of this document that we have to deal with today. It is probably right to say that the Committee meets that in the future there will also be opportunities for follow-up presentations. One occasion may be future submissions of proposals for IDA refilling, but there may also be other options that the Committee may be able to discuss with the Council of State. An overall committee has noted in particular the review of the structural adjustment programmes and the impact of both the experience and the criticism that these programmes have brought about. There is an overall committee that supports the long-term line led by Norway and the Nordic countries to change the bank’s strategies and policies in this area, and one will underline the importance of the processes of national development strategies, the so-called PRSPs, poverty reduction and the debt-leasing initiative HIPC, where the emphasis must be placed on increasing public expenditure on health, education and other purposes specifically targeted at the poorest. The majority of the Committee also makes use of the opportunity to stress that poverty reduction must remain the main concern of the bank in the future. The World Bank is the leader in the development of evaluation methods for achieving objectives and the necessary tools for carrying out such work. In future reports of this nature, the Committee welcomes in particular feedback on the experience of the new analyses planned by the PSIA, the ‘Poverty and Social Impact Analysis’ and the impact they have on the Bank’s further work. In the proposition, the government has discussed how, among other things, the World Bank through the IDA activity with the distribution of loans and grants, unforeseen effects on cooperation between the bank, UNDP or other UN organisations. The Committee expects the Government to focus in particular on that issue in the future. The Government's own action plan to combat poverty in the south of 2015 places particular emphasis on the coherence and coherence of Norway's policies in different multilateral contexts and institutions, just as there should be one line in our bilateral and multilateral development assistance. And precisely coordinating the institutions centrally and not least at country level, the Committee believes that it is essential to achieve the objective. A special challenge, as the majority in the Committee sees it, will be to ensure democratic legitimacy, not only within the organisation, but also in the relationship between the World Bank and the borrowers in the future. The majority are therefore concerned that further action is needed to democratise the activities of the bank. The majority in the Committee also consider it positive that there has been a shift in bank lending towards increasing investment in the social sector. One is aware that there are now proposals for increased lending in the framework of so-called policy-based lending, which will be dealt with by the Bank's Board during this spring. It is a majority of the Committee that supports the strengthening of the country’s own development strategies, the PRSPs, through such lending, and in this way strengthens national ownership. I also refer to the comments of the Committee as the case-rapporteur, assuming that the minority will explain its views.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e525	It is positive that the Storting should be given this opportunity to discuss the role of the World Bank in development policy. In recent years there has been some strong criticism of the World Bank. In particular, questions have been asked whether the Bank has taken sufficient account of the poor countries. Here we believe that the criticism, at least in part, has been justified. It is important to look critically at the World Bank, precisely because it is the world's largest development institution. It sets out the agenda for development policy in many ways. It is an important premiscuous provider when, through its lending, it makes political demands on countries. Having said that, I think it is a little constructive to be against the World Bank as such. Rather, we need to engage in dialogue with the bank and work together to ensure that reforms are successful and that the main objective, poverty reduction, can be more achieved. Much has also happened. The World Bank is currently the largest external contributor to funding education programmes and health and HIV/AIDS programmes in developing countries. It's positive. It also contributes to the stabilisation and development of a number of conflict zones. These reforms have come under pressure from governments and non-governmental organisations involved in dialogue with the Bank. If we want this reform process to continue, we must maintain the pressure by participating in the dialogue. For the Workers' Party, it is important that the World Bank and regional development banks continue to have their primary objective of contributing to poverty reduction. The policy conversion has been positive, but at the same time it is important to take further action to ensure that this conversion is reflected at all levels of the World Bank’s operation. A challenge is to ensure democratic legitimacy within the organisation, but also in the relationship between the bank and the borrowers. Action is needed to further democratise the activities of the World Bank. Reforms in the voting system should be pursued in order to ensure better influence for poor countries. An increase in the number of seats should be considered for developing countries in the Bank’s Board of Directors. It is also necessary to look at the way in which the management of the large financial institutions is appointed. In addition, it is necessary to support measures to widen the composition of the World Bank staff in relation to both professional background, geographical background and gender. A majority of the Committee believes that Norway should continue to work with measures that allow greater transparency in the bank’s decision-making and evaluation processes. This will also help to ensure that the population of the Member States can hold its Governing Board representatives responsible for decisions. Norway should therefore continue to make an important effort to ensure that national strategies for development and poverty reduction facilitate real national ownership, i.e. that the strategies belong to the countries themselves, and that these strategies are used as a basis for the Bank's overall operations in a country. It is positive that there has been a shift in bank lending towards greater investment in the social sector. With regard to lending based on political conditions imposed on countries — so-called conditionality — it is important that the Government takes note of the majority’s concern that there may be countries that may not be able to meet these conditions from the World Bank. Therefore, in the further debate on the size of such lending in the World Bank, it is important that Norway works to ensure that trust and dialogue are also central to the World Bank’s lending policy. It must be an objective for both the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund that no action is taken to increase taxes or reduce efforts in the areas of health and education in developing countries. Regional development banks play an important role in both lending and counselling. Regional banks often have good skills in local conditions, and it is therefore important that there is a good interaction between the World Bank and regional banks.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e553	When we had this case up before Christmas, we had a round on the sustainability of research reports and SAPRIN. I'm not going to do that right now. The last thing that has come, actually, is that the UNDP has done a lot of research on a lot of reports. The interesting thing is that the conclusion of that investigation is that there is no link between liberalising trade and growing it. On the contrary – it is concluded that where there is growth, one has been built up slowly, but surely behind customs barriers. This is a good example of Norway. So liberalizing too much can actually prevent growth. At least we've got it fixed. That's why we've also taken that into account here. If we look at the comments from the committee, I think we've come up with a good deal in relation to Norway's using the small amount of democracy we have in the World Bank's government to get them on the right path. I don't believe in any major changes in the World Bank in the short term, but I believe that if we can hold on to the course that one has expressed in these comments, and if the Government represents us in a reasonable way, then it will go the right way. The rapporteur for the matter of debt. In old Alta Sparebank, we had the old type of bank manager. He asked people straight out: do you really need these money? Isn't it just to impress the little girls with a tough, great car that you want to buy yourself a car? Most of the time, it was like this. Such banker's dad is over. We've got completely different types of bankers who might be tricking people into borrowing too much money. There is one problem with both the World Bank and other financial institutions and various debt accumulations that there are borrowings on behalf of poor people who were not even out for loans, nor had they defined whether they needed loans. There are the same poor people who have to agree when the measures to drive these funds are to be implemented. So to one thing we've had up here before. There's a difference between the s's and the s's!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e571	The world's population is getting better. UNDP figures show that overall, people live longer than before, have better health, better education and higher income. Fewer people suffer from famine, infant mortality has fallen sharply, and illiteracy has been reduced. Democracy, universality and freedom of expression have never been more widespread than today. There is great progress, and it shows that fighting poverty and oppression is useful. But we have a long way left. Still, the extent of poverty, disease, wars and conflicts in the world is unacceptable, and the gap between rich and poor countries is increasing. The decline in the number of poor people in recent years is mainly due to the fact that people in China, and to some extent in India, have improved. In other countries, the number of people in poverty is still rising. In countries south of Sahara, East Asia and South Asia today live two thirds of the world's poorest. The average income in the 20 richest countries is 37 times higher than in the poorest 20 countries. Over half of the wars in the 1990s took place in the poorest countries. Hundreds of cities in these countries have air that is so polluted that it is dangerous to live there. Fresh water is becoming an increasingly scarce good, soil and forest are being destroyed, and biodiversity is disappearing. I think most people in this room agree that social and environmental developments are not consistent with sustainable development in a world where we are all interdependent. That's why we're all obliged to do something about it. Today, 1.2 billion people live in extreme poverty. This suggests that we need to be more effective in the fight against poverty. The international breakthrough we've been given, with the UN's Millennium Development Goal, promises good. The Christian People's Party sees it as very positive that not only the UN Member States have joined them but also the World Bank, the IMF and the WTO have signed the Millennium Goals. In fact, these objectives are the objectives of the World Bank. The aim is for financial institutions to establish their policies to combat poverty. The challenge is to find the best way to solve the major problems. In the 1950s, there was talk of development and economic growth as one thing, of trade and liberalisation in focus and modernisation as one-sided economic growth. In the 1960s a settlement was made with the liberal economic theory and the blame for the lack of development laid on the international system and Western capitalism. Later, a certain convergence was reached between these two directions, but globalisation and world trade are still being discussed with a broad involvement of the whole people. Christian People's Party believes it's good. We need dialogue and debate to find good solutions. Taking responsibility for the world's poor means that we need to pursue a development policy that produces results for each individual, believing that the countries affected must themselves be in the driving force of development. We believe that economic forces must be kept in check by global governance, by strengthening global institutions and by intensifying multilateral cooperation. A globalized world without driving rules serves no one. A central point will then be that the international financial institutions are functioning. It has been said that the best way to fight poverty is to bring down the World Bank. I guess that's gonna make the poor feel better. I'm afraid the result would be the opposite. Today, the World Bank, the IMF and regional development banks are the only financial institutions willing to lend to the poorest countries. Had we not had these, the poorest countries would be left to themselves and to the private credit market. As the Minister of Finance in South Africa has said, if someone really wants the poor to suffer, put the World Bank and the IMF down! Therefore, raising capital is important and correct. But that doesn't mean that the World Bank always does the right things. The test for the international financial institutions is whether they are effective tools in the fight against poverty. The World Bank is far from perfect, and it's made several mistakes along the way. The previous structural adjustment policy of the 1980s has been subject to extensive and justified criticism, including from the Norwegian side. This approach did not work. At the time, it was assumed that economic growth and macro-level action would almost automatically produce results that benefited the poor, and that the problems were only short-lived. This proved to work in some middle-income countries, but was not successful in the poorest countries, where problems were more profoundly structural. One essential point of the criticism was that they led to a reduction in public expenditure, for example. health and education. The structural adjustment programmes were not the answer to the needs of the poor. There was a need for economic reform, but structural adjustment went too far. That's what the World Bank and everyone else have realized. In 1993, the World Bank established poverty reduction as its main objective. The policy mix we have seen in recent years is precisely measures to achieve this on the part of the bank. The focus is now on the relationship between macro-economics and the social dimension of development. The PRSP process, with national strategies for development and poverty, is a major breach of the structural adjustment policies of the past. The World Bank has seen that the fight against poverty will fail if it is not the countries themselves that govern their own development, and donors become more coordinated. The PRSP involves developing their own policies and choosing their own reforms. The PRSP process is still at an early stage, and the way forward is full of challenges. It is important to recognise that many poor countries need long-term capacity and institution building to effectively implement the principles behind the PRSP approach. The representative Jacobsen referred to a UNDP report which was supposed to argue in the direction of what is SV's view of the World Bank. This is a debate paper published in cooperation with the UNDP and several other independent foundations, including: deals with the effect of free trade. The publication is also at the expense of the authors themselves. The main objective of this book is to argue that an international trade regime must be asymmetric with special arrangements for developing countries, in particular the least developed. It underlines that trade affects social development by contributing to economic growth, while there is no automatic link between economic growth and social development. There is a need for social investment and good governance. Furthermore, it is argued that there are good reasons for allowing developing countries to benefit differently from the protection of their domestic markets. These are the points of view we're going to take seriously. This also applies to the views expressed in the debate paper, which strongly calls for the liberalisation of an international trade regime for products of interest to developing countries, in particular agricultural products, textiles and raw materials. There is little evidence to suggest that the views expressed in the debate paper are contrary to those of the World Bank. Both point out that trade liberalisation and the reduction of market protection measures in developing countries do not automatically lead to economic growth. The Christian People's Party also does not believe that countries are developing solely by opening up to trade and investment. That is why we are so strongly committed to aid and debt relief too. In World Bank policy, the debate on the degree of market orientation and the relationship between the public and private sectors has been sensitive. Norway has stressed the need for a strong and well-functioning public framework and a strong and effective state for liberalisation and privatisation. We have presented the Nordic mixed economies as examples of alternative economic models. It is a fact that those who do not have institutions, capital, technology or market access cannot benefit from trade liberalisation either. The position of the country’s role in the development process has undergone significant changes in the World Bank. The Bank has realised that economic growth and social development depend on a well-functioning country, i.e. a state that provides basic services to the people, a state that fights against corruption, a state that decentralises power and involves civil society, and that good governance to strengthen public administration is necessary. The Bank's policy today is also about democratisation and respect for human rights. A central part of the PRSP process is that it underlines the importance of participation from civil life and the strengthening of the poor. Poor people don't just suffer from physical distress. They also lack a channel that allows their voice to be heard in matters that affect their lives. PRSP processes place the emphasis on increasing public expenditure on health, education and other specific targets for the poorest. While the World Bank was previously known for its heavy involvement in major infrastructure projects, today the Bank is the main international source of funding for education, in the fight against AIDS and for health programmes in general. In fact, the World Bank is the second largest contributor in these areas. But increasing public spending does not mean protecting against corruption, military spending and public waste, which distorts huge resources away from poverty reduction. This is also reflected in the World Bank's lending. Norway supports lending where quality and conditions around the country’s PRSP allow. When the World Bank continues to impose certain conditions, it is to ensure that countries follow the policies they themselves have described in their own PRSP. The PRSP approach also underlines the indebtedness of the poorest countries. After many years of calls from Norway and several other countries, the World Bank and the IMF presented in 1996 a proposal for a debt cancellation scheme for the poorest countries, known as the HIPC initiative. Today, the World Bank is an important player in international debt-laundering activities. Fifty billion dollars will be surrendered. It makes a difference in the fight against poverty. We've come a long way, but we're not on target yet. The HIPC scheme faces several challenges, including: in relation to countries that have been affected by armed conflict and that the poor countries achieve a sustainable management of the debt situation. The Minister of Development has promised that Norway will continue to work towards more reorganization of debt. We need a more comprehensive and flexible debt relief, and then we need more money from the rich countries to do so. Of the total debt incurred under the HIPC initiative, around half will come from multilateral financial institutions. However, the Christian People's Party recognises that the institutions cannot cancel all debts, as bilateral creditors could eventually do. This will affect just the poorest in the poorest countries. Total debt cancellation by multilateral institutions will mean that these institutions will not receive funds in the form of amortisation of loans granted on very favourable terms. Unfortunately, we do not see any prospect of increased contributions from donor countries being able to offset this. Thus, institutions' resources will be greatly reduced in the long term, leading to fewer cheap loans to poor countries. Norway has been giving priority to cooperation with the World Bank for many years, and we have tried to influence the institutions in line with Norwegian development policy. The developments we have seen in the World Bank's approach are today in line with key principles of Norwegian development policy. The Christian People's Party welcomes the fact that the Government will continue to work to strengthen the interaction between the bank's work and Norwegian bilateral assistance. The Bank’s broad mandate to develop and facilitate economic development and poverty reduction are themes that have traditionally shaped Norway’s and Nordic countries’ profile in the World Bank’s governance. When national ownership, active involvement of civil society, sustainable development, environment, health, education and equality are seen as central to the bank, there is no doubt that pressure from non-governmental organisations and member countries that Norway has contributed to these changes. We're on the right track, even if it's a long way to go. Still, financial institutions and others at country level work more in parallel than in cooperation. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government is working to increase cooperation between the World Bank and the IMF, the regional development banks and the United Nations system. It also means that the basis of influence of developing countries needs to be improved in the World Bank, and the Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government will work on this. The voice of the poor must, and to a greater extent than today, be heard in the World Bank. The Christian People's Party welcomes the policy and strategy that has shaped the World Bank in recent years. The implementation of these measures now also needs to be equally promising. We will continue to work to improve both our and the World Bank's development policies to make them as poverty-reducing as possible. Bugs will be made, and improvements will be required. We're going to learn from this. If we are not satisfied with the existing tools for multilateral cooperation, we must change them, not distance them. I think we're on the right track. The Christian People's Party supports the government's work in relation to the World Bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e609	The World Bank and regional development banks aim at poverty reduction and sustainable development. Despite the conversion of the World Bank's policies in its later years, the World Bank's policy continues, in the view of the Centre Party, to a large extent based on the idea of trade liberalisation as an unconditional benefit for the poorest countries. The idea that the freest trade is an unconditional good for the poorest countries was given a strong shot at the bow through a comprehensive work and a book that UNDP has recently launched. The study shows that poor countries that have opened up their markets have had very different developments. It is also pointed out that all of today's rich industrialised countries have gone through a phase of protectionist policy before investing in major free trade. The most developed countries in the world have come where they are today using very different strategies. There are no pre-picked economic systems that guarantee economic growth and development. This requires the international trading system as well as the dominant development actors, such as the World Bank, to move in. Free trade does not necessarily lead to economic growth and economic growth does not automatically lead to human development. Growth and development must be achieved through the conduct by each country of an economic and social policy adapted to the circumstances of the particular country. In processes leading to loans from the World Bank, due account must be taken of the priorities of the beneficiary countries and loans must be adapted to the situation in each country. In this area, the World Bank still has a piece to go. Having said that, there is no doubt that the World Bank has taken over some of the criticisms that have been directed at it in terms of structural adjustment policy. However, some of the conditions associated with the structural adjustment programmes can be found in other programmes today, for example. in the poverty reduction strategy papers. On the one hand, it is clear that the donor countries must make clear demands to see the results of the assistance. On the other hand, for detailed requirements, the beneficiaries lose ownership of the policy they are obliged to implement. The problem is that well-functioning local practices can be broken down in order to meet the needs of the donor countries for their plans. Such detailed management of the economies of the countries can, in the worst case, undermine the economy of the country. In order for the World Bank to be seen as a fully legitimate development actor, the institution must be developed in a more democratic direction. Poor countries need to be guaranteed greater influence. The representation of developing countries on the Bank's Board of Directors needs to be increased and developing countries need to be better represented at all levels of the Bank's administration. A notable example of the lack of influence of developing countries in the World Bank is the following: the World Bank is governed by the weighting of votes in relation to economic deposits, for example. gives the Nordic countries 6 pst. Voting weight, while sub-Saharan Africa – 47 countries – has 7 pst. In the long term, the World Bank should be subordinate to the UN. It will facilitate the implementation of programmes and objectives of UN conferences, such as: the millennium targets. Such inclusion will also allow for more democratic legitimacy for the World Bank by leaving the principle of ‘one country — one vote’ at the heart of the voting process. For the time being, efforts must be made to ensure tightest possible coordination and a sensible division of labour between the World Bank and the regional development banks and the United Nations. At country level, the banking and UN systems must act in a holistic way. Institutions such as the IMF and the World Bank have the potential to be both important and useful tools for a fairer distribution of the world’s goods, well to note if they are properly managed. There is still important work to be done here. Norway must therefore further concentrate its efforts and influence in order to change the way the institution is managed. Norway should be a driver of reforms in the World Bank in order to ensure increased democratic legitimacy, increased transparency and increased use of independent evaluations. Norway must be visible and go ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e630	This day – and the time in and on its own – is marked by Iraq, and also by the statement that has just been made. It's probably reflected in this room, but it's still a paradox that the case that gathered 10,000 people in the streets in June is covered with so little interest in Norwegian public, in the gallery and here in the hall. It is actually today that we are debating all the demands and criticisms expressed by the demonstrators and activists in June. I would like to see a full gallery and a large commitment, but I record that that is not the case. This may mean that we have been able to respond truthfully to some of the challenges that have been presented. I will nevertheless take the opportunity, since this is an important debate, to go through some of our assessments of the developments in the bank. As we have said so often before in this Chamber, 1.2 billion people live in absolute poverty. Through the Millennium Goals, the world community has committed itself to concrete, verifiable targets to halve the proportion of the poor by 2015. And then we all have to account for how we've been involved in following up and contributing to it. There is no doubt that strong multilateral cooperation in the field of development policy is a prerequisite for achieving these objectives. As Minister of Development and Norwegian Governor of the World Bank, I see it as a primary task to ensure that this institution and its policies contribute strongly to poverty reduction. That means that I also have to deal critically with the bank's policies and arrangements in order to contribute to improvements. It shall also apply to all multilateral international institutions. But a criticism that is based on the fact that the international financial institutions do far more harm than the benefit of developing countries, or that they themselves increase poverty, as some claim, is completely misunderstood in my opinion. ‘Shrink or Sink’ – ‘shrimp’ them or put them down – has been the message of many globalisation opponents in recent years about the WTO, the World Bank and the IMF. I fundamentally disagree with that. A globalized world without strong multilateral institutions and rules becomes a more brutal world. A globalised world without international obligating traffic rules will be a world of the strongest right. In such a world, two groups of countries in particular will suffer — the small and the poor. That is why we need global governance structures. That is why we need strengthened international institutions, not weaker ones. The World Bank, together with the IMF, the WTO and the UN, is the only global institutions we have, and we have to build on them. Rather, we should go into and influence the policies of these institutions and the policies they pursue. We have also done so from the Norwegian side. I have no pressing need to defend the World Bank, and I have probably been critical in the past – at least as much as those who marched in the streets in June – to what has been done by the Bank over the years. But our influence together with other actors has actually contributed to bank reforms in a number of areas. Then we'll try to cash them in and say, So far, and then we'll have to get further. The World Bank appears to be a different institution today than 10 or 20 years ago, and there is, in fact, quite a consensus between Norwegian development policy and the World Bank's policy. And we're not the ones that have changed, it's the bank that's changed. It focuses clearly on poverty reduction, recognises the need for countries themselves to take the lead in the development process, emphasises national participation and cooperation and coordination between different aid actors. But what remains, of course, is implementation and implementation in every country, all the way to the individual poor. They have to notice a difference! The World Bank is a large and heavy institution, and it should not be concealed that it is not an easy matter to ensure that visions and new policies permeate all parts of the system. However, the Bank’s top management is keen to change operational activities at country level and output in line with new policies, and action follows words. Among many, the bank is best known for the outsourced structural adjustment programmes implemented in the 1980s. There's a lot to say about these programs, and I've said a lot myself – in many debates. Even with all their biases, they still deserve a somewhat more nuanced debate than they do in the so-called SAPRIN report. My main score is a different one, though. We've learned from them and moved on. These no longer exist in the form and content they had – and thank you for that! It is not where the dividing lines go in today's debate on development policy. At least they shouldn't. Macroeconomic stabilisation and structural reforms are still needed in a number of developing countries. The difference is that today this is seen as an integral part of overall country-specific poverty-oriented development strategies – the so-called PRSPs – where macroeconomic, structural and social considerations are seen in context. The World Bank is also reviewing the guidelines for its lending to reflect changes in development thinking. That means, I think, also that we want to see a change in the ratio of the bank to the individual countries' PRSPs. In order to mark the changes and breaks in what was, the bank is now abandoning the concept of structural adjustment. The new loans will be called Development Policy Support Lending. Some would argue that this is old wine in new bottles. My claim is that for a while the bank has already served new wine in old bottles. In any case, the wine and the labels do not count. The important thing here is that the bank serves the good wine at the end. That's the main point. The new guidelines will, after all, mark a breach of the so-called Washington consensus. Countries themselves must want to change and feel ownership of the reforms. Countries must choose their own policies. The role of the Bank is to advise. The bank will not produce finished recipes. In the poorest countries, lending will be based on their own development and poverty reduction strategies, i.e. the PRSPs. They must be designed by the countries themselves. This is obviously the right way to go. At the same time, it will clearly be a challenge to convert rhetoric and policy into practical action. Norway should take care of this. Here we still need the help of civil society and voluntary organizations. The principle of national ownership, on the one hand, and the desire of donors to reform the other is a persistent and difficult dilemma, not only for the bank, but also for us. As donors, we want countries to take national ownership and leadership. At the same time, we have expectations of the reforms they need to implement, often linked to good governance, democratisation, anti-corruption measures and policy poverty correction. There are several ways to deal with this. Firstly, the bank must give countries the real opportunity to choose. It has to take a step back, let the countries make their own choices, even though they may be different from those the bank's country manager would have preferred to have seen in that country. It is important that the World Bank also in its doing and loading takes on board the fact that there are, in fact, different ways of achieving economic development and growth. There are no fasitant solutions, and there are no suitable bluecopy models at all. At the same time, it is obvious that it is important to help countries to have the best possible basis for making their choices. An important tool for establishing such a basis for different macroeconomic choices is to carry out analyses of how different policy approaches affect social conditions and poverty reduction. The World Bank and the IMF, which I have discussed earlier in this Chamber, are therefore in the process of developing such an analytical tool, called ‘Poverty and Social Impact Analysis’. Norway supports this work, both professionally and financially. Also in this context we will be able to get an analysis, I think, of what kind of relevance trade policy will have. Let me just stress here, since several speakers have been involved in this, that the so-called report from the UNDP to which you refer is not a report, but a debate book in which the authors of the article have different views, and what they say, stands for their own account and has no UNDP stamp. That's what's important for me to say, because that's what UNDP has explained at the time of publication. They want to contribute to greater debate, and we definitely want to welcome that. Loans based on national policies are linked to the relationship between the Bank and the IMF. Changes have also taken place in the IMF in recent years, with the introduction of the HIPC and the PRSP, and there is a growing understanding that it is impossible to see macroeconomic conditions detached from structural and social conditions. It's obviously important that the bank and the IMF are run together here. There's still a lot left here, and we're working on it. This is something we from the Norwegian side will follow up. An important discussion now taking place in relation to the Bretton Woods institutions is the representation of developing countries in governing bodies. The government is committed to increasing the influence of developing countries on the governing bodies of the World Bank, in line with the poverty reduction action plan, which we presented last March. A package of measures is needed to address this issue from several points of view. These include: the need to increase the relative voting weight of developing countries through an extension of basic voices. At the same time, we will work to improve contact between electoral group offices and home authorities. We will also work for a stronger representation from the developing countries in the IDA negotiations and will continue to work on this issue until a conclusion is reached in relation to the processes currently under way in the bank's governance. Although the World Bank’s policy has to a large extent approached Norwegian development policies, there is no need to settle down. There are several areas where we in Norway must work towards the development and revision of the Bank's policy, become more flexible and become even more country-specific. The challenges lie ahead. I have just as full faith that we are now facing our best chance of speeding up the development process in the poorest countries. The Conference on Financing for Development in Monterrey resulted in an international consensus on what is needed to create development. Developing countries themselves must take responsibility – their share of responsibility – for good governance and poverty reduction policies. We must take our share of responsibility, with a better policy in relation to both trade, debt and investment, and not least in relation to resources and aid resources. By delivering in all of these areas, we can all contribute to the achievement of the Millennium Goals. So we have a consensus, not only on the objectives, but also on the instruments. It must now be put into practice and everyone must contribute. We're going to continue to have an argus eye on the World Bank in this context, as a very important partner. We will continue to do everything we can to influence the World Bank's policies, and not least to help put policies and good intentions into practice so that it is noticed outside the individual poor. That's what's going to be the real test piece.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e688	I am very pleased that many, including the Council of State, have clearly read this report from UNDP. I haven't done that, but I've read Our Land and their interpretation of him. Our country's interpretation is that there is a new UN report, although it has also been seen in the United Nations as a debate book precisely because it is questionable by many old hopes that only we will get more liberalisation, there will also be development and growth. We've learned, however, that capital flows still go from south to north, and I'm not going to ram up all the other indicators that indicate that there's going wrong. So to this with demonstrators, other activists and organizations engaged against the World Bank. Some of them go so far as to say that they want to lay down Bretton Wood's institutions. I think we should look at it as an expression of a proper commitment. We're really going to take that with us, bring it with us here in the Storting. The World Bank should take these signals very seriously instead of dismissing it as something that had no content. That they are absolutely right, I will not guarantee in any way, but I will ask the Council of State to comment on how it accepts these signals from various voluntary organisations in Norway. Some of them demonstrate in the streets, but among those who walk in the streets, there are also some who present good articles and reports and have really good opinions in this area. In what way does the Council of State accept these? I have experienced myself here in Stortinget that a 20-year-old girl who I believe works in the Delete U-lands debt, who was supposed to have some GIEK reports, actually didn't get them. The size otherwise is open to lobbyists for different things, which goes into here with the greatest semblance of self. But one who works voluntarily, I kept saying 24 hours a day, didn't get a report, so I had to go to the dispatch office and get hold of him. Are we open enough to the volunteers in Norway who, in spite of everything, are working on their commitment to try to do something about the unfair situation we see in the world today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e695	The last question asked by the representative Jacobsen: As a former activist, I think there are few who have more open doors for current activists than I do. This also applies to the SLUGs, to the representatives of the U.S. debtors as well as to those who want to meet and want to contribute. Our books are also completely open. When we designed our debt plan in 1998, the EU debt was a very important partner for us, and they are still. Our people spend a lot of time in the dialogue with them. Other people, too, we have good discussions with, so there's no doubt about availability and transparency. So the question that concerns this UNDP report. This is a debate book published by the UNDP together with the Rockefeller Foundation, the Rockefellers Brothers Fund, Heinrich Böll Foundation, the Wallace Global Fund For a sustainable future, i.e. a trick with different institutions, which does not mean that there is an authorized UN view on any of this, but a debate book that we need, and which I think it is positive to use in the discussions we are going to have in the future. However, the book is essentially a strong appeal with heavy arguments for an international trade regime that needs to be liberalised but liberalised for the benefit of developing countries’ goods and services. That's the main point you have to bring with you. That's the main line of argument from the authors. When the representative Jacobsen mentions the flow of capital from the south to the north, it is a paradox that it is in one area that the stop has been the strongest, and that injustice has been the greatest. It has just been in the field of trade. There, markets have been closed for the two products developing countries are able to produce: textiles and agricultural products. Fortunately, we've done something about this now, with the MUL decision, 0-toll and 0-quota for all goods per. 1 July last year. That means we've done something at least, but this is a big paradox. In those areas where developing countries can produce goods and services, the closures have been the largest. We're going to have a demanding arrangement now, which will also be about what line we're going to put on in the WTO context. In this context, of course, protection and transitional arrangements for developing countries over a period of time, as we did ourselves, will also be important. Here Norway has said that we support transitional arrangements and flexibility in relation to the interests of developing countries. But it's not that we are «sweep» one way, it's that we also have to take responsibility for opening up the markets. Otherwise, we're not credible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e704	Bjorn Jacobsen has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e708	In Norway, we were so lucky that we got democracy before, among other things. found oil. We had a structure in place. What we see in many places in the world is that one doesn't have democracy in place, not that structure to accept a lot of oil wealth, not to talk about accepting a lot of loans. The common man in the street, the common woman who drives the earth, is actually not with and defines the need for loans. But then you get a loan, you have to pay it back, and then you can't. My question to the Council of State is: does it see any possibility of settling this, that the loans are given more according to the needs of ordinary people, not necessarily according to the needs of those who are in power in different countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e713	There's a big paradoxical representative Jacobsen here points out, which is not easy to solve. In the post-conflict countries, i.e. countries that come out of conflict, there have been in some cases undemocratic and relatively authoritarian regimes that have been behind the conflicts of poor people. When new governments take over, it's important that they don't get stuck with the bill for what the former regimes did. In this context, we have taken an initiative at the Paris Club and internationally to address what we can call specific conditions for post-conflict countries. It addresses precisely the problem that the representative is facing, that we must try to help alleviate the debt burden of these countries, so that they can better avoid taking over the debt burden and can get much better terms by reducing and erasing the debt, depending on how to settle the debt. It has not yet been fully eliminated in this initiative, but it is an important work for which we are now working for international support. Otherwise, it is difficult to get a pass at the Paris Club to just beat a line across the entire bill and just look at the needs of each country. It's hard. We need to deal with the debt burden, which means that we also take macro-economic account of the country's situation as a whole. But at least in some cases, we are now making more flexible arrangements, and postal conflicts are one of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e718	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1909]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e734	The Committee has a small, brief comment on the need to maintain a continuous pressure on the health, education and women perspective of assistance. In a sense, it is new, because normally the Committee has not used to have specific comments on these kinds of issues, on these aid agreements. – Then I am finished speaking for the cause. I'm going to be SVs. It only applies to a brief clarification. Budgetary and development policy spending – and when are we going to discuss assistance? That's what I'm a little busy with. We in SV wonder that so few of the agreements, for example. This includes basic education — not least basic education for girls, which we all talk about in all possible contexts, but none of the 97 agreements that have been concluded includes it. But it may well be that the Council of State has a reasonable explanation for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e741	Education is a main field of action. We recently launched our education strategy. The way it's reflected is in two conditions. Now we are changing our development cooperation in general, from less project orientation to programmes and budget support. What we do is we go in and support sectoral programmes in several countries. It doesn't have to be related to contract-specific arrangements, but that we go in, for example. with support for what is called basket financing in the various countries. The other way we increase education aid is through multilateral channels. We support both UNICEF's training for girls in the Africa programme, a very comprehensive and great effort. We're also doing it in relation to the bank. That's what we're planning now, it's new for the year, so educational efforts are increasing significantly. It will also be reflected in the report to Stortinget later. That is why it has not been reflected in the aid agreements to which the representative is referring. In the absence of a more comprehensive debate on development policy – since the President of Storting is also present here today – I would just like to mention the importance of an assessment of this with a statement on development policy. We have very few issues for the Storting in terms of reporting and propaganda, and the development policy presentation has been an important opportunity for debate for the Storing and for development policy as a whole. This will be a wish on our part, but it is of course up to the Storting itself to decide whether to have such a regular statement, in the same way as for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This I expect the Storting itself to assess, but it would give the opportunity for more debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e750	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1909]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e766	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e773	This article should be very brief, as there is an overall committee which recommends that Document No. 8:7 shall be annexed to the Protocol. The Committee considers, as stated in the preamble, that it is natural to see this matter in the context of the Government's coming to the Grand Duchy with a separate case of concessions on agriculture and forest property. In a letter from the State Council of Sponheim of 12 November 2002, attached to the suspension, it is noted that most of the forest in Norway lies in agricultural land which consists of both agricultural land and forest. This is why the Council of State considers it unfortunate to have two different administrative regimes for the acquisition of forests. Also contains Document No. 8:7, from Øystein Hedstrøm and Lodve Solholm, many fundamental issues affecting the administrative regime, among others. in relation to accommodation and price control. An overall committee therefore considers that it is most appropriate to address the issues in a more holistic context when the Stortinget deals with its own oeuvre proposition, which the ministry will promote in our own time. The Committee recommends that the document be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e786	As the rapporteur said, there is a unanimous committee in favour of this matter being annexed to the Minutes. However, I would like to state that the proposers, Solholm and Hedstrøm, are focusing here on an important point of principle that we will be dealt with in this Chamber later. What is a principle point, and which they raise questions about, is whether there should be different regimes to deal with concession issues relating to soil and forest properties. The Sem Declaration points to a review of concession law. I look forward to this discussion here in the hall and expect that we will then have the opportunity to discuss this fundamental question of different treatment regimes for soil and forest.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e795	In recent decades, Norwegian industry has experienced significant structural changes. So far, through concession law, forest industry has been cut off from making all the necessary adjustments that other parts of our business have undergone. One of the main obstacles today is precisely this concession law, because it allows the authorities to review assessments made by the purchaser and the seller in a voluntary transaction, inter alia. based on business considerations related to an exposure in the forest sector. The party to the progress is of the opinion that it is unfortunate that the authorities have the opportunity to intervene in such voluntary transactions. Recently, the State's agricultural administration has intervened in several voluntary transactions because it is claimed that the price has been too high. This concerns the sale by Norwegian Forest of large forest properties in the East. The information service's fund wanted to buy 27,000 dean from the Follum forests in Uppland for 23.5 million. kr, while Norway’s Forest Geyser Association would buy the 155 000 covers of large Saugbruks forests for 175 million. kr. The intention was to sell the forest back in cadastral parcels to members, so that they could strengthen their nutritional basis. And about 200 forest owners signed up and were interested in buying. Fortunately, the decision of the State Agriculture Administration was reversed when it was filed with the Ministry. From our point of view, it was very reasonable for the Council of State to lower the calculation rate from 5 to 4 pst. 25 pst. higher price. There are a number of interesting things about the price assessment. The difference in the market’s willingness to pay and the state’s view of the correct level of prices show that there is a great deal of distance between the calculations made by the purchasers and the State’s agricultural administration. There is good reason to question the correctness of the estimates made by the State's agricultural administration when purchasers who live by receiving a return on their investments arrive at a significantly different price level. With falling timber prices, it has also become more common to use alternative sources of income from the area, such as: power generation, hunting, fishing and experience tourism. Here it is important to stress that only potential buyers can assess this on the basis of their own plans. The Ministry of Agriculture has, among other things: emphasised in its conversion of the refusal that the conversion of forest policy results in forest owners being more responsible than before for maintaining long-term investments in the forest. This suggests, in the Ministry's view, that the forest owner should also be given greater discretion in determining the price at which he or she is to buy forest. The market price for forest at this stage must be expected to be substantially within 4 pst. Now, when the seller has the opportunity to obtain market prices after the real value of the property through sale, there is reason to hope that more properties come into the market. This, in turn, will give those who want to invest in the industry the opportunity to develop their nutritional basis and to strive for more rational units of use. As previous speakers have mentioned, it is a unanimous committee which concludes on the proposal of the Progress Party and that this should be annexed to the Minutes, because the matter will be seen in a wider context. There is then a proposal, an odelstingsproposition, for a new concession law this spring. I also want to pay tribute to the Council of State for his contribution to lowering the calculation rate to 4 pst. The facts are that it is the market rate that determines, as a framework has now been passed on. So the state council has done the best thing in today's legislation. There has been a strong liberalisation of the legislation. However, if, within the framework of today's legislation, the market for the marketing of forest property is in practice free, why can't you just as well abolish this whole forest property concession law when it doesn't work in practice? It's a direct question to the State Council, Sponheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e814	I have noticed that the Business Committee proposes that Document No. 8:7 is annexed to the Protocol. It refers to my letters to the Stortinget where it appears that the Government will come to Stortinget with a case of concessions on agriculture and forest property. I'd like to elaborate on this. The government aims to propose a new concession law during the spring 2003 session – I think it is even announced in April. Most of the proposals relate to the scope of the concession obligation, and the proposals will aim to increase the freedom of concession not to a negligible extent. As is known, the land limit for built-up property is proposed to be raised from 20 dekars to 100 dekars, provided that no more than 20 dekars are fully cultivated. The rationale for raising the land boundary The rationale for raising the land frontier is a desire to increase the frequency of agricultural property turnover in rural areas, including: in order to ensure the settlement and to provide increased opportunities for those who, for various reasons, wish to reside outside the city centres. I believe that there is a need for an ongoing assessment of whether the legislation in agriculture supports current agricultural policy objectives in an appropriate way. This is the main essence of the mandate of the Odelslovkommission, and it is also a central aspect of the proposal for a new concession law. I also believe that it is still desirable to control the price of the acquisition of agricultural property over a certain size. It is right, as the representative Hedstrøm stated, that the changes in regulations that the Ministry has now made, including: after the sale of the Saugbruks forests from Norwegian Forest to the forestry organisations for subsequent resale, has led to free price formation for all practical purposes. The purchaser and seller of forest can count on the price they agree, also approved by the agricultural authorities, because it is caught by a number of higher ceilings based on a calculation rate of 4 pst. A calculation rate of 4 pst. implies that revenue which is very advanced in time is of greater value than in the past. It also makes other non-economic values, which we know many are willing to pay for by purchasing back forest – for example. forests that have been added to the properties in the past, as we know from these Saugbruks forests – it will be possible to take into account in pricing. But from there to not having any thanks for catching extreme rashes, which we know can still appear, is a step like the Ministry of Agriculture and I don't want to take. This means greater freedom than today, but still a roof that makes it impossible to get completely extreme price estimates approved. Access to living conditions by the concession law will also be an important tool to ensure the viability of local communities that we still want. Without price controls – although there is a much higher ceiling on forest properties – and housing obligations will soon pose a real risk of price developments on agricultural property, not least in the vicinity of large cities, which means that only a few have the opportunity to purchase such properties. It is true, as the proposers point out, that no proposals on the freedom of concession have been drawn up during the consultation session when acquiring pure forest property. However, the proposal will be considered in the context of the work still under way under the new concession law. In my view, it is important not to consider the proposal in isolation but to look at it in conjunction with the other legislative proposals, as the majority of the Economic and Social Committee also suggests in the Innst. S. No 107. As I can see, the reasons for the proposal are linked to a desire to abolish price controls in the acquisition of clean forest properties. In this context, reference was made to the price control carried out by the State Agriculture Administration in the sales from Norwegian Forest to the Forest Association and the Information Society Fund. As I was inside, and as the representative Hedstrøm was inside, the department has granted a concession to the acquisition and thus accepted the purchase price. The Ministry assumes that the adopted State budget for 2003 represents a change in forest policy so that forest owners have to take greater responsibility for maintaining the long-term logging potential in the forest than in the past. It is therefore assumed that forest owners must be given greater freedom of action in determining the price at which they will purchase forest. In the light of these circumstances, the Ministry developed a supplementary circular on forest pricing, in which the capitalisation rate base known to be 4 pst. The circular also provides – and it is important – the possibility for any rationalisation effects on the purchase of additional forest to be taken into account in the assessment of the price in the context of the concession. Although, with these adjustments, we have not established the freedom of concession by acquiring clean forest properties, I believe that we have met the intentions of Document No. 8:7 on greater freedom of action. I further expect to come back to these questions in connection with the examination of proposals for a new concession law.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e837	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e845	Let's go to voting. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-13.ana.ud1927e928	There is no record.
