ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e55	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e62	The law that Odelstinget is invited to take tonight is a very important law decision. As rapporteur of the case, I would like to give the Ministry of Justice, the Government and not least the Committee a favourable opinion on the work done in connection with this legislative proposal. This is often the case when you feel that you have come to terms with important principles. It is so much in this matter as well, but it has one additional element, and it is that we are able to adopt a new investigative body for the police and the prosecution authority, largely unanimous, and where the committee agrees on what kind of lines and what kind of leadership will be the basis for all of this. It's important, not just because you've had a good process around it, but it's also important in relation to what's the main concern behind the legislative amendment and the need for legislative change. It brings me to the first main point in relation to what justifies the law we are facing today. In particular, there is a need to increase confidence in the body responsible for investigating allegations of criminal offences by police and prosecution authorities. With this bill, there may not be any particular change in the number of cases of this kind. We know that there's a very high number of things, over 90 pst. by the cases relating to the notification against the police and the prosecution authority, which are ordered. What has been the problem has been that such a high percentage of accommodation challenges us to have a system that is largely guaranteed high legitimacy in the population. I don't think the termination rate will change anything in particular, but with this new scheme, I think you've done the necessary steps. The process that has been here in the Grand Duchy so far will also contribute to the large degree of support of this system by the broad majority, not only in terms of party politics, but it should also have it out in the population. Why is it that this is important? Well, for us who believe that we are dependent on a strong and effective police force, a police force that will also be invited in the future to use probably new methods, and which many people experience as a police force that has relatively large forced homes to use, and which on some occasions also have to use these forced homes, it is all the more important, in order to ensure an effective police service, to have an effective control. In fact, the effectiveness of an inspection body is measured in a number of ways than by looking solely at the percentage of clarification and the nature of the instructions. There comes the question of people's trust. The feeling that many people have had that there has been a system that has investigated the system, people who have almost explored the sea, has not helped to strengthen the confidence of the investigation carried out by the existing SEFO. With the steps taken, in my opinion, the thorough work that has also been done in the Ministry of Justice, and the leadership that has now been given by the Committee on Justice, we have ensured that a strong, central and nationwide investigation body is provided for these police cases. In my view, it has also been ensured that the necessary independence required by this work has been achieved. It has also been ensured that executive powers in this country, the Government, have sufficient powers, as is the case in most cases, to develop this investigative unit as the Government deems it appropriate, in particular in relation to how to organise any offices locally and regionally. So I just want to say in the end, when it comes to the issue of complaint handling, it's like 30 pst. of the enquiries made to SEFO today are considered to be mere complaints. Here the Committee has pointed out that there is a greater desire for thoroughness, and that one wants a system in which at least one can see that it is possible to eliminate what is pure complaints, for an effective and thorough complaint handling, and we welcome the Government's proposals on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e82	For the treatment of Ot.prp. No 96, on the part of the government parties, we are very pleased that we have had such a good process in the committee, and we are very pleased with the result in such an important matter. I must also be allowed to say that the rapporteur here has done a very good job. The new organisation of control over the performance of police and prosecution services was now necessary, and I am pleased that a unanimous committee is behind the establishment of a new central body responsible for investigating reports of police and prosecution staff. Police work within all walks of life, with different ethnic groups and in different places in the country. They have been allocated complex and diverse tasks, with high expectations and requirements for the services provided. The work of the police shall therefore always be governed by the applicable rules. Today, the police have great confidence in the population, and so it must be in the future. The fact that the police now have new or expanded methods, and not least new powers, also means that the change that Odelstinget will adopt this evening means that we can be even more confident that when the police work is investigated, it is made by independent and in confidence. That is why it is absolutely necessary that we make this change today, because there have recently been some objections to the quality and confidence of the investigation carried out by SEFO. This proposal therefore provides for the establishment of a central body with regional offices. In addition to the establishment of the central body of full-time employees, I am pleased that there has been a majority in the establishment of regional offices. It is very positive that the government is given the opportunity to assess where it is most appropriate to set up offices, based on where there are statistically most cases, and on what kinds of issues there are. These regional units must be made completely independent of the work of police and prosecution authorities. The central unit and the regional offices, if any, will together be able to achieve the objective of effective, independent and reliable control of the provision of services. Right-wing believes that it is very important that the Police Special Unit is given the prosecution competence for all cases in which the Attorney General has the prosecution competence today. It is quite natural that the prosecution competence is conferred on the head of the central body, where the manager has legal background. In order to ensure the safe and uniform handling of complaints against police or prosecution officers, a different system is needed. There may be complaints relating to non-crime, e.g.: unlawful conduct by the police. This right of appeal is important in order to maintain trust in the establishment, and it is also important that those who complain are dealt with unwarrantedly. For the Right and the Government, it is essential that we have a complaint procedure that facilitates the handling of complaints about the performance of the service, and also to respond if there has been an infringement. People who feel poorly treated must have the opportunity to go somewhere with their criticism. That is why the employers’ responsibility of the police officers is very important. It is they who can best follow up on the critical issues, and I therefore ask the Government to take it into account when they come back to the issue of complaint in terms of critical matters, which we are going to consider in the Stortinget at a later stage. Right wants a system that initially lowers the threshold for the complainant, and if there is a hold in the complaint, there should of course have consequences for police and prosecution staff.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e101	As others have been in the past evening, this matter is essentially about trust. It's about single citizens, it's about public institutions, and it's about big business and government and all of us who are part of society, our trust in the police and the police's social role. As others have also experienced before, the police are in a special position to exercise power and to ensure that adopted rules and laws are complied with. Thus, they stand in a special position. This right they have, and they have to have it. At the same time, there must be a framework tool to enable those who do not comply with the rules to be seen in the cards and, if necessary, to receive the punishment they deserve. So it's essentially just in every context that trust is at the bottom, across the system. Complaining to the police, I think there are probably a lot of people who can experience it as very difficult. Just because the police have the role they have, it's probably the barrier to be able to intervene and get something done, very difficult. Nor is it necessarily the case that the police are something worse than others, on the contrary, I hope. At the same time, there has been a relatively large proportion of cases where the police have been reported for different circumstances. As my dear colleague, Mr Hofstad, was in place, it will be necessary to have the opportunity to go into this and check it. Then we have to have a system that ensures it. An unhinderedness has to be present. If we don't, we won't move on. The intention of this proposal is to create greater trust. The new scheme will cultivate the possibility of controlling and investigating policemen who are suspected of having done something. It is absolutely essential that the system appear unhidden. Although there are many provisions, which the representative of Storberget was in, in no way means that policemen are worse than others, it must be that the system is reliable and stable. For our part, we in the Progress Party have a dissenting view of one point here. It goes on that we want a nationwide unit serving the whole country. We have therefore opposed the regional anchoring of which the other majority has opted. We believe that the best way to ensure a consistent responsibility is to have one nationwide body. We believe that once you spread it, you also have the possibility of deviations from how you perceive things to be done, and you also powder parts of the service provision and the possibility of immortality in it. That is why we have said that we want a nationwide unit, and I am addressing the proposals of the Progress Party immediately. The appeal system, to which the Government will come back, is probably the most important thing in this regard. At least I see that is what is going to eliminate the complaints from ordinary people into the system. Then there will be more possibilities. It may be that you simply find the complaint unfounded, I believe. It may be that the complaint is of such a calibre that it becomes an employer's responsibility, and it is handled in this way, or that it is seen that the severity is such as to require further investigation. At least that means, as I see it, that you're covering up most of the eventualities that are present. That is the strength of all of this: we must avoid any mistrust of the police. We can't afford that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e116	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e119	I'm not going to spend very long time. I agree with everything that has been said on the part of the rapporteur and others here, among others. Linda Hofstad, on what is the majority position. SV is very happy that we are now going to have a change that will hopefully give us better confidence in how criminal matters are handled in the future. What I want to focus a little on is complaint handling. I see it as something of the utmost importance that is going to happen in the future, because a lot of the mistrust that has been against today's SEFO, probably has its reason that a lot of complaints about critics, but not criminal, relationships. Therefore, these cases have been dismissed. On the SV side, we believe that it would make sense to add the complaint procedure to the new Special Unit, and to complain about both criticism and criminality to one place. I think for the time being that it would make sense, simply because the audience will have problems distinguishing between what is a critical relationship and what is a criminal relationship. I think that if we're going to be able to establish a better trust in the new Special Unit than SEFO has, it's necessary to clarify this, that it's added one place, and that also the audience gets the impression that when they complain about something they've experienced as an overtramp, it has a consequence. I don't think we can care about adding this only to the police action sail, but that this must be something that's added to someone outside. So I think it should be collected in the new special unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e128	Police are the only powers allowed to exercise power in peacetime. Police powers are necessary and justified by the need for social security and protection against crime. In Norway, we have a very competent police force. The budget has great confidence in the population, and many officials are making an effort far beyond what we can expect. We must remember this when we are discussing today how we are going to handle reviews and complaints against the police and prosecution authorities. Employees of the police and prosecution authorities may also suffer from errors. We have seen examples of gross insensibility in the ministry and negligent killing in the course of police work. Infringement of such a nature must be reacted quickly and clearly to. It is very important that investigations and prosecutions against police and prosecution staff are carried out in a reliable manner. The special investigative body for investigation and prosecution of police officers and officers has, over a number of years, been severely criticised. The criticism has been justified by the lack of a sufficient distance between the members of SEFO and those under investigation. Criticism has also been directed at the quality of the work carried out by SEFO, as the rate of accommodation is very high. Police have been given more and more methods to solve crime and have been given greater opportunity to use coercive and forceful means. The evolution of crime in the future may require additional methods and means of power to curb crime. However, this requires that we have an effective, independent and reliable device that controls police activity. An effective control system will itself be an important factor in strengthening the role of the police. If the new Police Special Forces Unit is to gain the trust of people, it must work independently of the police. In the Christian People's Party, therefore, we believe that those associated with the special unit should not have their daily activities in the police. Trust also depends on a rapid response to possible criminal offences by the police. The need for rapid investigation is likely to indicate the establishment of regional departments in the Special Unit. In the Christian People's Party, we have confidence that the Ministry of Justice will place the Special Unit in an appropriate way to achieve the objectives of effective, independent and reliable control of police service. It appears from the proposal that the Ministry will return to the Stortinget with a proposal to deal with complaints against police and prosecution officials. There is a need for a structured and public-friendly model of policy management. Persons who believe they are being mistreated by the police rarely have a clear view of whether the police have violated the criminal law or only acted in a critical way. They want to point out wrong, and whether they choose to call it complaint or notification is often random. In such cases, there is an advantage to the fact that there is one body dealing with cases of censure on the part of the police and the prosecution authority. If there is one body dealing with allegations of criminal offences and another dealing with cases of reprehensible conduct that are not affected by the criminal law, the offender will be confused and often contacted by a lawyer. In addition, there will be two departments with tasks that significantly overlap. It is important that the Ministry assesses several models for the treatment of policy stocks, so that the Storting can decide on the most appropriate scheme on a broad basis. Unlawful action by police and prosecution officers must be assessed in accordance with both the provisions of the Criminal Code and the ethical requirements that must be imposed on police officers. The leaders of the police department must be aware of their employer's responsibilities and act in a manner which is justified by the misapprehension of an employee. This applies even if the penal code is not broken. However, it is clear that police and prosecution officers shall have no lower legal certainty than that of other professional groups in that country. The attention of the many policemen who carry out their work in an excellent way calls for clear responses to bad behaviour. The need for police confidence in all groups of the population is similar. It's important that we now get a special unit for police matters that inspires trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e154	The government has proposed the reorganization of a separate investigation body for the police and the prosecution authority. The aim of the proposal is to ensure public confidence that investigations and prosecution decisions against police and prosecution officials are carried out in the most unwarranted and independent manner possible. The proposed changes will ensure a more secure and consistent treatment of those who will report to the police or prosecution authority. In addition, the system will improve legal certainty for police or prosecution staff accused of unlawful acts. A national investigative body of its own will also enhance the quality of the investigation. Today’s system of special investigative agencies, SEFO, has been criticised from different levels. The police and prosecution authorities depend on the public having full confidence in how they carry out their tasks. That is why we must also ensure that the control of the activities of the police and the prosecution authority is legitimate. Today's SEFO seems to lack the necessary trust and legitimacy among the audience. The government is committed to establishing a mechanism that has a high level of trust and widespread dissatisfaction, and has therefore proposed major changes in the organisation of the investigation of reports against police and prosecutors. The proposal provides for the establishment of a new central body responsible for investigating reports against police and prosecution officers. It is also proposed that this body be given the right to appeal for all cases in which the State Attorney has the right to appeal under the Criminal Procedures Act, § 67, sixth paragraph, today. Furthermore, it is proposed that the new body should be given regional units which will be able to carry out the investigation in their regions where the nature and scope of the case do not indicate that the main department in the East is taking over the case. This is the Government's proposal, and I'll come back to the committee's consideration. The Rønenberg Committee concluded, inter alia: the quality of the work of SEFO was satisfactory. It is therefore important that the future scheme continues to provide positive elements relating to competence, composition and presence in all parts of the country when regional departments are set up. At the same time, I believe that a transfer of prosecution competence will clarify and underline the body's independent position, and the transfer is likely to be in line with the public's perception of the functions of the new body. In addition, the new system of a central body ensures the necessary coordination and non-discrimination, and I believe that the scheme will provide the public with better understanding and control of the treatment and outcome of the investigation through increased availability and dissemination of information. I can agree with the description of the procedure given by the rapporteur of the case, the representative of Storberget. Both the Government's proposals and the work of the Committee will give us a good result. I am therefore pleased that the Committee supports the creation of a new central body that will be responsible for investigating reports against police and prosecution officers. At the same time, I have noticed that the committee will legislate that the investigation of police and prosecution officers will be managed by a separate central body. I welcome the fact that the majority of the Committee is in favour of the establishment of regional offices governed by the Central Unit and that the majority believe that it is within the Government’s authority to organise regional units as it deems most appropriate in order to achieve the objective of ensuring the most reliable and independent control of the performance of the services of the police and prosecution authorities. In the context of the legislative proposal, the Government expressed the need to examine the handling of complaints about police service performance in the police action. Complaint handling is central to ensuring citizens’ confidence in the performance of their duties in the department. The Committee points out that it is important that complaints of unlawful conduct against police and prosecutors are dealt with more thoroughly than is the case today, and the Committee asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible with proposals for a modified model for the handling of such complaints. I have also noted the Committee's emphasis that models of complaint handling other than a separate complaint and supervisory body should also be investigated by the Ministry, and I will return to the matter as soon as possible. I agree with those representatives who have stressed that the review process is central to confidence, and I am also pleased that the Committee on this point stresses that, in addition to the procedure that must always take place and which underlines the importance of the employer's tasks, there must also be something more to ensure that there is adequate trust between the public and the police. I am therefore pleased with the broad agreement given to the Government's proposals. The further development of certain aspects of the Committee is of such a nature that I can join it and will work on the basis of the majority position on which the Committee has based this matter. We can then congratulate each other on getting a body that is important for strengthening trust in the vital work of the police in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e175	This matter has a special starting point, namely that the most trusted professional group in the country is the police. At the same time, we know that the investigative body where police and others are investigating policemen has low confidence. That is why I am pleased that there is now a broad majority in favour of the reorganisation of the work of investigating employees in the police and the prosecution authority. A sample, the Rønenberg Committee, was set up to examine the quality and process of SEFO. They concluded that the quality of the investigations carried out by SEFO bodies was satisfactory. But as the sample said, it also revealed ‘partly striking differences between the different organs’. This was true both in relation to the initiation of investigations, the length of proceedings and the quality of investigations. In the light of this and the criticisms made against SEFO in the media, the Ministry has found it necessary to carry out an assessment of the organisation of the scheme with the special investigative body. One of the moments that I've noticed, and as the committee has noticed, is that 30 pst. the notifications submitted to SEFO were, in reality, complaints about critical but not criminal matters. There have also been others involved. In other words, there is some lack of knowledge about what is a criminal relationship, and what is a critical relationship. This may be because those who complain are not fully aware of the law, or it may be because the lawyer who acts on behalf of a client is eager to use SEFO when there should have been a complaint about ordinary police work. I have to say that what becomes very important now on this happy day, when this is adopted, is that you get a body that can also give out good information about what are actually critical issues that need to be addressed as an employer/employee case, i.e. a responsibility for the police chief, and what is a criminal relationship. I think it's necessary to clarify the distinctions here in order to get the body we're now asking for, namely, a body with broad confidence. I am very pleased that there is such broad consensus in this matter. We need a new central body, and that's what others have said very well about. But I'm very concerned that this information must be patent. It must come out so that the body can quickly provide the public, the media, not least, the tabloid press and others with clear information on what is critical and what is criminal. Then I think they had come a lot further, and then I also think that the chief of police could better carry out his employer's responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e189	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 100]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e205	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will suggest that there are no replications after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e212	Today, we have a system in which the competence to take action in criminal matters is shared between the police, the state attorney and the state attorney, respectively, depending on the nature of the offender and the criminal framework. This autumn, the Judicial Committee dealt with changes to the Criminal Procedures Act, which means that police lawyers’ prosecution powers are extended. As a new rule, the government proposes to give police prosecution jurisdiction in all cases of crimes that cannot lead to prison for more than one year. The government is in favour of continuing police prosecution in cases of higher penalties than one year, where the police are already competent today. Finally, the Government proposes to give the police prosecution powers in some further cases, such as: issues of gross and grossly negligent fraud and some drug and doping crimes. It will also be necessary to amend the Criminal Procedures Act in order to provide the police with appeals in cases of crimes that cannot lead to imprisonment for more than one year. In order not to weaken confidence in the independence of the police, crimes against the public authority are for the future also attributed to the state attorney. The aim of the changeover is to reduce the time spent in the criminal proceedings in which the police lawyers are suing. Overall, this will represent a relatively large number of cases. The scheme will also relieve the State attorneys to some extent. The implementation takes place after a careful review of the organisation and tasks of the higher prosecution authority. It cannot be ruled out that, after a while of functioning, there may be a need to extend the borderline between police and state attorneys’ prosecution competences. This depends, of course, on the success of the new enlargement and on the achievement of the objectives of improved efficiency in the criminal response chain. The hearing bodies supporting the proposal to extend police prosecution competence have shared views on how far to go. However, the Committee is unanimous in favour of the least extensive proposal to extend prosecution competence to police lawyers. That is to say, the proposal to give police prosecution powers in cases of crimes that cannot result in prison sentences for more than one year. There has been strong opposition in the higher prosecution authority to extending police prosecution competence. This resistance calls for a step - by - step approach. The proposal reduces the involvement of the State Attorney's Office in a number of cases. The objective is to strengthen legal certainty by bringing suspected and accused cases to justice more quickly. Many things go almost unchanged from the police through the state attorney to the district court. There is also no strong indication that the judgements and competences of police lawyers have been deficient and doubted. I would like to urge the National Advocate, with his concern, to possibly assist the police lawyers with adequate advice and support. The police lawyers, who often work closely with investigators and detectives, probably have far better firsthand knowledge of the matter than the state attorney wants. It would be a clear advantage for the police to also process the case before the District Court, because this knowledge could give the matter a more thorough treatment. Delays and unnecessary time loss in proceedings will also be factors affecting any suspected or accused person’s legal protection. In many cases, increased prosecution powers for the police will reduce the time from the time of the offence to the time of the conviction. Long proceedings will weaken the reputation of the actors in the criminal response chain. Often it is appropriate that the person who has filed an action should also bring the case before the tribunal. There is reason to believe that such a solution will often serve both the efficiency and the quality of the procedure. But this can easily create practical complications and prevent new employees from activating matters. It is therefore not required that the same official who takes the action should act on the matter. The conversion will contribute to a better use of resources in the criminal justice chain and will also be important to maintain confidence in the sanctioning system. A rapid response strengthens the effect of the punishment. Several hearing bodies support the proposal to extend police prosecution competence. This applies, inter alia, to: the courts of Oslo and Trondheim, the Court of Justice, the Police Directorate, Økokrim, the Norwegian Bar Association and the Norwegian Judicial Association. Today’s legal system for the competence of police lawyers in criminal proceedings law, combined with a supplementary regulation, can be seen in practice as somewhat unfair and not transparent. The police's prosecution competence shall be directly demonstrated by the law. In order to ensure the quality of the appeals made in criminal proceedings, this should be attributed to the more qualified police lawyers by means of their own delegation decision. A further extension of police prosecution competence should be considered in the light of the experience gained from this amendment and, where appropriate, after the evaluation of the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e252	The Labour Party supports the proposals and is part of the majority in this case. But I would like to point out that we take the objections in relation to the issue of legal certainty seriously. The objections that have arisen, both from the Advocate General and the other prosecution authorities, are such that there is a basis for stopping and staying to know if that is not the case, as the Advocate General said in his statement, that we are now going to signal outwards that it is important to go “scrupulously” ahead, as he said. It's a very important principle that taking out charges, as well as assessing appeals, is subject to a very thorough assessment. As far as the issue of prosecution is concerned, it is quite clear that something very important is happening in the courts and in the criminal justice chain when charges are brought. Then the matter somehow gets its own dynamics, and one raises the matter and the evidence in many ways above a threshold that many of the actors, either consciously or unconsciously, relate to at least a certain degree of calm, in the sense that one thinks that it has now been appealed, and then the evidence has been properly assessed in the matter. And for that reason, it has been and is very important that the most serious criminal cases are assessed twice. However, when the Workers' Party finds reason to support the Government's proposals in this field, it is primarily because this involves a substantial legalisation of what has been the practice in force. Secondly, the need for a swift criminal procedure is very important. Getting a quick reaction is often more important than getting a strict response. And finally, the whole structural change and the structural discussion we've had in the criminal justice chain over the last few years is of such a nature that it also invites to make these changes. I would like to mention in particular what has been done in relation to the Norwegian police force. There have been several police lawyers gathered in fewer places and built up skills environments that actually lead to social and professional control over what was previously done, when some lawyers were sitting alone and had to sue, and, in some cases, also taking out speakers. In other words, larger trade unions have been established. And then you finally got the two-institutional system in the courts, which ensures that you deal with the case twice, and which also invites you to do as Odelstinget does today, to ease the process in terms of prosecuting charges and assessing the issue of appeal. For the Workers' Party, it is also important, and we believe it is very good, that we have received a unanimous proposal that this should be further evaluated in relation to capacity, and to the most extent also on the basis of legal certainty considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e263	From the point of view of the Progress Party, the extension of the prosecution competence of police lawyers is an increase in efficiency, with some duplication of work being avoided. In some demarcated areas, the police lawyer is required to carry out work which will then be forwarded to a further assessment of the decision. As the rapporteur pointed out, the closeness of the police lawyer to the course of proceedings up to possible appeals could also be appropriate. Even in the case of prosecution, this close knowledge could have positive effects. It is right that duties and competences should be respected, and it is imperative that a person should ensure that the necessary competence exists where there is an increased competence for the prosecution. In any case, the decisions of the police lawyers will, of course, continue to be subject to judicial review, up the system. The progress party believes there is a lot to be gained by using the competence where it is to be picked up. We are of the opinion that there would be enough room for further delegation and transfer of competence. Nevertheless, we see the need for a good evaluation through the impact of this transfer of competences. One can then go through this and see what can be done better, where any resources should be deployed to increase the impact, what needs to be done, and, where appropriate, where one can increase the competence of police lawyers, in order to obtain a natural and good clarification. What should be a good effect of this extension of the prosecution competence is that one can obtain a faster clarification of whether or not an appeal is made. There has been a lot of talk here in this Chamber about the need for rapid response to crime, especially among young first-time offenders, and so now you're going to be able to get a faster answer to the question of prosecution, and at least that will contribute positively in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e276	Today, the police are taking out charges and settling other charges in criminal matters and in cases of specific crimes. The police have today, for example, prosecution competence in matters relating to theft and bodily insults. In the proposal, the Government proposes that the police should, as a general rule, have jurisdiction over prosecutions in all cases that cannot lead to imprisonment for more than one year. Any derogation from this rule is proposed. For example, it is proposed that crimes against public officials should be exempted from police prosecution. This, in the view of the Christian People's Party, is a reasonable delimitation. In our opinion, the prosecution competence in cases where police officers are offended should not lie with the police lawyers, for reasons of objectivity and confidence in the prosecution decision. The proposal also proposes to empower police lawyers in some cases where the criminal framework exceeds one year. This applies, for example: in drug-related crime issues. According to the Christian People's Party's assessment, this is wise, not least because there is a need for more rapid criminal proceedings. The effectiveness of criminal proceedings must always be balanced against quality and legal certainty. It appears from the proposal that some hearing bodies consider that the work of police lawyers is not of such a quality that enhanced prosecution competence is sound. Other, e.g. The judiciary, the Judicial Association and the Association of Lawyers disagree and believe that the police lawyers are fully qualified to hold the prosecution competence proposed in the proposal. That we have a lot of very good police lawyers, there's no doubt about it. However, it is important that we ensure the quality of the prosecution work in the prosecution authority through recruitment and training. However, we need to be cautious, so that the struggle for power between the different levels of the prosecution authority does not result in police lawyers getting a worse reputation than they deserve. When dealing with proposals for new criminal law, it would be natural to reconsider the jurisdiction of the prosecution, in the light of the experience we then have with the division of powers within the prosecution authority. In the Christian People's Party, we are not strangers to the further expansion of the prosecution competence of police lawyers. But it assumes that we are reaping good experience with the changes in the law that the Storting is making today. For the sake of legal certainty, we should proceed with caution with regard to the extension of the judicial capacity of police lawyers. We're doing that through the proposed legislative changes. The future will show whether further expansion of competence is appropriate. We must be open to all measures that contribute to better flow in the criminal justice chain – but we must never go to a chord with legal certainty!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e293	Odelstingen is currently considering a bill to give police lawyers greater prosecution powers. Police lawyers shall be empowered to take action against more types of crime than at present. The starting point is that, in addition to indictment of criminal offences, the police can now also prosecute cases of crimes that cannot result in prison sentences for more than one year. In addition, the police shall have the competence to prosecute for some specifically identified crimes which may lead to longer prison sentences. With this bill, the Government follows up the Stortingen decision of 5 December 2002, where the Stortingen asked the Government to promote legislative proposals for enhanced law enforcement powers to the police. In addition, the Odelstingsproposition proposes a certain extension of the appeal competence of police lawyers, minor changes to the rules on the delegation of the prosecutor’s appeal competence and clarification of the rules on who will lead the prosecutor in criminal proceedings. The changes come as part of the government’s work to streamline and improve the resolution of criminal cases. In the proposal, which was sent to the hearing, the Ministry of Justice presented two alternative proposals for the extension of the judicial capacity of police lawyers. One proposal was more far-reaching than the other. A majority of the hearing bodies agreed that police prosecution powers should be extended, but there were shared views on how far a change should be. Some hearing bodies were in favour of a more extensive extension than had been proposed. At the same time, however, some, especially from the state lawyers and the National Attorney, objected to moving more of the prosecution competence from the state attorneys to the police. The critical views of the Advocates-General and the Advocate General contributed to the Government's legislative proposals being based on the least extensive of the proposals put forward by the Department in the consultation note. I believe that the present legislative proposal is in a good way counterbalanced to some of the cross-cutting considerations in this area, which were emphasised during the hearing. As the Justice Committee also points out in its position, the conversion will contribute to a better use of resources in the criminal justice chain. The extension of police lawyers’ prosecution competence facilitates more appropriate and effective criminal proceedings. In this context, I also believe – in the same way as the Justice Committee – that it is important to highlight the importance of a rapid response in many cases to the impact of the punishment. The ability of the system to respond quickly will also generally help to maintain public confidence in the police, prosecution authorities and courts. Long-term proceedings may, in the worst cases, weaken the reputation of the criminal justice system and hence people's confidence in public law enforcement. In relation to the victim, the amendment of the law will also ensure a faster procedure. At the same time, it is of great importance to maintain a very high quality in the prosecution decisions. The legal certainty of the person to whom it is addressed and of the offended in the case must be maintained. The proposed legislation takes that into account. In particular, I would like to stress that, in the future, the Attorney General will also be responsible for the professional management of police lawyers in their prosecution work, and that in the future, there will also be a good opportunity for the prosecutors to exercise this leadership. In addition, targeted training of police lawyers will be provided. I have noticed that it is a unanimous justice that gives its support to the assessments of the Government at these points expressed in the odelstningsproposition. I have also noticed that a unanimous committee agrees with the concrete amendments in the proposal. I choose to see this as a good sign that there is a cross-political willingness to work for more appropriate and effective criminal settlement. Furthermore, I have noticed that the Committee will ask the Ministry to consider a further extension of police prosecution competence in the light of the experience gained from these legislative changes. The Ministry will assess the borderline between police and state attorneys’ prosecution powers in the context of the work on new criminal law. And I have, of course, also noticed the Committee's emphasis on the positive in always evaluating what you do, both in order to learn and in order to develop better insight and wisdom in the changes you adopt. I have good hope that the intentions of the legislative changes will be fulfilled, and that with this we will contribute to better and more effective criminal justice care.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e312	I feel the need to link a small note to this treatment. On the SV side, we were very uncertain about where we were going to land, because there have been good objections to expanding the prosecution powers of police lawyers, especially the higher prosecution authorities, which many have been involved. What made the decision for our part was that we had an impact on an evaluation in retrospect, where we also need to assess whether to reverse this. If it turns out that efficiency is at the expense of quality, or that it is not effective at all because of lack of capacity, for example, we believe it must be possible to go back on something we have done, if it turns out not to work properly. So we're very happy about this. There is a typographical error on page 5 of the configuration, which reads ‘This member promotes the following proposals’. It shall read ‘The Committee shall submit the following proposals’.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e321	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 101]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e337	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e344	The Government suggests in Ot. pp. No 99 for 2002-2003 to raise the requirement of anchor anchorages to the law of the team from NOK 20 000 to NOK 50 000. A case involving an amount of less than NOK 50000 may have a significant impact on those involved. However, for these, the process risk will also have a significant impact on the assessment of whether a case should be filed. The cost of appeals may be substantial. This also applies to matters relating to limited values. The Judicial Committee, in its assessment of the Government’s proposal for the cancellation of appeals, has placed considerable emphasis on the opening of § 359 of the Arbitration Act to appeals irrespective of the value of the subject-matter of the dispute. If the decision on a case is presumed to have an effect in addition to the case itself, or where the case is of great importance to the party making the case, the case may be brought before it even if it relates to a sum less than NOK 50000. The Committee has also stressed the need to make reasonable use of judicial resources. Judicial proceedings are expensive for the parties and for society. It is therefore necessary to have a reasonable relationship between the resources used by the parties and society in the process and the importance of the disputes on which the resources are used. The Progress Party does not support the proposal to raise the appeal sum. This is justified by the lack of statistics on law enforcement cases dealing with values between NOK 20000 and NOK 50000. That's weird. When deciding whether to raise the amount of the appeal, it is necessary to consider the costs of judicial proceedings for all the parties involved. It is also necessary to know that in any case important matters can be dealt with under the terms of Section 359 of the Law on Disputes. When, through its opposition to the proposal, the Party of Presidents, in effect, requires the courts to have a statistical overview of all cases dealt with, it shows that there is a lack of understanding of the workload faced by the courts. Our courts have a workload that lies in the border country against the irresponsible on the basis of the capacity. It is irresponsible to impose tasks on those who are not productive. Now, as we raise the appeal sum, there is reason to believe that this will reduce the workload in the law, and that is good, but most importantly, the lifting is based on a reasonable balance between legal certainty and the economics of the parties. The Christian People's Party supports the Government's proposal because we think it's right both in relation to society and in relation to the parties to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e370	The Progress Party sees it as a clear advantage to resolve as many cases as possible outside the courts. Experience has shown that there is still a need for the courts to resolve disputes. There are several ways to reduce the workload in the courts. One option is to increase capacity, the other option is to strangulate the amount of case. As I've understood the majority, it's the last solution you try to work for. So the question is whether to raise the amount of the claim from NOK 20 000 to NOK 50 000. In particular, it should be asked what effect this has, taking into account the fact that it is the sum of many of the more expensive consumer goods. If you are concerned about ensuring that consumers have the opportunity to try their case, you should be very careful here. Questions were asked to the Department for an overview of the impact this would have. Then you have to know, how many things are there? And will it have any effect if some of these issues have changed their outcome by an appeal? So this was pretty hard to get any answer to. It's not right, as the representative Marthinsen tries to give the impression, that we want the courts to use their resources to keep statistics on their affairs. All we wanted was for the Council of State to explain the consequences of the proposals he made to the Stortinget. I notice that the majority in the Biggest didn't think it was as important. When we have not really got what this will look like, especially in consumer matters, the Progress Party wants to oppose this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e383	Our legal system allows the individual to have his case tried in several instances. Our legal tradition and human rights require it to be so. I'm glad. The Ministry of Justice is now working with a new Dispute Settlement Act to replace today's Dispute Settlement Act of 13 August 1915. So, in a moment, we're going to deal with the whole system of rules for the judicial process in civil disputes. So what size is going to be treated is a slight change in law. Although I look forward to a review of the entire dispute case law, I think it is practical that we can implement a change in the dispute case law § 356 on appeals already now. In a civil case, as a general rule, one will go first to the Conciliation Board, then to the District Court, and some also want to appeal their case to the two highest courts. Our civil justice system deals with everything from small to extensive disputes. Today, you must have the agreement of the Lawyers' Court if you want to promote an appeal relating to a property value of less than NOK 20 000. This amount was last changed in 1991, 12 years ago. It's been a certain price rise since then. The bill we are discussing today means that we raise this sum to NOK 50 000. In my opinion, raising an appeal to the law will be a contribution to streamlining the procedure, because we need to ask ourselves the question of how we use the judicial resources as wisely as possible. In my view, there should be a reasonable relationship between the resources used by the parties and society in the dispute and the economic value of the dispute. Today's costs to lawyers and the expenses of the Court of Justice indicate that a dispute of NOK 50 000 at the time it is appealed to the Lawyers' Court has already resulted in costs far higher. So I want to reduce the amount of the case to the law of the team, but in no way will I limit the ability of the little man to come forward with an appeal in matters that are crucial to him. In the future, the amendment of the law will also be able to appeal to cases where the dispute is worth less than NOK 50 000, as it is today for cases less than NOK 20 000. The important thing is the importance of the case to the person who is anchoring. I therefore believe that raising the appeal sum to the law of the law is in no way a threat to the rights of the common man. The party of progress has as its only party opposed the amendment of the law. I find that somewhat inconsistent in view of their focus on processing time in other cases. The Progress Party says, among other things: in its 2004 proposal for an alternative State budget, it points out that there is a need to improve the flow of justice in the criminal chain, and points out that the courts are struggling to keep the time limits set by the Grand Duchy for dealing with cases. But the Progress Party does not say anything about the flow of civil matters in its alternative budget, but I expect that they are also concerned about the waiting time for civil matters. There are today major remains of civil cases in the courts. So, as I mentioned, important matters could in any case be appealed on the basis of Section 359 of the Law on Disputes. For most people, therefore, the appeal is guaranteed in matters of importance to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e401	I will just make a few brief comments on this matter. In its investigation, NOU 2001:32, Court of First Instance, Dispute Resolution Act, the Committee of Disputes [[Law of Disputes]] There should be a reasonable relationship between the resources used by the parties and society in the dispute and the economic value of the disputed item. The limit of NOK 20 000 has not changed since 1991 and is unnaturally low in relation to the monetary value and process costs. We are concerned with increasing efficiency in the courts. The Lawyer’s right may give consent to the promotion of appeals under the appeal sum in individual cases, as set out below. § 359 of the Arbitration Act, where the decision is relevant outside the present case, or where the matter is of great importance to the adjudicating party. The rules of appeal apply only in cases of economic interest and not in cases of non-economic or non-profit making values. During the hearing, the majority of the hearing bodies welcomed the fact that the appeal sum could be raised in relation to the level of the day. However, the hearing bodies did not agree on how much the appeal sum should be raised. This disagreement referred to amounts above NOK 50 000. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the Government's proposals. I've also noticed the arguments that the minority uses. Here are a few brief comments: the rational use of the resources of the courts and the efficiency of the courts must outweigh the need for certain consumer cases to be brought before the law. Here I would like to point out that, for consumer matters, there are several alternative dispute resolution bodies, including: Consumer Council and Consumer Dispute Committee. I assume that the labor burden of the law will be somewhat reduced, and that this again could mean shorter processing time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e424	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 102]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e440	The proposals in Ot.prp. No 3 for 2003-2004 is a follow-up to EU Directive 2000/35/EC. In the bill, the government proposes several changes to the late interest rate law. The monthly period in Section 2 of the Act is changed to a 30-day period. This will give a practical and fair rule. The length of the payment period will be the same for all debtors. It also proposes changes in the way in which the interest rate for late payment is set. The interest rate shall now be fixed twice per year by the Ministry of Finance. year, according to the details of the law. Some hearing bodies consider that setting interest rates twice per year. years could create difficulties for smaller enterprises in collecting claims due. In this respect, the Judicial Committee has stressed that the Directive does not give Norway freedom of choice as regards the setting of interest rates. A new procedural rule is added to the law. It implies that organisations representing small and medium-sized enterprises may bring legal proceedings for testing whether the terms of standard payment time agreements or the consequences of late payment would be unfair to the creditor. Various studies show that late payment is a major problem for businesses in Europe. The problem is particularly great for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is important that payment is made in due time. The development of international legislation that contributes to this precisely is therefore a positive view of an overall justice policy. The changes made by the Storting today in the Late Interest Rate Act will contribute to more punctual payment in trading conditions. Experience shows that changes in the laws are necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e457	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 103]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e470	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e480	During the debate, Mr Ellingsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the following proposal: ‘A central body shall be set up to investigate reports against police and prosecution officers.’;» This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e568	The progressing party has announced that they are going against the seventh paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e583	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e593	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e603	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e712	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e722	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e732	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e766	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e779	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Progress Party to be opposed here too.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e793	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e859	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e869	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20-lower.ana.ud1302e880	There is no record.
