ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e75	The representatives of Rolf Rikvam, Karin Andersen and Hill-Marta Solberg, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Harald Espelund For Finnmark County: Just Hjalmar Johansen For the province of Hordaland: Frode Hervik For the Rogaland State: Silver Sivertsen For Troms County: Leif Christian Johansen For Southern Tribute County: Ola Røtvej
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e115	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e120	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen and Ranveig Frøiland.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e125	Kjell Engebertsen and Ranveig Frøiland are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen and Ranveig Frøiland are unanimously elected as presidents of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e133	Before the matters on today’s map are dealt with, the President will refer to the fact that, for today’s meeting, any evening meeting has been set up. It turns out that with the proposed speaking times for today's matters, there will be an evening meeting, perhaps until noon. 21 o'clock, or 2 o'clock. Twenty-two! – This is for the representatives' briefing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e147	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1849]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e163	The government's notice of appointment may be favourably subject to a small facelift. For example, an initial chapter providing information on the appointment of officials over time could provide the Storting with important information and help to put control of the Government’s appointment of officials in a slightly broader perspective. An overall committee then also requests that the next year's notification should include assessments of the evolution of the number of applicants and of the professional background and age composition of the applicants. Only on one point is there disagreement within the committee. The question of asking the Government to use the right of appointment to ensure a better gender balance. Here is the Workers' Party and the SV alone. Right and Christian People's Party is right to ask the Government to work actively in that direction, but will not say in what way. On the one hand, the party of progress will focus on professional criteria and ignores gender as a criterion. Looking at recruitment in some sectors, such as the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. The defense, there can be no doubt that there is a significant under-representation of women. At the leadership level, women are so to say absent. This should have a conscious relationship with, and be willing to use, the instruments established by the Law. It hasn't been very long since a council from the Right ordered 40 pst to be filled in. women of all walks of life. The fact that the Right Magnifying Group made that proposal a very unfavorable fate is not something we get done with. It's basically just to complain. Otherwise, I would just like to refer to the vote and to propose that the report be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e178	On behalf of the Government, I would like to thank the Committee for its proposal on the face-lifting of this big message. We're grateful for that, and we're going to try to follow the good advice on getting an initial section that describes the background and its like. With regard to the issue of the proportion of women among the nominees, I think we share the Committee's whole concern that the proportion of women actually fell from 2001 to 2002. I also think there is a broad consensus that active measures are needed to ensure that we get a wider representation of women in the top positions as well. The government is working with concrete measures to get it done, but we believe that we can achieve it without going to strict quotas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e185	It was the rapporteur's remarks relating to the gender quota issue that made it necessary for me to make a brief statement on this matter. It's true that from the committee setting it might seem to be a disagreement, but one shouldn't make it bigger than it actually is. We support the objective of a better gender balance related to employment appointments, but the question will be which means to use and how far a person wants to go. What we're establishing is that we're following the principle of so-called moderate sex quota, that is. the absence of qualifications and the appointment of persons with lower qualifications in relation to who is to be given a job. However, on other equal terms, we believe that there may be grounds for preferring the underrepresented sex. It's a very important clarification, and I think it's actually also a relatively important political disagreement, but one shouldn't make it bigger than it actually is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e190	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1850]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e206	The Committee is unanimous here, and I will not explain this matter for a long time, but will only stress once again how pleased the Committee of Inquiry is with the results we have seen of the follow-up of the National Audit Office to the records of the State accounts. In the Committee's view, this annual follow-up to the 'For observation' cases has led to a better follow-up to the perceived management situation. Of course, it is important that we not only point out issues that need to be improved there and there, but that we also get feedback about what has actually happened, and the development of Document No. 3:1 also suggests that the administration has felt it as an appropriate whip or carrot compared to actually having these matters properly followed up. With that, I would just like to stress that the Committee, as I said, is well pleased with the follow-up of these matters by the National Audit Office and the Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e213	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1850]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e229	The report under consideration by the Monitoring Committee addresses the integration of environmental considerations into NORAD-funded aid measures and the results of these work. The review is based on 11 assistance measures in Tanzania and Sri Lanka under the performance areas of economic and social development. Furthermore, ODA-approved assistance for the period 1998-2000 has been reviewed in order to display volume and thematic and geographical arrangements. The study shows that the appropriations for environmental assistance have been very high, and in 2000 a total of 11 pst. of the Norwegian aid crowns used for such assistance. However, it has not been possible to identify the distribution of aid among the four main themes previously agreed by the Stortinget that environmental aid should be concentrated on, nor has it been possible to provide an overview of the share of aid that is contributing to the prevention of environmental degradation. When this is the case, and no one contests it, it is simply not good enough that the department has not informed the Stortinget about this. The National Audit Office also asks a legitimate question about the reporting of environmental assistance back to Stortingen, providing satisfactory information on what has been achieved and what the funds have actually been used for. The majority, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Progress Party have noted the Ministry's response and assume that progress is now being made to provide the information of which the Committee and the National Audit Office have referred to the desirability. It is not good enough for the National Audit Office to indicate that three out of four completed actions have failed to identify environmental concerns as having been addressed. I have also noticed that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will use input from the National Audit Office's report in the further work. Furthermore, I have also noted the disagreement between the Ministry and the National Audit Office on the responsibility of NORAD for monitoring and documenting environmental concerns when, in line with the principle of responsibility for the recipient countries, the action is responsible. I think it must be possible to reach agreement on the rules of the game for this with some goodwill. In summary, I would like to say that the report points to important issues that need to be addressed, and I assume that the Riksrevision will follow the case and give feedback to the Committee if the situation has not been resolved within a relatively short period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e246	Implementing management reports on the impact of environmental law assistance is important in order for the Storting to be able to produce an image of whether the results were as expected. There will always be a balance between the amount of resources used for such a post-control. There must be a reasonable relationship between inserting resources and the improvement you can document as a result of the control. In order to obtain the best possible comparison of the impact of this type of assistance between the different countries, it is reasonable to use common OECD/DAC codes and thus have common objectives to keep the results up to. The UN has seen international targets for global sustainable development. Norway's contribution to such a development must be measurable in an understandable way, so that Norway's efforts become visible to the Storing and to most people. It will be decisive for people's attention to this assistance in time to come. There is no doubt that this is a pedagogical task at the same time as a systemic challenge. The Committee was on its way, among others: in Bangladesh, and there was a clear emphasis – at least I believe it – on the environmental aspect.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e257	In its report on environmental assistance 1998-2000, the National Audit Office has highlighted significant weaknesses, including: for the overall reporting. We are constantly working to improve the management of Norwegian aid. We also want to give the Stortinget and the Norwegian public the best possible picture of the efforts and how they contribute to international poverty reduction and sustainable development, and here the Riksrevision report will be of good help. I would like to stress that the statistics on Norwegian environmental aid are generally good. Norwegian aid statistics are mainly based on international statistics produced by the OECD Development Committee (DAC). That's how it should be. The DAC sectoral codes allow us to provide overviews of specific environmental measures. In addition, on the Norwegian side, we also have a marker to keep statistics on actions where the environment is included as an integral part of major actions. However, making better use of the statistical base in reporting can be a challenge. This is something we'll look into. I note that the majority of the Supervisory Committee and the Constitutional Committee believe that the Council of State on its own initiative should have provided the Stortinget with information that it has not been possible to make a quantitative distribution of the environmental assistance in relation to the themes identified in the Stortinget's treatment of St.meld. No 19 for 1995-1996. I can say I agree with this. The difficulty lies in the fact that the international codes for distribution and reporting, the DAC codes, correspond only to a limited extent to the four areas of Norwegian environmental aid, as set out in the said EEA report. An alternative could be to define the objectives of Norwegian environmental assistance so that the DAC codes can be used to document the amount of aid used to follow up the various policy leaderships. In this context, it is also appropriate to consider how Norwegian policy leaders can be better placed towards the Millennium Goals. In addition, in order to improve reporting, it is appropriate to consider how to make better use of the existing statistical base and how to improve qualitative reporting in relation to the use of environmental aid. We are now looking at what the different approaches will provide in terms of new and reliable information in relation to resource use. These are among the questions we will address in the discussion between the Ministry and NORAD when the status of follow-up to the National Audit Office’s referrals is to be discussed at the meeting of the Executive Board to be held at the beginning of March. Although developments are international in the direction of joint planning and reporting — and I would like to stress this — it will in any case be a major challenge for us to improve the overall reporting to the Storing. A working group in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has recently been set up to work on this with a view to achieving improvements already in the 2004 budget. It'll be a first step. It is likely to be in future budgets that we will be able to put in place a satisfactory reporting system. We will include the National Audit Office's reports in this work. The National Audit Office reports are an important tool in improving the management of Norwegian assistance, and all key points in the review of environmental assistance by the National Audit Office will be addressed in the further dialogue with NORAD. In conclusion, I would like to point out that NORAD has a comprehensive assistance manual to facilitate quality assurance in development work. It also contains requirements for the assessment of sustainability elements, including the environment. As a follow-up to the National Audit Office’s comments on this point, NORAD has undertaken work to incorporate clearer instructions into the aid manual, while drawing up a clear and easily understandable environmental annex to the Manual. There shall be no room for doubt as to the essential requirements for the management of Norwegian aid funds. The arrangement NORAD is now working on, is largely based on extensive work by SIDA in Sweden, and the scheme is planned to be completed and put into service during the spring. I will end by repeating that I consider the Riksrevisions report to be a very useful tool in our further work to facilitate relevant and comprehensive information for the Storting and for society at large.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e283	I am pleased to stress to the Council of State that the work and report of the National Audit Office will be focused on the follow-up and work in the future. I have never doubted that this would be done, but it is a good thing that it is said so clearly from this pulpit. Otherwise, I would like to briefly highlight a point that we have made in the setting, namely the discussion about cause-effect relationships in relation to assistance. It is a problem that often turns out not only in aid policy but also in many other areas of society. Full knowledge of the impact of an aid project is difficult to obtain. In fact, if you were to get full knowledge and knowledge of the actual impact of an aid project, you had to realize that the aid project had not been implemented, and measured the situation today against a situation where it had not been implemented. You'll never be able to fully prove what's due to what, cause and effect, or call it chicken and egg. From the Right and Christian People's Party, we place emphasis on the fact that it is difficult to measure the effects of assistance by returning it to some projects, organisations or countries. Not least, this is difficult because there are often many donor countries involved. The country’s own policies and efforts to improve development are often difficult to show, and what is what is. But I think that with the work done by the Riksrevision, and the follow-up of the Department, we will be increasingly able to give better answers to this as well. But there's always a balance between what bureaucracy and reporting system is going to be built up, and the use of money to reach those who really need it. It was referred from Modulf Augan's page to our study trip to Bangladesh. It was very interesting, and it became very clear to those we met there, both representatives of the Norwegian authorities and the local environment, that this particular issue was taken seriously, but that this was problematic. But at least there was no doubt that the feedback we received was that the Norwegian authorities followed closely how the money was used, and that there was no lack of control and follow-up of these issues. It was in many ways a very useful study trip and very interesting, and it has been very relevant in relation to the matter we are now dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e292	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1850]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e308	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the rapporteur on the matter, 5 minutes to each of the other groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e317	The National Audit Office’s study of UDI’s proceedings in foreign affairs, state asylum recipients and the achievement of the goal of the integration grant is a thorough report in an area where several changes have been made in recent years to improve the impact of the resources we deploy. I would like to point out at the outset that several changes have been made even after the Riksaudition completed its report, and there is an overall committee which notes that the Riksaudition's observations themselves may have been positive in dealing with the areas where the Riksaudition has pointed out shortcomings and made concrete recommendations for follow-up. The period studied can be said to have been quite turbulent for the UDI, with strong criticism from several teams and many changes. At the same time, UDI has important administrative tasks, such as: long processing times often impose a heavy burden on individuals. It is with this in mind that the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party and SV are concerned that the length of the proceedings in the UDI is still long. In a letter from the Council of State Erna Solberg to the Committee, it appears that the eight-week treatment period in asylum cases in 2002 has not been reached, as a three-month treatment period is the result, and it appears that the procedure period for these cases has increased from 2001 to 2002. There are certainly more explanations for this, but the result is not good enough, and I believe that the Council of State also agrees. It is important to reach the time limit we have set. The National Audit Office expresses concern that repeated organisational changes and other actions in the UDI have so far not led to significant improvements, i.e. per. 1 April 2002. The majority of the Committee, all other than the Advancement Party, are aware that systems have now been put in place to speed up the procedure to be adapted to the individual applicant and require the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to follow up the National Audit Office’s reference to the importance of setting up an ETF with consistent performance reporting. Furthermore, the majority have noted that the treatment period for lone minor asylum seekers is more than five months from the date of application, and that the Government considers that the treatment period may increase in 2003 as a result of the introduction of age surveys and the detection of caregivers in the home country. An overall committee will point to the importance of age-setting measures, but at the same time it is talking about minors who need to have their application resolved as soon as possible, so that they can be accommodated as soon as possible. The majority believe that it is important that the time spent on asylum procedures is specifically sought for this group of asylum seekers. The majority of the Committee, the members of all parties outside the Advance Party, are also aware that the UDI has now established a new system for asylum seekers, where one has differentiated the procedure according to three categories. This appears to be a measure that can reduce the length of proceedings and increase the capacity of those who actually need protection. The majority would point out that shorter procedural periods should not be at the expense of legal certainty for each asylum seeker. The majority are also aware that the UDI has developed a new operating rules applicable from 1 January 2003 for the ordinary reception and reception with earmarked places for lone minor asylum seekers, including an assessment of the National Audit Board’s call for requirements relating to the staffing of the receptions. However, the majority are concerned about the supply of those who, for various reasons, remain long in receptions, which is, as we can see, the result if the processing time is too long. The majority are also aware that during the survey period, 1995–2001, the UDI was relatively far from achieving the objective of resettlement of refugees for all groups. A new housing scheme has been introduced per year. On 1 January 2002, but that scheme alone has not achieved the objective of resettlement of all refugees within six months of their residence and of resettlement of lone minors before three months. The majority note that the Government continues to consider measures that can contribute to the achievement of the objective and that this is given high priority. As the Council of State has pointed out in a letter to the Committee, housing is still a bottleneck, especially for lonely people. The majority of the Committee notes that the Government states that it will follow closely the work of ensuring faster settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e338	It is a thorough report on which this work has been carried out by the Committee. This report is, as the rapporteur said, drawn up in a very turbulent time for the UDI. UDI has extensive work to do. On the one hand, the procedure, the decision, shall be as expeditious as possible. On the other hand, we all want decisions to be based on relevant and correct information. This can sometimes be difficult and time consuming, slightly depending on the country from which the information is to be obtained. So we see that UDI is struggling to be as effective as we want, and at the same time safe, as safe in its proceedings as we require. So we have to be aware of this balance and live with it. The government's own goal of a treatment period of eight weeks in 2002 was far near met, and there is consensus here in the house, and also in the government, I have understood that we need to get more speed in this work, but that is all the time with this requirement for the quality of the work on the ground. It is also the case that asylum seekers in this country do not come in a quite steady stream. They come a little in peaks and valleys, so that sometimes the amount of work can lead to a longer processing time as a result of so many coming, while the other times are fewer applications, and you can get some of the things you are after. So it's this one with age determination. I very much agree with what the rapporteur said, this is important for us in the committee. Of course, the age setting has to be done correctly and properly, but that is one thing that should be given a very high priority. It is unfortunate for all people to stay for a long time in these state asylum recipients, however good they may be. It's not a good situation to stay there for a long time. It must be particularly difficult for young people and children to remain in these institutions for a long time. We are aware of the bottleneck that settlement in the municipalities represents, and we are pleased that the Government states that they will follow this development closely. We have also understood that it is relevant to consider other measures to get some speed in this work. So finally I will refer to a note on page 6 of the setting. I've been a little sloppy. See: ‘The members of the Committee of the Right and Christian People’s Party indicate that, during this period, more measures have also been taken in the Ministry to ensure better administration of the establishment.’ In this note, the Workers' Party is not included. We definitely have to be. We fully agree with that assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e358	The representative then pointed out a change in relation to the adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e361	A general relationship that can be seen with the National Audit Office's reports is that they're intermittent, but of course not always, containing some of the snow that fell last year. The present report is no exception. Although much of what is being discussed in the committee does not exactly make you feel the most overwhelming feeling that management is the fastest to make improvements, and that some relationships go back years after year, it actually happens that things are improved and often improved in the light of the National Audit Office's points. It's not as black as it's always wanted to be – the agenda of politicians and accountants doesn't always match. I guess we should be quite happy about that; it's an advantage that creativity primarily unfolds politically, while the audit is hacked more laterally. Then it is also gratifying that an overall committee acknowledges that there have been major changes in the UDI, especially since the report was produced and the Solberg Council took over the ministry offices. There is still room for improvement in procedural time, and it will take some time before all systems that can ensure efficient operation are in place. But there is still reason to be optimistic. Part of the turbulence we've seen in the UDI before, we don't see any more. When a unanimous committee points to the importance of age-setting measures, it is a very central point. The Workers' Party and the SV's comments state that minors must be informed of their application as soon as possible. In the light of what has been said here today, I shall read this comment with goodwill and in conjunction with the unanimous remark on age setting. I take it almost as a matter of course that the Workers' Party and SV also believe that it is important and correct that the department spends some time on claiming minors being revealed in order to create a preventative effect. In its comments, it appears that the Workers’ Party and the SV consider that the allegedly single minor asylum seekers mentioned in the report are also minors. But the recent project at Ullevål Hospital, where it appeared that almost 50 pst. Of the large number of persons checked out, not minors, it is clear that a slightly longer procedure time at this point can be a good investment to remove the impression that Norway has had an open house. Nor is it too hard to say that the lack of procedures for age determination under the former Brustad government regime explains a good part of the influx we have seen in recent years, just as we now see that the number of assumed groundless applications is reduced from 45 pst. to 9 pst. thanks to the adoption of the necessary measures by the State Council of Solberg and the Ministry. These suspected ‘groundless’ are placed in one of the so-called horror receivers in the East, where the horror and horror are that they are, for example, do not receive pocket money or receive Norwegian training. It's also easy to transport these. Once said, there is also cause for concern over some reports of individual reception conditions regarding the occurrence of crime and violence. Several receptionists have expressed great frustration over what is perceived in some places as an outright police force and poor cooperation with the police if they detect crime at receptions. Police have got a set of homes and tools they can and should use if they want, and they should generally be much more active and prosecute in several cases. If asylum seekers are to be expected to be integrated and received in a transparent way in Norwegian society, the police cannot see through the fingers of crime associated with the receptions. However, these conditions must not be exaggerated. Compared to the complex psychosocial problems it is for various and natural reasons among residents at a reception, there is actually surprisingly little violence and conflict there. Of course, one should not underestimate what is, and as far as I see, neither does the UDI with its new operating rules. When e.g. user involvement, the specific needs of women in a reception situation and, where appropriate, day-to-day staffing are assessed in a concrete way in relation to the need for each of the 136 receptions we have, including during the bidding round when they are put out to competition, this is precisely in recognition of the need to put the individual at the centre. A good example of such a concrete assessment is the reception at Klemetsrud, where cooperation with the municipality with a focus on the psychological aspects of staying at each reception is emphasised. Each individual reception must be assessed in a concrete way in relation to staffing, but it must also be said that we cannot have the objective of manning reception as a psychiatric institution. My own work experience from the health service has also taught me that, almost regardless of the crew, you cannot guard against incidents of violence and detachment. It even happens in furnished homes with basically good psychosocial relationships. In the case of comments from other parties, including the Advance Party, I refrain from commenting on them separately. The overall picture is that the UDI and the department with new costs in government offices are relatively well-informed about the circumstances pointed out by the Riksrevision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e380	The National Audit Office’s examination of the UDI procedure reveals that this is not working properly in many ways. In particular, the procedure period, as we have heard, includes: by the President-in-Office of the Council, is far too long. The report of the National Audit Office has therefore confirmed what has been the suspicion of the Progress Party for a long time in this respect. Surprisingly, neither can these conditions be for the other parties here in the Grand Duchy. The Progress Party has repeatedly warned against the Norwegian asylum, refugee and immigration policies, which, in our view, are far too clever. The party to the progress is of the opinion that one of the reasons for the failure of the procedure in asylum cases is that the influx of asylum seekers has been far greater than the size of the reception apparatus in Norway. In 1997, there were 2,271 asylum seekers in Norway, while the expected number for 2002 is about. Eighteen thousand. It goes without saying that such a formidable increase in the number of asylum seekers explodes the capacity of the Norwegian receiver. It cannot therefore be blamed solely on the UDI when it is found that the procedures for dealing with asylum matters are failing and that the length of the procedure is too long. Rather, there is reason to look back at the political leaders and the political decisions taken, among others. as regards asylum, refugee and immigration policy in general, the European Council. The Party therefore considers that the production targets set for UDI’s activities are not realistic if the amount of asylum cases is not drastically reduced and procedural simplifications are introduced. If the asylum, refugee and immigration policies of the Progress Party had been put in place, we would not have had these problems today. The Party of Advancement considers, inter alia, that: asylum seekers coming from countries where it is evident that they are not being persecuted for political reasons must be expelled at the border and immediately returned to their place of origin. Similarly, asylum seekers who come from other transit countries have to apply for asylum in the first country to which they come. If the policy of the Progress Party had been implemented in this area, there would have been a significantly smaller number of asylum cases to be dealt with, and there would have been no need for equal resources in the proceedings. We know that Norway is second place in Europe in terms of immigration, if measured by population. This can be seen in a study carried out in 2002. It goes without saying that these problems will only continue if the authorities do not change policy significantly in this area. Unfortunately, it appears that the other parties in the Stortinget do not take this inward and therefore do not want to help reduce the large flow of asylum seekers to Norway. As the Progress Party sees it, there is therefore no reason to believe that the problems encountered in receiving asylum seekers will be reduced. Nor is there any reason to believe that the procedure will be substantially reduced, unless asylum, refugee and immigration policies are made more restrictive, so that the total number of asylum seekers is reduced. In the case of further measures and proposals, the Progress Party will come back to this when, in a few days' time, the Stortinget will be presented with an evaluation of the organisation of the foreign administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e397	First of all, I would like to say that I agree with the solid review that the case spokesperson had. It may seem that this case is a good example of the fact that the management audit leads directly to improved proceedings, and that is probably the goal of that part of the Riksrevision’s work. During the period examined, the UDI was under criticism, among others. due to the excessive duration of proceedings, while increasing the number of cases each year. Due to its importance, several major changes were made to the organisation of the UDI. Several measures were also taken in the Ministry to ensure better administration. We must therefore accept that it will take some time for all these measures to be fully implemented and fully effective. It is worth noting that old remains have been largely demolished and that asylum matters in us now have a relatively short period of time in relation to other European countries. In the case of so-called ordinary cases, such as family cases, the length of proceedings has been reduced, or has not changed, while the number of cases has increased monthly. The measures that speed up the process are routinely adapted to the individual seeker. You can do this by doing a rough sorting in three categories. In this area, it is important that the Ministry has a good performance reporting system in place. At the same time, we must ensure that the requirements for efficiency do not exceed the legal certainty of the applicants. One who is being persecuted needs asylum. An area that has appeared difficult is the treatment of single minors, who have been mentioned earlier today. As a matter of fact, this is where the trial period has gone up. There are at least two reasons for this: one has introduced clinical age testing, and the UDI is trying to track down caregivers in the home country. We understand that such work takes time. There is reason to believe that the suspension of reception is particularly challenging for single minors, so that the prompt handling of these matters should be given special priority. But we also understand the challenges that lie in this. I think of those who seem to be minors, but they're not. It is important to prevent abuse. In summary, we are obliged to accept a certain processing time for these special cases. The target of construction is fixed within six months. In this context, it is also worth noting the struggle on the housing market that we generally have today. That fight is likely to have the effect of making the six - month rule difficult to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e410	The centre party is not represented in the Control and Constitutional Committee, so our view of the setting is not clear. I just want to make a couple of short comments from our side to connect to some points. First of all, when it comes to the proceedings, we would like to say quite frankly that both the Council of State and the UDI have a continuous search light to bring down the remains and to reduce the processing time, but we feel the need to send a little message of concern in relation to the quality. We argued that the quality of the proceedings should be as good as possible. We think there is a disturbing example of information that is not added to it. So the reception situation is very remarkable. It is good that new requirements will be notified from 1 January to both crew and content. We wonder that there are bodies that are running reception and that have been imposed new demands, but have not been able to renegotiate their contracts. We argued that this page is also being followed up. We would have liked to see the question of supply discussed by the Committee or the National Audit Office. It is a fact that neither Denmark nor Sweden operates according to the principle of supply, but has organisations responsible for reception. It is a crossroads of thought that there is an example in us of receiving the same budget in 2002 as they had in 1992. KS also maintains that it would be ideal for them to have the municipalities responsible for the operation. It is also true that this has been further updated when one has these supply periods, where there has not always been an equal contact between the UDI and the municipalities, and suddenly new receptions have been closed or created. A decision was taken in budgetary terms in relation to Norwegian training which we found particularly regrettable, and which we are now receiving alarming messages in relation to – that is, many of those who are still waiting a long time to get their case processed and who are staying in reception are no longer receiving Norwegian training. It's going to follow in terms of passivity. Of course, it also follows the ability to understand the society of which they are part, even though for some of them it is temporary. It is also given in relation to the preparation in Norwegian training for those who receive a yes to their application after a long waiting period. The third point I want to comment on is conjugation. We get messages about older refugees, which is a dilemma for many municipalities, where an additional social security scheme is not yet in place, and where some municipalities refuse to accept additional refugees. And we don't understand that housing should still be a bottleneck. We thought the Council of State and the Government could get bored and increase the House Bank's framework. Finally, about single minors: What is it that should speak against single minors becoming the concern of child protection, and that the receptions that receive single minors are given the status of child protection institutions? That would mean a better start for an important group.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e427	The attitude of the Control and Constitutional Committee shows some of the dilemmas and difficulties encountered in the work of immigration. It is clear that there are still many things that both need to be done better and done differently from today in order to improve the flow of justice within the UDI and in the treatment and the apparatus for reception and housing. The report is primarily about a period of another government, where there were major problems. UDI had particularly long processing times – not on asylum issues, because they were priorities, but on all other issues. So we've changed and made sure to split up the legal department so that we don't get cases that you had before, with 15 months of waiting, for example. family reunification matters. I think the setting also shows that we largely agree on the need to do something more in a number of areas. And the government is following up both the National Audit Office's remarks and the points of view that have come to mind. I just want to comment on a couple of things. We can be dangerously focused only on average processing time. Let me give you an example of differences in treatment time. Within the ‘estimated groundless’ group, we received some from Eastern Europe in 2001-2002 and some in particular. from Mongolia. The difference in time between those we were able to deal with the most quickly, namely those from Romania, on which the average 21 days were spent, and those from Mongolia, was over six months. What's the reason for that? Well, the main reason was that when more than 600 came from Mongolia, there was no interpreting capacity in Norway, and there is a right to be interpreted in their own language. It's a pretty difficult threshold when there's a whole new group coming up. Thus, the average for these groups becomes a rather long process, while the difference between them is quite large. Therefore, we can experience that even if we make everything right for quick processing for some groups, we suddenly get groups from countries that have not previously been represented, and where we have two issues: one is that our apparatus with interpreters and all the other that is going on is not clear. The second is that we have too little knowledge of the situation in the home country of these, and therefore the verification period in the asylum procedure will take a long time. We get groups of which we have many, the foreign administration knows well about the situation and can relatively easily determine whether it is a real application or not. But you get e.g. applicants from some African countries with little knowledge and few applicants may show that it takes a very long time. I don't think we have to forget that perspective as to why some things can take longer, and why it's not always so easy to control, because the results we get depends on where the inflow comes from. We can't at any time be able to have the full readiness to do that. In addition, I would like to stress that Norway, in the European context, is one of the countries with the shortest time to deal with asylum issues. It could be a dilemma in itself. Countries with short processing times on asylum cases for groups claiming refugee-like causes, i.e. from troubled areas where it is difficult to send people back, will be countries to which you choose to travel, as this will quickly clarify the situation. So when this group in Norway may take five–six months, while in other countries it may take two–three years before the case is finished, it will help us to get a higher number of asylum seekers – because we have rapid treatment. I emphasize it because there might be some dilemmas about it. So I'm concerned that we have a number of areas where we have to work better in the future. We need to have a better service level in the UDI, give better guidance to those who are applying for different reasons. We need to bring down the procedure time in a number of areas. We don't have to at least have a better reception concept. Because I agree with the Control and Constitutional Committee that we need to look at what's going on about mental and behavioural problems. The UDI has entered into an agreement on the operation of an enhanced reception, starting this month, just to have an offer to them with the absolute greatest mental and traumatic problems. However, reception cannot be treatment institutions. We cannot have a separate treatment institution device within the psychiatry of the foreign administration. So most of the problems have to be solved in collaboration with the usual offer. In addition to this, I believe that in the future it will be important to also work on the issue of bringing down asylum seekers' influxes in general and preventing us from getting as many as we get today. Obviously, the settlement is currently high, but it's not high enough. One of the reasons why we have to do more with the inflow is that it seems that we still get a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e444	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e448	The debate on asylum seekers’ inflows and processing time has now been over three to four years. Then we would like to point to the National Audit Office's report, but also to what the Council of State says in relation to the fact that we are in the process of success. In any case, I interpret the Council of State to the point that now UDI has reduced the processing time. But what are the basic reasons why we now have an average shorter time of proceedings? I react very strongly to the Council of States saying that we have shorter processing times than other European countries. It has a direct connection with Norway having a very liberal practice in relation to which applications we are to deal with, while other countries are more restrictive and treat more real applicants. Thus, other countries are treating those who may be able to obtain asylum, while in Norway we are dealing with all that has to do with obvious groundless, groundless and possibly groundless. It is clear that it will take less time to deal with a manifestly unfounded application even if the applicant is to be sent out. Could that be the reason why the Council of State is now trying to express that we are in the process of reducing the processing time? And is it that the Council of State will now follow up what was in the budget decision on this with 48 hours of work compared to applicants? So I would like to challenge the Council of States: when we talk about obviously groundless or groundless applicants and possibly groundless applicants, how does the Council of State define the three categories? Has the Council of State in any way signalled its view of it in relation to the UDI's processing apparatus?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e457	It's actually so that if we look at the averages last year for those who are obviously groundless, and the averages for what is being treated as more reasoned applications, then the processing time isn't on average so very different, it's maybe one month more. I have just mentioned the reason. We got a large group of Mongols who were treated as obviously groundless, but where there were procedural problems associated with it. That's why it's important to look at the inequality internally in these groups. For some groups we get a lot of inflow from areas close to us that we know well, we know in a way the reasons for moving, and we have the capacity, the apparatus for interpreting and everything in order. There we can get down to a very short procedure. We work with – and in their letter of assignment, UDI has been assigned to come forward with a plan to follow up the Storting decision on 48 hours of treatment – to reduce the time allocated to these matters well enough. In addition, it is important to take the logistics from the police to the UDI, because asylum seekers experience in a way that their application time has been much longer than what we do with the UDI procedure, because it may take a long time from the police to make the first interview, until the cases reach the UDI. Much has been done to reduce treatment time in recent years. When it comes to the question of a shorter processing period, I would like to underline what goes on again – and that is also in the setting – in my answers. It is primarily in non-acrystalline cases that we have suffered a dramatic decline in the course of proceedings. In the other cases, there may, in fact, also be restrictions on how far down we can get, simply because of the need to verify information, go back to our home country. It'll always depend on who's coming. As regards the definition of obvious groundless, open groundless is defined by region of origin, based on the human rights situation and assessment there. There is something Stortinget has previously agreed to, as the question of differentiation of treatment was presented during the Stoltenberg administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e466	In its speech, the Council of State pointed out a number of challenges by meeting treatment targets in the area in which we are dealing with a national audit report. She also expressed some ambivalence in relation to the desire to achieve the goal, as I understood the Council of State. My simple question to the Council of State is twofold: first, if the Council of State thinks it is realistic within the time she manages the department, to achieve the treatment targets that we have set ourselves, and if the Council of State wants to achieve these objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e473	I want a shorter procedure time at all levels. I do not want shorter procedural periods, particularly on reasoned applications, to compromise the legal certainty of the persons coming. Examining matters in the home country is part of the legal certainty issue, in order to ensure that no wrong is committed that is actually at risk of being prosecuted in the event of repatriation. When I point out that there might be a ‘downside’ about it, I think we should be honest, we need to be aware that if we have a very fast and good process in a turbulent world, we have a different strategy than what I think other countries have – just to spend a long time on it to work preventively. So we can say that's a value we're going to have in our society. I think it's nice that we have. But then we must not problem so much that we actually also become a country to which there are many asylum seekers. We see today that we from some nationalities are a chosen country to come to, because we give some stays for refugee-like reasons. At the same time, I would like to say that we have a reform that makes it more difficult to control the definitions of these issues, since we no longer have an instructional right and are no longer in the review process. So I think it is important that we do not complain about all things at once in relation to the area of asylum and refugees. We have to see that some of the solutions we have are creating dilemmas. My goal is to bring down time, but my goal is also to control UDI in a way so that we don't set unrealistic goals that we can never achieve. That is why there are not eight weeks of proceedings in the letter of award that they received this year, because there is an unrealistic procedure in relation to the content of the cases. And that's probably some of what we're going to learn from the report that the Riks revision has now produced, that maybe we've been running for five or six years with unrealistic goals. No organization takes unrealistic goals seriously if it goes over long periods of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e482	In the debate here, one might get the impression that it would be somewhat problematic to prioritize and speed up the work on determining the age of applicants when there might be cause to doubt the information they themselves provide, and on the other hand to do this work properly. Our assessment is that the task of determining the age of people who are in such a situation that they need to do so must be given priority. We heard in the debate here that of those who made such an assessment – in Ullevål Hospital, I understood – half were elderly; they were adults. And it's serious. But that also means that half is a child. Then we have to take inwards that half of these are actually children — children with an experience behind them, perhaps with a growth that we have difficulty understanding, and that is in a very desperate, difficult situation. To be able to prioritize this and get this in place as quickly as possible, we think it is necessary. I have to ask the council if she shares that view.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e489	In the first instance, age testing can contribute to a slightly longer period of time. In the longer term, I think that age testing is going to contribute to a shorter period of time, because you just have to focus on fewer single minors. It's not 50 pst. of all those who come as single minors, who are above the age limit but of all those selected for testing. And there's a pretty large proportion of the lonely minors who are not obviously under the age of 18, who are being tested. It's actually more than 50 pst. who are single minors. I think this is an essential area to give priority to the work. We must both reduce the length of the procedure and not least reduce the length of the period of residence. In addition, we need to make better arrangements for the children, so that more adults get closer with them throughout this phase. This is why the government is working with a new both reception and housing policy, where we are going to link reception and housing closer together, and which is going to make more adults perhaps follow them more closely throughout the course of the settlement process, and they do not feel that they are being moved from one part of the country to another and need to get a new contact device. It requires close cooperation with the municipalities in order to implement it, it requires municipalities that commit themselves in advance to receiving lone minors, and it requires cooperation with the municipalities on the reception structure, with a completely different type of reception from what we have. These are among the things we are now discussing how we can do. However, with an application rate of almost 1000 — as it may seem from the figures — single minors would be very difficult to obtain. Now, when we get to the age test, and we get a divorce from those who aren't really lonely minors, it's easier to get better reception arrangements. We're going to give priority to trying to get this done for the youngest of the children, who need closer follow-up, in a short time. I would like to remind you that, in the asylum process itself, we treat lone minor asylum seekers more easily than we treat the others, because then we take into account that they are children. More people get humanitarian residence because we don't find their families. This makes it very attractive to try to become ‘uniformly minor’ in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e500	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e505	I would like to grasp what the Council of State has ended with. I believe that we should focus more on the humanitarian around young lone asylum seekers by finding their biological parents, rather than focusing as much as possible on providing them with housing in Norway. The most humane thing here must be that these young people are reunited with their parents, preferably in their home country. And there I understand that there's a job going on. But what I'm a little concerned about is how we treat the individual asylum seekers. There are very few people who have a real basis for asylum, who are allowed to stay in Norway. I feel a little problematic, because we're talking about repair work all the time instead of preventing the developments that we've seen especially since 1997, where we've had an explosion in relation to asylum influx to Norway. In this regard, I feel that at least the Progress Party is very much opposed to all arguments against us moving towards international law and the Convention on Human Rights, as well as the UN Convention on Refugees. I would like to have the views of the Council of State on this. For it is true that the 1988 Act on Foreign Affairs determines whether the person concerned is entitled to protection in Norway. Three main forms of protection are used in Norway: either asylum, humanitarian residence or collective protection. We know that the Norwegian Law Commentary, the top expertise in analysing laws, says that international law and the Convention on Human Rights are subject to Norwegian law. I cannot interpret it differently than that we can regulate who can stay in Norway through the Norwegian Foreign Affairs Act. But we're still going to meet with the argument that we can't do that, because then we're going to break the Human Rights Convention. The Progress Party has now made a number of proposals, in line with what the Danish authorities have done. I would also like the Council of State to comment on Norway in the direction that Denmark has taken. They have, in a way, come to understand it in the rest of the EU too, because the EU is now more likely to have a common asylum policy in line with what Denmark has put in place. Is it problematic for the Government and Norway to make the same decisions, simply to reduce the influx of asylum – and then, in the next round, to put resources in the job of integration, as we are about to do now, through a proposition in the Storting? I want to focus more on the prevention of further asylum inflows in relation to what we have now. I record that, for many, many rounds now, the Council of State says that they have introduced measures that would create a reduction, but we see that the increase is still present. So I would also challenge the Council of State on: What measures have now been taken to reduce the asylum flow to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e518	What we can all be a few about in these matters that are being discussed now is that we are dealing with very vulnerable people. There are two issues to consider. One is the length of the procedure and the way in which one manages it, and the other is the content of the reception. When we're dealing with people who are refugees, who are persecuted in war zones or come from other areas where they have problems, they need a different reception system than what government receptions give them today. The majority of the Committee also expresses concern in its attitude regarding the content of the reception system. There is a great need to further develop the content of asylum recipients and to stimulate greater user involvement and involvement. This is exactly what the Council of State is calling for. I know, among other things. to the reception that has seen organized activity for children and young people, both those who are there directly as asylum seekers, away from their parents, and those who are there with their families. Here they can be activated in organisational life and connected to networks in which they can also participate after the suspension of the asylum reception in the municipalities to which they come. I think there's a lot to do by betting on children and young people, and giving them a good start. It is clear that one can prevent many problems of intervention at first and let these families and children get to know our country based on their leaders, and integrate them into teams with other children and young people. This is about increasing access to resources, and I think it's also about a change of posture in the UDI and in the individual receivers. The challenge for the Council of State is to launch incentives to make receptions easier, to prevent the development of mental disorders, and to facilitate integration into our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e529	Let me start by answering the question about what we've done. We have had targeted work against manifestly groundless asylum applications, and we have received results from it. Last January was 44 pst. Of those who came, from countries that were ‘clearly groundless’, while now there are 9 pst. That comes from that kind of country. There has been a targeted work on information measures. There has been work to change the supply offered in Norway and to speed up the process associated with the main rural areas. We see that this has led to results. We don't take credit for all of this, because we think there are other things that also happen that make these numbers go down. There must probably be continuous action, not least on the information page, when we see that there are such flows of people from countries that obviously do not provide grounds for seeking asylum. As far as other land areas are concerned, it is clear that we are getting a big influx. It's not just Norway that gets. Sweden also has strong inflows from rural areas where it is based, i.e. there are applications that are not defined as clearly groundless. The largest land area at present is former Yugoslavia, the different areas that are there, which are now separate countries. We have groups from Bosnia, Kosovo and Serbia today. Some of these are from minority groups who continue to experience local harassment, and as per Today, it is difficult to return. But there's an ongoing discussion about when to start returning these groups instead of giving them a stay – when is the situation most stable there? Other areas we get a lot from are Iraq at the moment. In recent weeks, the number of people from Iraq has been very large. I think everyone who joins the media understands why Iraq's current influx is huge. Also from Somalia we have a great influx, while from the countries we have been conscious of because they are obviously groundless, now we see results, so that we have in a way taken those I would say did not need for the asylum institution. So it's not like there are only three criteria that provide the basis for staying in Norway. Within humanitarian bases, there are three different categories, two of them in so-called refugee-like situations. This applies to most residents in Norway. There are people who do not have an individual basis for persecution, but who come from an area where the unrest is so great that it is difficult to return them, or they are allowed to stay because they may experience being in the same situation as a refugee. They're in the same situation that many of the quota refugees we have are in. They can't be in the country they come from, but as individuals they might not be persecuted. That is why we must nuance these relationships. So the question of how many we're going to input. The percentage of admissions at the moment is less than the percentage we had before. It may increase somewhat now because we have a flow from countries that have more refugee problems associated with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e544	The Chief Speaker of the Advancement Party, Henrik Rød, did not find it too well to comment on the measures that have worked in the government's policy, for example. a reduction from 45 to 9 pst. in the number of unemployed persons due to new procedures and that the age-setting measures have worked. But it's no surprise, because you don't have anything to profit from any improvement, and the improvements that happen may be blaming you on the Great Britain pulpit or anywhere else, for example. on the ‘Birdberget’ in Holmgang. This debate shows – now I am going to be a little bad and say – that the Progress Party has a kind of credibility on refugee and asylum issues that one must of course seek to maintain. Other batches should preferably be painted with most colors with how little you have listened to the Progress Party almost no matter what happens or has been done. But it’s politics – ‘the show must go on’! I'm going to say it now. There's probably more of it coming in the next case. It should be an anniversary here in a short time – a 25th anniversary should be celebrated. There must be a big anniversary package, a real Kinder Egg – two immigration things in the hall and party afterwards, three things at a time. Congratulations, by the way, representative Hagen! I find reason to say a few things here. I don't see Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party as dangerous in itself. I don't necessarily see that the sergeants Sandberg or Red, who are strategically sent out when the gallups start to fall a little, are dangerous in themselves. Actually, I'm quite tired of talking about the policy of the Progress Party, because for years all other parties have been useful idiots for the Advance Party and spent too much time accusing the party, which is for the most people. What's my concern – it hasn't been up here in the Chamber yet, I guess it might come in the next case – is that I feel that the Progress Party is contributing to the start of an important debate – not primarily now, but a start. It is not meant to be a lying attack or ambush on the policies of the Progress Party, which some people would like to describe as, but there are some signs in society now that I feel that the Progress Party is moving in, and that others can use for another people's most-policy, of which we cannot yet see the scope. Most people have a lot of sense, but most people have also historically been behind a lot that doesn't benefit the minority, to say it carefully. I was very much in doubt if I should say anything in that direction today, if I could do it, but to the extent that we are unable to discuss some fundamental human rights issues when discussing immigration policy, I think we have lost as a democratically elected body.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e556	The President is somewhat uncertain as to whether it is appropriate to characterise his co-representatives as agents. In any case, it should at least be parked in a defence debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e559	I have a broad background in the defense, but I never came any further than to become a corporal. In this way, at least I have made progress. Nor do I allow myself to be provoked by such old views, thoughts and prejudices as the representative Dahl here comes from the pulpit. What has always been the fundamental problem of Norwegian asylum, immigration and refugee policy is that we have not taken the debate, that we have not been able to take the debate, and in a way have taken preventive action to reduce what we see today is the result: that 16 000 people must live in institutions under different conditions, and that Norwegian municipalities must receive 8 000 to 9 000 refugees every year without having the capacity, resources and competence to do so, with the result that they can get. The reason why I took the floor is what the council says, and what Dahl says. Dahl must stand up and defend the Government. Of course, the Council of State is obliged to do so, and to refer to the measures that have worked, as it was said. But now we were presented with the 2002 figures from the UDI a week ago, and those figures do not show any results of these measures. If we want to promote measures to reduce the influx of asylum seekers, which, again, in the next round, should strengthen the integration process, we have failed altogether since 1997, when Bondevik I took over. Then we have to go into those numbers. We know that the Council of State and the Government have said in the past that some years have been exceptional, for example in 2001, because we have increased the influx of asylum seekers. Thus, when the government went out at that time and said that we have taken measures to reduce this influx, and when the 2002 figures show that there is still an increase in inflow, the measures have not worked. And that is what the Progress Party will do in the debate. Therefore, it may be time to see whether we can use a little other means to reduce the total influx of asylum seekers to Norway, so that we can use resources and create skills next round to integrate the people who have already been accommodated in Norway, because I believe that we are doing those people a huge bear service by allowing us to allow a continued large influx of asylum seekers to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e566	One of the tactics of the Progress Party in such debates is to make other claims about what they have actually said. We had a debate a little over a year ago that we got too many people to this country that took advantage of the asylum facility and didn't need protection. We said that we had to do something about it, and we have taken action to do something about it. We have not put in place measures to stop the whole influx of asylum seekers, for such an ambition we know very well that we cannot have. I do not control – I would like to wish I did – the situation in Somalia, the situation in Iraq, or can ensure that people behave neatly against each other at the village level and in ethnically mixed areas in Yugoslavia. But if people need protection, we have an asylum institute. We also have a humanitarian protection measure that makes it possible to stay. That's why we've said something about, not that we should stop the whole influx of refugees, or that we should get that part of the influx that is real people with a need for protection, but that we should do something with the obvious groundless, because it helped to make our asylum institution simply abused. I think we see results of that. Something I think is the result of our doing something active about it, which may also be because in some of these countries conditions have normalized a little more. The fact that freedom of access to the Schengen area has become a practice in Romania and Bulgaria has made it possible not to move. The fact that Norway was not so busy, and that it was not so easy to stay there, is perhaps a rumor that has gradually come back. To be honest, we don't think the Progress Party should try to argue that what we said we were going to do is what they want to do about, that is, get fewer refugees to this country. What we said we were going to do was take advantage of the asylum institute, and there we have quite clear numbers that show that we are currently on the right track. But I always take that reservation that I don't know what reputation suddenly goes into an area, around Leningrad or elsewhere, and suddenly we get a streaming again. We will launch actions related to this. Then we are also in a situation where taking active action to do something more about the influx of asylum is one of the things we are now trying to figure out, but I'm not sure if we want to go this far in Norway. Among other things, we must: look at what makes us more attractive than very many other countries, for example. for the group of Somalis. Very many other places they have a large group of people without a clear situation, they get so-called tolerated stay, they don't get asylum, they can't be returned, and we get a larger and larger group of people living in Europe without having decided they're allowed to be there. I'm not sure if this is a wish situation for us to have more and more of in our country. It may seem preventative, but perhaps the pain is too great by having such measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e580	‘Truly,’ says the Council of State. I'd like to strike back: honestly, councillor! Putting up a debate from the pulpit and discussing the agenda of the Progress Party is probably the result of what the Council of State said on a newscast last week, that signed the bill with the fear of alienation. I thought maybe we were done with that kind of debate. It is probably the only argument left by the Government and the Council of State to explain itself away from the fact that the influx of asylum seekers to Norway is still explosive. And when I point to what the Government and the Council of State said in relation to 2001, it was family reunion that was the big thing in the debate at the time. The size had to grant several hundred million extra because the family reunion had exploded in 2001. Then the Council of State and the Government said that there was an exceptional year, because there were many leftovers on family reunification. However, 2002 continues to show a strong increase also for family reunification. Then the Government and the Council of State have not achieved their objectives. And still it's like 80 pst. of asylum seekers, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e589	What is the Policy of the Progress Party? Per Sandberg stated two articles ago that the Government had wanted to limit the influx of asylum seekers. Now he's talking about family politics and family reunion issues. So these are not asylum seekers. In the field of asylum seekers, the Progress Party may have a different policy from the rest of us, by limiting the number that comes here, while others of us have been concerned with limiting the number that has no reason to apply and use the asylum institution. Here I have experienced a broad support in Stortinget from all other parties to the group for which we should get results. As far as family reunification is concerned, I would like to say that the remainder project that was completed on 1 July 2002 was linked to the old provisions of family reunification. What was likely abnormal was that the figures in 2000 were lower than they would be in the year in which the UDI proceedings had been satisfactory. When it comes to family reunification in the future, I think we just have to realize that we're going to have more family reunification. If you go behind many of these numbers and investigate who it is that is now marrying who, and in what context, it's not that it's just the immigration population that generates family reunification. There are also many Nordics who generate family reunification. Young people study and live abroad. We've had a wave in the last 15 years that has meant that we're going to internationalize our society. Several of these kids get girlfriends elsewhere in the world, and they come here. More and more Norwegian men marry foreigners. We can read from the statistics which countries top it in terms of marriages with Norwegian citizens, and we also know something about ethnic backgrounds. It's Russia, the Philippines and Thailand. This picture is a picture that I have never problemated or had as a goal to reduce, because I think we're actually going to live with more and more marriages to people from other countries, and that in the future we're going to have more and more family reunions, among other things. because we have a growing family in this country that has a foreign background, and many of them are going to marry people from their homeland. But then the question is, is there a problem? Is that the family reunion that's a problem? I don't believe we're going to make it a bigger problem, and say that's what we have to try to make changes today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e600	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1850]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e616	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the rapporteur, 5 minutes to each of the other groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e625	We are examining here the position of the Control and Constitutional Committee in an open case on the practice of foreign administration and other authorities in issuing travel certificates. As it is possible to read, if you go into the technical summary and to the extent also in the comments, this is a case that started as the so-called mulla Krekar case, a case where claims in the media made it felt necessary to go in and see if the procedure had been satisfactory. However, from entering into and exercising a control function and seeing whether the procedural procedures seem to be satisfactory or not, to going into and dealing with the individual case, is a long step to take. As the Ministry has pointed out, the assessment of whether an asylum status is to be withdrawn because the foreigner has travelled to the home Member State must be based on a concrete assessment. In its opinion on this matter, the Committee has not asked to see precisely the documents on which the management has taken its decisions. As I see it, it is my opinion that the Committee has not dealt with the specific procedure with results in each case, but more specifically with the problem: are the procedures in this area satisfactory? But the matter raises some fundamental questions. I don't now have an answer to where our challenges lie. Are the challenges facing resources for control? There is one thing we have to see in our eyes, that it is not necessarily very easy for the Norwegian authorities to control who has been inside Northern Iraq or not. It is not even certain that they have a fine stamp in their passport when they come back. Are the regulatory challenges involved? I don't have an answer to this right now. It is clear to the majority of the Committee that a practice whereby asylum seekers – not asylum seekers, but asylum seekers, I would like to clarify it – can travel freely on holiday to the country in which they are seeking protection from being in, could weaken the confidence of the asylum institution as such and be contrary to general legal perception. But the world can be more complicated than VG. I won't dare to make it firm, but then may be the case. For example, Trygve Nordby, director of the UDI, has given some examples in the public debate that there may be valid grounds for an asylum seeker to return to the country he has been protected from, for example. that you want to see if it has become so safe that you want to return, or if there is a disease in the family. There may be a number of different stories. I don't think it's desirable to create a code that makes it impossible for asylum seekers who want to check what development in their home country has been, to go back to make an opinion about it. In practice, it will be a code that encourages people not to return to the country from which they have fled when conditions have become safer. Governments have signalled a review of the legislation in this area. There is a majority in the Committee which welcomes, and we have tabled proposals for decisions: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the Storting to highlight the problem of travelling back to the country from which you have fled.’ The Progress Party has made a proposal here today to go into the specific decision on Mulla Krekar's residence permit. I wish it was possible not to deal with that matter. I believe this is a level of detail that is not suitable for the Storting to go into, especially not without having seen the same papers that the administration has made on the basis of which it has made its decision. But even though we had seen these papers, I don't think that the Stortinge would have maintained the equality of law and legal certainty in a good way by going into one single matter and making a decision on this matter. However, it has been pointed out that the Government has the possibility of instruction in a case of this kind, if the matter is about foreign policy and the security of the state. It may not be desirable for Stortinget to decide on this issue either, so my appeal to Stortinget is that the proposal be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e654	As the rapporteur said, there was the attention on a particular matter that led the Committee of Inquiry into these issues. For our part, I have to make it clear that it was the principal aspects of what was revealed in this case, which the Control Committee went into, not this one specific matter. As a result, we do not believe that it is reasonable to vote in favour of the proposal that the Progress Party is promoting here today. The problem is, as the rapporteur made it, that when you come to Norway and seek asylum because you are persecuted or insecure in your home country, you come to Norway for protection here. If things are like that, you get asylum. The problem arises when you leave Norway and return to the country from which you have applied for asylum. Then a situation arises that for us is a little difficult to see the full range of tension. Is it, then, that we can automatically say that asylum ceases, or is it such that there are special cases where asylum should nevertheless be maintained? I can see that there are two issues in this case. One is the provisions. When you go back to the country from which you have applied for asylum, is it that, at least, a very strong assessment should be made of whether asylum should then be abolished? You no longer need protection, because you've gone back to the country you were looking for protection from. The other side is, do we have a system that captures this problem? When you go back from Norway to your home country and come back to Norway, do we have systems – registers and systems – that come into operation and that make you really think about this? At my best it must be that, exceptionally, when you have returned voluntarily and resided in the country from which you have applied for asylum, you maintain an asylum. It is very difficult, I think, to maintain the asylum system for a person implementing such a stay. To refer again to the statements made by the rapporteur: this way of working would undermine the institution of asylum. If you can go back, for example on holiday, to the home country from which you have applied for asylum, it will make people in Norway less confident about asylum as a system. Finally, the Labour Party has promoted a minority proposal. After a detailed assessment, I would ask that this be sent to the Government without a trial of reality. After such an examination of the case, we from the Workers' Party will support the majority's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e665	The Kjell Engretsen has re-examined this proposal for a transmission proposal and it will be dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e668	First, let me acknowledge the statement made by the representative, Mr. Engebertsen, that the Workers' Party is asking for their minority proposals to be sent without a vote for reality. I'm glad, because as it appears, it might seem that there was a greater disagreement between the majority of the committee and the Labour Party than it actually is. We share the concern expressed by the Ombudsman in his intervention in a very good way, that what has arisen in recent times in relation to repatriation can lead the institution of asylum to discredit. Here, however, we are confident that the Government and the Solberg Council will do what she has announced and, as we are asking here, that a case be brought before the Stortinget where the various problems and challenges associated with this discussion and their solutions are properly presented to the Stortinget, so that the Stortinget and the appropriate Scientific Committee in the Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss this in a thorough and proper manner. We must be careful, in relation to the functioning of the Control and Constitutional Committee, so that this committee, which is primarily responsible for ex-post control, does not interfere with the policy design in the area of other major-denomination committees. Therefore, I am pleased that this is now about to receive the treatment it should have. Otherwise, I would like to say that the matter as such, as it now appears, could well in and separately pass. In principle, however, I would say that I believe the debate we are now going to have is a very good illustration that this matter should never have been raised by the majority of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. Unfortunately, I do not think it will be possible to deal with this matter on a general basis, as both the case rapporteur and the representative of the Ombudsman would like to see. I think we're going to see pretty quickly that this is being savored together in a big laphouse, where there's not going to be much in general in the debate, but especially in relation to a single case. I would also like to refer to the proposal put forward by Mr Hagen, who initially, I think, the President-in-Office should reject it in relation to taking it up to voting, because it is in every way a violation of constitutional rules. If one were to vote against this – of course, the representative Hagen wants everyone to vote against this proposal – the representative Hagen can point his nose at all of us and say: The government has accepted that mulla Krekar should become, while we were the only ones who wanted to oblige the government to send him home. It basically illustrates what an inadequate majority of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has brought us up in that this is a very special matter in which the roles of the various powers of the state are mixed together in a single large laphouse. In fact, this country is to be governed by law, and if there is a lack of law, the Stortinget will make sure that the law is in line with what the majority of the Biggest wants. We can't ignore it. We trust that government and administration will deal with this matter properly, and otherwise come back to Stortinget with a real case, where the Stortinget can make clear how the law should be in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e675	Let me first correct the misunderstanding of the representative Engeset. I have no wish for the proposal that I make to this effect, President, to be put to the vote. On the contrary, I have a strong wish that it should have been unanimously adopted. So in the case of the representative Engese's playoff at the end, it's going to be the exact opposite of what he's saying. Of course, this case has two parts, the general part of the practice of our legislation, and how to deal with people – not asylum seekers, as some have mentioned, the person concerned, who was the starting point, is a quota refugee and has not applied for asylum – who have been granted residence in Norway and who are visiting their country of origin. There I am very pleased with the principle views expressed by Kjell Engebretsen, that it was impossible to get an understanding of the Norwegian people that a kind of stay and protection in Norway is guaranteed if you travel on vacation to your home country or on other trips to your home country. That is why Kjell Engretsen's conclusion should also be to vote in favour of my proposal. The general case is as he says. So I've also taken up this with mulla crickets in particular. He has admitted in interviews and his lawyer has admitted that he has been in his home country. That's clear. There is no need for a procedure on this, since he has openly admitted it. I have even seen TV clips from his activities. You can't pretend that the Mulla Krekar case is about an ordinary refugee who has been accommodated and who has been in the home country. He is currently one of the most controversial people. He has built up a radical organization and an army of 500-700 men in his homeland. His group, Ansar Al-Islam, controls a geographical part of Iraq – in the same way, quite identically, as the Taliban did in Afghanistan before an international force seized them. The similarities between the steering sets are relatively clear. There's a lot of articles about this in the international press, the last time of February 10 in Time Magazine. pretending that this is not a very special matter that should be possible for us in Stortinget to do something about, I will reject. It was said that you have confidence that the government will handle this. How are you supposed to feel? The government has already stated from September to October that they have this in mind. How long should they assess and when should they reach a conclusion? What is remarkable is that the Government has not concluded too far that the conditions of residence have been broken by a completely normal visit to the home country, which has been admitted – not only on holiday visits, but in addition, it operates in its home country. When there is an organisation that is also mentioned in Minister of Foreign Affairs Powell's speech to the Security Council, and there are very many international people who have the same views on both Ansar al-Islam and Mulla Krekar, you don't understand that you take the risk of him being in Oslo and walking around freely. A committee from my party has recently been in New York and Washington, and we got a lot of questions. And that was actually embarrassing questions. The fact that there is no doubt that you can use the definition that there may be a danger to the security of the state, which gives the Council of State an opportunity to act independently of other provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act, is quite obvious. So here Norway is about to make itself a laughing international. We can only hope that the Government has taken the completely necessary steps to prevent possible actions. In terms of terrorist actions in general, I hope that we have a better preparedness. I take it as a matter of course that you take care of those people that there is reason to believe can be able to do something. This case is special. It is obvious that the provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act have been broken, and that is why we have tabled this proposal. It should be made clear that Mulla Krekar should not have a residence in Norway once he has broken the legislation, and also when it is clear internationally that he can be a threat to the security of the state. I would like to ask the Council of State to explain when the Government intends to finalise this case, which has now been under assessment and assessed for three-four months. When can we expect the end of the assessment and the conclusion?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e692	The representative has drawn up the proposal he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e695	As others have done well for today, for example: The author and the representative of the Engretsen was one single matter that formed the background to the topic we are now discussing. That, with the renewal of the travel certificate while the police had been searching for this person, triggered this case. The Committee has had a correspondence with the Ministry of Local Affairs on this case and, on the basis of this – I must say – has confidence that the administration and the judiciary will be able to deal with this specific matter in a satisfactory manner. At the same time, we see that this individual case looks at a problem that we should go into more. We have to ask the question, how are we going to look at people who have sought protection in Norway from persecution in their homeland, but who are going back to the country they escaped from? One thing is certain, this kind of thing needs an individual treatment. The political situation in the home country may have changed, so that a journey home does not have to mean danger. If this is the case, Norwegian citizenship – in other words, it has been offered for a long time in Norway – there is no reason for a visit to the home country to change the residence status. At the other end of the scale we find the case where asylum seekers travel to their home country on so-called vacations or to visit family. In such cases, however, there is no reason to believe that there is a need for protection against prosecution. The signals the Minister of State has given that the Government will see closer to this problem, I am delighted to say, and also that the majority of the committee is behind a proposal to ask the Government to come back with a case on this problem complex, in the hope of a clearer relationship around this. The Asylum Institute is an important system for people who are persecuted in their homeland. This is a system that must be protected against abuse, and it must be guaranteed to have high legitimacy in our people. If asylum seekers return to the country from which they say they have been forced to flee, or if it appears that the control of the system is not good enough, I am afraid that the institution of asylum is going against the justice of ordinary peoples, and the whole system can be undermined. A thorough review of the scheme and the practice of it, as signaled by the Council of State, including the following: the powers of the police in such cases will therefore be in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e710	The Central Party is pleased that the Control and Constitutional Committee found it possible to address claims in the media in a specific foreign case, Mulla Krekar-saka. There is every reason to take a closer look at the practices that are covered when some of their asylum seekers are entering and leaving their home country. Mulla Krekar's travels are open-minded to help weaken the understanding of the asylum institution itself. The example also helps to weaken the impression of protection conveyed in an asylum application. We believe that there is a need for a more thorough clarification of the problem associated with travel to the country from which you have moved. We've seen that in recent times there have been other examples. We've seen that it has come to momentum like e.g. the situation in the home country has changed over time. We're looking forward to such a review, and we're going to vote for the majority's proposal. To the Progress Party's proposal No. 2 is our belief that this applies to a matter related to the foreign law, quite clearly, but which also has a security and foreign policy aspect that implies that the Government is handling this matter and all the pages that it is tangent to, thoroughly. We have recorded that both the Council of State – the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs – and others in the Government need time for that review. We will give them the time they think they should have, and we will today vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e718	Let me start by saying that I'm as concerned and concerned about this issue as the Control and Constitutional Committee is. It is very difficult to defend our institution of asylum if we can have a practice where it turns out that because we are unable to return people, or because we perceive that you are in a refugee-like situation somewhere in the world, you undermine your own case by going back again. In people's eyes, it's going to be a hopeless situation, and we just can't have it like that. That is why we have previously announced that we will both tighten up and review the matter. And, to remember that, not only will we review the case complex, it is clear that we also need to tighten in. But it's important to see that there are several elements in this kind of case. Firstly, it is a time perspective. How long after you have been given refugee status does it mean that you shouldn't be able to go home? Your passport is stamped with the fact that you cannot travel to your home country, but how long will it be? The normal rule under the Foreign Affairs Act is that after three years you have a permanent residence permit. This means that there may be people who have lost their refugee status, i.e. people who have lost their refugee status in Norway because of this type of return trip, but who have not been expelled because they have been granted rights under other types of permits because of their connection to Norway. So they no longer have refugee status, but they have other types of rights, for example. the right to family reunification, which thus exists for persons married to Norwegian citizens. If we just take away their right to asylum and do not have a basis for simultaneously expelling them under the Foreign Affairs Act: that means that one thing is to withdraw the asylum permit, another thing is to make sure that people return and say that they will no longer have to stay in Norway. The other important question about this matter is that there are a lot of stories about that being the case. There are a lot of unconfirmed messages, and there's a great probability that many of those messages are correct. The Foreign Service has, among other things: believed that the information they have received on border crossings to Northern Iraq shows that people from Northern Iraq have travelled home for a long time so much that there is no basis for saying that people from Northern Iraq have had a need for protection. But going from that information to having concrete information about that N.N. has travelled home, is a long stretch. Among other things, because several of the countries that have been talked about a lot are countries that do not have official border crossings with passport stamping. So you won't be able to track that they've actually been there. In letters to the Committee, we have, among other things: reference to the fact that, in the case on which this was brought up, the non-resident management assessed the withdrawal of the authorisation at an earlier date, but did not find any concrete evidence at that time. The third part that we should consider in the future is the question: if that is the case, do we have to expand the area so that you can't go back? It is obvious that people from Northern Iraq often use, for example: Syria and Syria-Turkey as the gateway to travel. A difficult choice is whether we have to expand the area and ask questions about it. How we're going to be able to reveal the actual information and know who it is that has been moving, not just knowing that a large number of seemingly moving things are among the things we're going through. My intention is to tighten this up, and come back to Stortinget, so that you can evaluate the different parts before you can make a final decision on how far you have to go. It's also possible to get so far that you should extend the law on some of these points. So to the special case. I am pleased that the Control and Constitutional Committee has not seen that they are the ones to make administrative decisions. I think it's right that you have a role sharing in that area. But I want to underline two things related to the proposal that is on the table by the representative Carl I. Hagen. The point is that Carl I. Hagen very often presents himself as the one interested in constitutional issues, and then there is one important constitutional question that needs to be addressed in this matter. The fact that you have been visiting your home country is not a basis for having instructions from the Council of State under the new law. Being at home on a visit does not give rise to any risk to the security of the state or to foreign policy. This means that if a decision is taken with the wording that is on this table today, the Stortinget will take a decision that we cannot implement, because the Stortinget has passed a law that makes it impossible for the Council of State to instruct on this basis. For the Council of State, of course, it will be a big problem. It should be a problem for those who are concerned by the institution, for a verbal proposal or a roll-call decision, not to review the law passed earlier on how to deal with this. I would also like to stress that, unfortunately, I am also afraid that this may weaken the case, which is likely to come to court over time, if it is perceived that it is later instructed, and that it is perceived as a politically motivated instruction, and not a factually motivated instruction.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e737	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e740	First, until the last state council said that it is the instruction to expel Mulla Krekar or withdraw his residence permit that is the operational part of the proposal. The premise lies in what I said from the pulpit. I actually mentioned the national security twice. The Council of State has confirmed that both the State’s security and foreign policy causes can be taken into account. Both parts indicate that Mulla Krekar’s residence permit in Norway is suspended. I would like to ask: What is the reason why the Government or the Council of State has not used the opportunity she herself has to ensure that Mulla Krekar has lost his residence permit for the longest time? That's my first question to the Council of State. Then I would like to ask: Has the government received some enquiries, requests, advice, views on this from other countries' authorities, for example. The Netherlands, America or other countries that have an interest in Mulla Krekar? Or was this considered completely isolated in the Norwegian government? That's the second question. But my main question is: when the government itself had strong opinions on this in September/October, why isn't this matter resolved in the Government? Why is it lying there floating?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e751	As the proposal is designed, it does not show that there is a premise on the security of the state or on foreign policy issues, and I then perceive that it is a journey back to the home country that is the basis for instruction. So it's problematic to deal with it legally. With regard to the question of national security and foreign policy issues, I do feel that the Stortinge case should have been somewhat different from the fact that a proposal was made on the table. This matter is actually complicated, among other things. because there are very many different parts of the law to be assessed against each other, but also because the information and the source of the information in the case must be checked. Following instructions from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs on 12 September, the UDI Mulla Krekar for the withdrawal of asylum status, the withdrawal of travel certificates, the withdrawal of residence permits, the expulsion on the basis of violations of the Foreign Affairs Act, the expulsion on the grounds of national security and the registration of Schengen information systems. After that, both on 25 September and 7 October, in line with the administrative law required, additional answers and additional information were received from the foreign lawyer, i.e. Mulla Krekar's lawyer. Since then, we have gone through all the additional information, the additional answers and other information that has come, to ensure that the credibility and sources of these hold. This is actually complicated and difficult, among other things. because sources have to be evaluated. It's much easier to have a two-sided look in a newspaper and say with substance that this is the situation. If we get in the situation that we maintain the advance warning as a final decision, this will most likely be tested in Norwegian law. So we're going to have a review and a test of it. It makes this case take time. I can't say when we're done. I hope we finish quickly, but we can't say we're done until we know we're done! Then we know that we've checked the information.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e764	I would like to repeat the questions that I did not receive an answer to. Have the Norwegian authorities and the Government received advice, enquiries or requests from any Dutch, Jordanian or American authorities regarding Mulla Krekar’s residence permit in Norway? So I would like to ask whether the Council of State has considered using its right of instruction in terms of the security of the state and foreign policy issues. I did not get an answer to that either. As I perceived her first post, she confirmed that she had that opportunity. It would have been interesting to know the following: Why has the Council not already used that access, when there is such an opportunity? Is it the case that the Government does not consider Molly Cretaceous to be a danger to the security of the State, that there are no foreign policy circumstances that would suggest that he should not be allowed to be here in Norway when he is one of the most mentioned persons in time? In fact, Norway’s reputation and respect for Norway have declined as a result. Has e.g. The government asked for advice from our embassy in Washington and from our United Nations delegation in New York? And: How do they feel about having to answer questions about Mulla Krekar's residence permit in Norway? It might also be interesting to get an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e771	I was a little surprised at the question of whether we have considered using the instructional access. We have used the right of pre-war instruction, and so we have instructed on the basis of the security of the state in the first place. Then we're going through the rights that you have in the Norwegian system, and the Norwegian system is full of crossing rights in these areas. Similarly, the information which has been notified in advance of the adoption of such a decision has the right to provide. We have, on the basis of that, and on the basis of new information received, had to go through and check who is the source, what credibility the source has, and what about the actual states? Something has been clarified along the way, namely that he per. today's date admits to having been in northern Iraq, which he did not do in response when we got it. Let me stress that the matter is currently pending in the UDI. When it comes to the department, we'll assess whether or not we're going to use the instructional access, based on the job they've done. We will then consider access to instruction both in the light of national security and in the light of foreign policy. So there are a lot of countries that have probably been interested in the Mulla Krekar case in terms of our department. I can't stand up for all the other departments. We have not asked anyone for advice on how to handle our own law, but we have a request from Jordan for extradition, which is for the treatment of the state attorney and the police. It is quite obvious that other countries that have had interests and views during the course of the case have been involved in this matter. But we haven't actively sought advice. First of all, this is a matter to be resolved under Norwegian law, Norwegian law. Finally, it could also end up in a Norwegian courtroom, because these are the legal guarantees we actually have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e780	I will only again be allowed to challenge the Council of State as regards the last representative Hagen wanted an answer. Is there a dialogue between the Government and our ambassador in Washington, perhaps our delegation to the United Nations in New York, on how to defend the treatment of the Krekar case in Norway? The Minister of Local Affairs was himself concerned with what was said last September. On 13 September last year, she said to NTB: ‘We have spent a lot of time checking all the information and we have been embarrassingly accurate in compliance with Norwegian law’. She would not comment on the background or the content of the advance warning. So now it's been five months. What new elements have arisen in retrospect, which means that the matter cannot be dealt with more quickly than was stated by the Government and the Council of State last September? In the Krekar case in particular, the Council of State refers to the law. I believe that the law may be good enough to practice, and then my challenge to the Council of State is: Are there other issues, similar ones, where people who have taken up residence in Norway and have visited their country of origin have the residence permit withdrawn? Is it the case that the Krekar case is dealt with in particular, that other factors and considerations have been withdrawn, so that it is not possible to take the decision that may have been taken in other cases, where the practice has been practised in such a way that they have been withdrawn from the residence permit once they have visited their country of origin?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e794	The representative Sandberg asks if there have been any other issues. Yes, there have been other things, as far as I have been informed. I want to make it clear that there are limits to just how well I can answer the question of number, etc. But these are things that have lost their refugee status because they have made a return trip. But as I also said in my previous post, at the moment you lose that kind of status, you can still qualify for a number of other types of status in Norway, a little depending on the family situation you have. There is a discretionary assessment of connection that then takes place in many of these cases, so that you can obtain a different residence permit. The Mulla Krekar case is special. There's no other thing like the mulla Krekar case. That is why, at the outset, at the advance notice, we also announced that this was based on the security of the state, because in the individual case it has been added to other and stronger assessments than in the other previous cases, which, as far as I know, have never been submitted to political proceedings. But the Mulla Krekar case, based on the question of repatriation, has been dealt with once before, so the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee is informed about in my letter of reply. There was no concrete evidence of the actual presence in Northern Iraq. A lot of these things are on the verge that you don't have enough concrete evidence to do anything with them. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has no direct dialogue with embassies abroad. I can't exactly answer what issues and what answers the Foreign Minister or the EEAS have felt the need to establish a dialogue with the embassies. In that case, I have to check with the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether there has been a need and whether there has been a dialogue. But it is not within the responsibility of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to have such a dialogue. It is within the scope of foreign policy responsibility. When it takes a long time, it is because the matter is difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e803	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor now have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e808	I have asked for the floor in relation to the proposal by the Progress Party which is in the seats of the representatives. It is such that the disagreement between the Progress Party and the rest of the political environment is, in many cases, quite real and part of the political dynamics in Norway. A debate program without Carl I. Hagen lacks a dimension. Then we can other politicians be jealous of it, but that's the way it is. We can disagree on what makes sense, what consequences this has in the short and long term, etc. These include criminal policy, aid policy, financial policy and immigration policy. Here, there is also real disagreement, political disagreement, about what makes sense. What is good for Norway and its population? There's real disagreement about that. But it can also often be that there is a disagreement between the Progress Party and the other parties in this Chamber because, I had just said, the proceedings – what is the responsibility of the Government and what is the responsibility of the Storting. There we are often on collision courses with each other. The other political parties have a different view of the constitutional issues than what the Progress Party has. We have a division of responsibilities that means that the Government is responsible for making some decisions, they have to have the executive policy, we agree on that. One of the disadvantages of Stortinget taking on more and more of this task is that we do not have a sufficient investigation, we do not have the necessary access to relevant information, etc. So we can make decisions on a wrong basis. The instruction authority of the Stortinget shall have the Stortinget, but it shall be used as intended by the Stortinget to be used. This matter, which is for discussion now, related to the proposal that exists, is within – I had almost said – the whore, it is running at the office and is gradually going to the Council of State. We do not now know what the Council of State will achieve in this matter. We have no reason, as far as I can understand, from this pulpit to intervene in this matter. It has a normal treatment and will have a decision. So it's for the Storting to check if the Government is doing its job as the Storting believes they should do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e817	The point in the Krekar case is that it's being treated abnormally. Other issues are usually dealt with in relation to the practice used in relation to legislation and regulations. But the Krekar case is treated differently. It's draining, and we can't get a clarification. Therefore, it is so important that the Storting can now enter and in a way use the instruction authority. But it is quite right, as the Council of State says, that in 2001 there was a large majority in this Chamber who took responsibility from the Stortinget in such cases and left the whole and full responsibility on the UDI. Even the Council of State and the Government were given limited opportunities in such cases after the majority adopted the amendments at the time. Then it was – I will also mention it – the Progress Party and the Right that did not want those changes. All the other parties wanted to delegate more responsibility from Stortinget to UDI. Hopefully we'll get back to that debate when we evaluate the Foreign Affairs Study. With regard to general problems in relation to travel documents, etc., it should be interesting to see what the parties to Engeset and Engeset say when this is dealt with in the Trade Committee. A week ago, the Progress Party presented a proposal on whether to restrict the issue of foreign passports and travel documents, so that the matter is now under consideration in the Trade Committee. I'm absolutely sure when they're going to conclude in the trade committee, they say that this doesn't have to be taken care of, because it's probably the government and the government that will come up with an answer in the form of a message or a proposition. That's the problem. The majority is not able to make a decision, because we have in a way transferred all responsibility to the government and the government. We don't have the ability to change anything on an independent basis in this room, because all the other parties say, for example. that there is a commission, that we have a sample, that works with the government, that the government will come up with an answer at some point, and then progress in matters gets worse. So it's not like a number of representatives say that this is a smaller problem. The problem is big. Only during 2001, 200 such cases were detected by random checks. And then we know that the numbers of darkness are much larger. There need not be Norwegian travel documents, there may be false documents, etc. The second problem is linked to security policy. There is a comprehensive exchange of such documents, Norwegian travel documents and false documents. We do not really know whether it is the person who has been given a stay in Norway and who is leaving, who is coming back. It could be just another one, because we don't have any control here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e827	The concrete proposal put on the table today lies in my view in a grey zone as to what we should be dealing with. If it's about travel regulations and the Foreign Affairs Act, we shouldn't be dealing with it. However, I accept treatment, and I see that the office of Storting and the Presidency have assessed it so that we should deal with it, because it can be interpreted as being at the discretion of the Government in relation to the security of the State and the Foreign Affairs Act. But it is far from the fact that we should deal with it, that we should vote in favour of it. There are serious reasons why the Storting must vote against this proposal. Just because the matter can be serious, the matter is totally unsuitable for the political game and decision in a kind of referee court that the Stortinget will be in such a case. Legal certainty should not be excluded in individual cases, even if we do not like them – it is the litmus test that a legal State operates, and it must also work if there is a crisis situation. It's important. Nor should the majority exempt the Government from the responsibility it actually has in this case. In that case, who would be responsible for a decision that is or will not be taken and held responsible for it afterwards? Should this be done by a choice, as a single matter, so that the Storting can be held accountable afterwards? It's completely impossible. If this matter concerns foreign policy issues or the security of the state, for which the government is responsible, and for which SV has so far had no reason to doubt that the government is dealing properly, there are many possible outcomes. However, it is clear that in Norway no one can be punished without judgment or judgment without law. It's in the Constitution. In the case of as serious cases as any of the rumors might suggest, it is not clear that the correct solution is to show him out of the country, and thus release himself from the serious responsibility Norway also has in a rather tense world situation in order to possibly prosecute Norway and ensure that he cannot return to the area where he might be suspected of carrying out terrorist activities and increase the risk, thus contributing to the situation becoming even more tense. Norway has a clear responsibility to also make such adjustments when it comes to national security and foreign policy issues. This is a responsibility of the Government. We understand that this has been a difficult matter. We have no reason to suspect the Government not to handle this matter as it should be handled. But we want to remind you – again – that the obvious solution to such a case is not necessarily an expulsion, if it is as serious accusations as it has been suggested.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e834	I understand that the Council of State has problems with the proposal as it now stands, even though the premises also came from the rapporteur from the Chair. I would therefore like to make an addition to the proposal, so that it reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the withdrawal of the Mullah Krekar residence permit on the basis of repeated visits to the country of origin, as a threat to the security of the State and for foreign policy reasons, and sends him back to Iraq.’; Then the two considerations are taken into account in the proposal that would make it more edible to the Council of State if it were to be adopted, and then solve the problems. So Kjell Engretsen said that the mulla Krekar case is a very special thing – a very special thing. I fully agree with that, and most of us agree. But then he said, "That's why it has to be treated in a "normal" way." The Council of State has said the same thing: that is why it should be treated normally. But normal, long processing time, now five months, is completely illogical to me when it's a very special matter. At least it should be treated much faster, and perhaps at a higher level than normal. After Colin Powell's speech to the Security Council, where Mulla Krekar's organisation, Ansar al-Islam, was mentioned, the newspapers said – I don't know if that's right – that there was a meeting between Prime Minister, Foreign Minister and Minister of the Municipal Council on this embarrassing Mulla Krekar case for Norway. It is now being produced again as if there has been no contact with others in the government of Erna Solberg. To me, it is totally incomprehensible that this matter has not been discussed several times by the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Municipal Affairs and the Minister of Justice. I also take it as a matter of course that you have had representatives of the police security service and given views on what kind of action is being taken, to be sure that you have a certain readiness. It would have been done in most other countries. I think it is nice that when everyone agrees that it is a special matter, it should be treated quite normally. We really don't think that's what we're dealing with. We maintain what we have said, but I have made a correction to the proposal, so that there are several premises. Then there is at least a safe constitutional reason after what the state council itself has said, and then the instruction authority is in place, even though Kjell Engebretsen clearly said that the normal thing should be that those who visit their country of origin lose their residence permit. He has himself admitted that he has visited his home country — he has been there several times — and he has also been the head of an organisation that controls a small part of the country and is managed ironically according to the same principles as the Taliban used to do in Afghanistan. So why you should be in doubt as to why he is not expelled is beyond my normal, poor ability to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e852	Carl I. Hagen has changed the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e855	There are two slightly different statements from the Progress Party here. The representative Sandberg said that the Krekar case is being treated ‘unnormally’, while Hagen now said that we have told others that the case is being treated normally. The case is treated abnormally. It's spent much more resources and has been much more attention to control the matter than usual, because it's a serious matter. It is abnormal because the question of the security of the state, which gives the ministry an instruction authority, but which also makes very strong demands, when we are going to use for the first time a law clause relating to this type of foreign affairs, that we have also done the legal processing well enough in relation to what we are going to include in the definition, etc. So it's not just one part, but it's also a legal review and piece that's important to have with it. Let me just say second of all that what I think is a little bit striking sometimes is that Carl I. Hagen picks the tactic when you answer questions about a concrete thing, to interpret it as something completely different. Of course, there has been talk between different government councils and relevant agencies in Norway about the Mulla Krekar case. It is quite obvious and clearly, to get a proper handling of the matter. But that's not what Carl I. Hagen or Per Sandberg asked about. They asked if there has been talk with the ambassador in Washington and the United Nations delegation, and if they have been told what to say to explain this abroad. When I say that I can't answer that, because it's not up to my line of responsibility which contact has been there, I think it's a little inappropriate in the political debate that Mr. Carl I. Hagen makes it so that we should deny that there has been contact between different members of the government. We take this matter seriously, and we highlight all parts and all areas of it and with everyone who has information and interest in the matter. I really think we should be concerned that it is being treated seriously, and that we do not get into a situation where the Norwegian Storing is judged in a Norwegian courtroom to have instructed without a basis – if it should not keep up with everything we have put up with – that could be the end of this case. Because, after all, this case is likely to end up in a Norwegian courtroom – at least I have understood a very active lawyer so far that there will be a great probability of it. I think it would be an embarrassing matter for the Norwegian Grand Prix to be convicted, if necessary, of a decision that does not comply with the legal obligations of the same Grand Duchy. I think we should think about whether that is the way we want to develop the third division of power in Norway, by concealing the relationship of power between the legislative and the executive, and then letting the judicial power clear up in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e866	It cannot be undisputed that the representative Hagen and I interpret the answers as we ourselves wish. It's the Council of State that does it in this case. It's the state council that interprets the questions she gets, where she wants it. But let me try to be a little more specific about the issue of Norwegian authorities and the government has a dialogue with the Norwegian United Nations delegation and our ambassador in Washington. Has the various state councils of the Norwegian Government – Minister for Foreign Affairs, Minister for Defence, Minister for Municipal Affairs – discussed in any context whether there should be a dialogue, or whether there has been a dialogue, with the United Nations delegation and our ambassador in Washington? I understand that the Minister of State has had no direct contact. But have any of the government's other ministers had any contact, and have there been any contact in the state council or in other contexts where the government meets? That's the question, and it shouldn't be so hard to answer. And in relation to that state council now said in its last post: yes, we've all interpreted it to that point that here it's going to be a legal case. But does that necessarily mean that the person in question has to walk around freely in Norway? Can you not then expel the person and still let his lawyer run the case through the Norwegian appeal system? Is there a case that can be compared to where the person has been expelled from Norway, and then the appeal debate and the case plan have been going on, regardless of whether the person had been in Norway or in his country of origin? It should be fully possible in the Krekar case as well. As far as the Foreign Affairs Act is concerned, Krekar, as the representative Carl I. Hagen has now said for several rounds, has himself recognised that he has violated Norwegian practice in relation to travelling to his country of origin and violated the conditions for having a residence permit in Norway. Then a expulsion decision should also be quite simple. If we do, his lawyer and the entire apparatus will be happy to run his appeal through the Norwegian system, as well as before the court, while the person is staying abroad, for there are similar cases where this is practiced.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e873	I have answered the first question. I have no knowledge of what dialogue the EEAS has between themselves and internally. We have dialogue directly with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the matter. Whether they have dialogues down to other parts of the service, or whether they have asked for help to explain the matters, I do not know, nor is it within my constitutional responsibility to have it. I expect that we have a good, professional and competent foreign service. If they need good answers from the Norwegian authorities and from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, they will be helped to get those answers. So let's see if we can exhibit a person. It will be up to a Norwegian court to decide whether or not an expulsion decision that is being appealed will have suspensive effect. That means that it is not up to politicians to send out a person while the case is being brought before the court. It is then for a court to assess whether that appeal will have suspensive effect or not. Nor do I want to look at a philosophy about what will be possible in this case, just say that the normal is – almost in all cases, I don't think I know about any issues where it hasn't been – that the person who may be suing the State or getting an adversarial decision has the right to be present during his own proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e880	First, whether this is a common or an unusual case. It is of course an unusual matter, but the point is that you cannot exclude the legal rules sail if it is an unusual matter. It must be a matter for a court of law, if any, which is proportionate to important principles of law. Because that is what should ensure that all of us, that there are legal orders under which we believe the world should be governed. Then it's not possible to exclude it because it's a person you don't like, or because it's a difficult situation. That's exactly why we have these legal rules, so they have to work when we're being pressured on difficult things. Then there's a question of how we're going to proceed with these provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act, i.e. the travel regulations. It shall be further discussed in the Municipal Committee how it is to be understood and, where appropriate, whether it is to be amended. Then I also think it is important to separate this specific matter and the attitude to it from what the general leadership of practice should be. SV does not at all disagree with a general consideration that it is unfortunate, not desirable and should not be the rule that you can go out and into the home country on holiday. Obviously, it's like this. But I also want to remind you that if you look at e.g. Afghanistan now, part of those in charge there, have been asylum seekers in other countries, have had refugee status in other countries and have travelled out and into Afghanistan under the protection of various tribal leaders and regimes there, just in order to be able to conduct political activities. The refugee status in another country has given them the only opportunity they have to do it. Then we'll discuss whether we want it like this, but it's actually a reality. I think, too, that if you go over the pond, which the Progress Party likes to do, and see 'over there', then there are some people sitting there, too, pushing ideas about picking up an Iraqi government from people who may have refugee status in other countries and who have traveled out and into Iraq to build up internal resistance. So this thing has a lot of sides that we have to discuss completely on a general basis. However, as a general consideration, SV agrees that it should not be that it is free to get asylum in Norway and then be able to go home again on vacation. One cannot, however, rely on an individual matter such as this one which is entirely general, such as that which should be prohibited in any situation. At that time, the situation in some of the countries that have experienced change, and where refugees have been able to come home and contribute to change, had been different from what it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e889	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1850]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e905	At the request of the family, culture and the Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes left. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a sequence change of up to three sequences with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each group and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e916	This is a historic day. It's the first time we have such a comprehensive review of child protection. And as the rapporteur-in-Office, I should like to commend my colleagues on their very high level of commitment in this area. Discussions have been high and there are many issues that have been raised in the Committee's work on the notification. It shows that the Committee has as much commitment to this matter as it has both the Christian People's Party and the Government. It is also gratifying to record that the Storting has gathered on most of this message. It is important, in my view, that child protection is broadly political in nature and has legitimacy in the population. The Communication describes more than 70 actions, and in addition, the Committee has brought together a number of others. The Storting Communication describes some history, some of it about the present, but above all visions and concrete measures for the further work in the field of child protection. The focus of child protection has changed from having parents in the centre to having a child’s best-perspective in all child protection. Let me first comment on today's news in the NRC that child protection in Norway reports significantly less violence to the police than for example. the protection of children in Sweden. I will ask the Council of State Davøy here too, as she has done in other matters, to act. We cannot accept that violence or other abuses against children are not being charged and investigated. This may be rooted in a profession that exists in some areas of this country. The message describes that there are large numbers of darkness, and we require action. So to the message: the main conclusion of the message is that despite positive developments in recent years, we have another piece of time before we can say that child protection is the central supporter of vulnerable children and young people and their families that we want child protection to be. Some of the grips that we take in this message will be good steps on that path. State Council Davay sums up four issues of child protection in an article in Dagbladet: 1st@item: inlistbox Child protection is too late to be able to provide good enough help.2. Cooperation with other agencies and assistance services is not good enough.3. The legitimacy of child protection in the population is too low.4. There is too little political awareness and too little involvement around the work of child protection in the municipalities. These four points have led to the four objectives of the Government for this area: 1st@item: inlistbox Measures must be put in place before, and closer to, the families. Early intervention or prevention is particularly important.2. The coordination between the establishments working with the children needs to be strengthened. Coordination of prevention or early intervention needs to work better, in particular for vulnerable children and young people.3. The legitimacy of child protection in the population must be strengthened, both among children and parents, and among occupational groups.4. Local politicians need to be more involved in discussions on child protection arrangements and working methods and to be able to influence choices in relation to prevention efforts for vulnerable children and young people in their municipality. Let me first stress that parents have the primary responsibility for children. They are usually the most important resource the child has. Children are well off by parents. But when parents fail, or are short, both children and parents need help. However, children cannot be characterised only as children by parents. They are also the inhabitants of society and the future of the nation. Nevertheless, one of the basic basic values is anchored in the biological principle. The right to start a family is firmly rooted in UN human rights. Children's rights guarantee the child the right to know their biological origin, to receive care from them and not to be arbitrarily separated from their parents. Being separated from their parents is perceived as a trauma to the vast majority of children. It is not possible to establish simple criteria for use in individual cases when assessing the extent to which it is acceptable and acceptable to break the band to biological parents. This requires good professional child protection with a high level of competence and the ability and ability to use judgement. The work of child protection workers today has impressed me in many ways. There are enormous human resources devoted to improving the daily lives of children and families. On the Committee's journeys, we have met some of these workers. It's people who don't just work professionally, but they give of themselves as fellow humans. They're the ones who like to get the phone when important things happen in a child's life later. I feel the need to underline this, because the media's presentation of some issues often gives a distorted picture of the totality of child protection. It is important that child protection makes itself aware of openness as far as possible. To this end, the Committee supports the efforts to improve the transparency of the counties. The demystification of child protection is important in order to strengthen its position. But if we look at numbers from the Statistical Central Bureau, I'm wondering who has the greatest mistrust of child protection. Only 3 pst. of the concerns messages come from kindergartens, only 5 pst. from health centres, 11 pst. from school, while the whole 25 pst. come from the parents themselves. Then I am a little surprised that SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre want the health centres to have a coordinating responsibility. After all, it must be based on little knowledge of child protection when there are no more messages coming from health centres. Child protection has a problem in that they have not been visible in the cooperative arenas, but I know that there can be a professional fight from both sides here. Here is some of the disagreement in the committee. Fortunately, the entire Committee concludes that it is important that the municipalities themselves identify appropriate forms of cooperation between the different bodies, but I am surprised that the general role of the health centre as a wide range of services will be removed. If you move child protection into the health center, it will take a huge toll on the station's work. It will change the ability of the health centre to provide a wide range of services to all, and it will relieve those trained to work with vulnerable children and young people in particular, of their primary responsibility. I am surprised that parties who are normally close to the trade union movement will weaken child protection educators, socionomists and other child protection workers who have a primary responsibility for this matter. The Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party have agreed to point out that child protection can and should perhaps be the natural coordinator. The obligation of professional secrecy has been viewed by many as an obstacle to understanding what child protection is, but especially for cooperation across professionals, and also in police relations. In my opinion, it is the interpretation of the practice of professional secrecy that is the biggest problem. There is a growing understanding and recognition in the trade unions that the importance of parents for children is high, even though care is scarce or absent. For this reason, the Committee underlines the agreement with regard to the notification that it is important that parents be followed up throughout the process and that even after taking care of the child, it is important that parents be cared for with regard to information and knowledge about the child’s situation. A majority of the Committee is in favour of guaranteeing treatment in the field of drugs and psychiatry for children in the field of child protection. This, I think, is alarming. It sounds offensive, but it undermines the foundation of the Patient Rights Act. The Patient Rights Act states in Section 2-1 that there is a sound medical professional assessment to provide a basis for treatment. This applies to the right to necessary health care. Prioritisation of specific groups in the law will violate this priority principle enshrined in the Patient Rights Act. In turn, children and young people with child protection measures may be given priority to other seriously ill children and young people with even greater treatment needs. We in the Christian People's Party cannot be part of that. Another thing to note is that this matter falls within the scope of another committee, and when they dealt with a similar proposal, it was voted down. In the Committee’s hearings, it was found that we are entering a grey area in the case of pregnant drug addicts on drug treatment. Here you can't use coercion, and we don't know much about how children in their mother's life are affected by, for example. methadone. Professional environments disagree. The Committee asks the Government to look at this issue. For many of these mothers, this is the desired child. Finally, you have a calm life situation, and the desire to be a mother is coming. Interview with a mother in the evening post shows that she shares our concern for the child. For us in the Christian People's Party, the purpose is to protect the fetus, and any action should be in the best interests of the child. There are many more things I could have taken up. I could address single minor asylum seekers, children who are victims of abuse, childhood and juvenile delinquency, but when the notification contains over 70 concrete proposals for action, it is not possible to highlight everything. But the vision of the Christian People's Party for Child Protection is a child protection that comes in quickly and that, in cooperation with other institutions, makes families function, which is seen as a central supporter, and which is well politically anchored – a child protection for the benefit of our families, but above all for the benefit of our children.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e983	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e986	Today's society is tough for children and young people. Many young people are very alone, and most parents have a full-time job. Many children and young people need follow-up, and many need adult contact. As we are all familiar with, we see a worrying development for many of our young people. Suicide is one of the most well-known causes of death for children and young people between the ages of 10 and 19. This is especially true for girls. The Children’s Ombudsman also reports a steady flow of enquiries, especially from girls who are struggling with, among other things. suicidal thoughts of an alarming nature. In that light, it is amazing that the Christian People's Party does not see the importance and importance of establishing an emergency phone for young people. Why does the Christian People's Party not want such a measure as one of several contributions to help children who are in a desperate situation, who need urgent help, and who are asking for help? I would like this to be one of the 70 measures, as the representative Eriksen mentioned several times, which the Government had included in the communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e993	We have carefully considered the proposal on the emergency telephone. In our assessment we went in to find out what is available. It is a wide range of offers for children and young people. For example, Red Cross. runs a good phone for children and young people. The Children's Ombudsman has one. But what's in the proposal is getting a special emergency phone, an alarm phone that allows you to pull out. That means we need to have contact via the emergency phone with the child protection guard. It will be able to sort out the usual emergency numbers today, where child guards already exist. We want to build on the already existing offer of emergency telephones, but we believe, of course, that it needs to be strengthened and have the contact extended to the child-rescue guards, and that, in line with other emergency messages, it responds where necessary. That's why the Christian People's Party has looked at what's available and wants to use the existing alarm phone also for children and young people, because there is already competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e998	First, to the representative, Eriksen. She calls my party "Fremskritt". Our name is Progress Party or FrP – just for information. What really upsets me is that the representative Eriksen from the Christian People's Party thinks it is alarming that the Workers' Party, SV and the Advance Party are in favour of particularly vulnerable children being entitled to psychiatric treatment and treatment for drug abuse. This applies to children under child protection measures. She uses the excuse, to put it this way, that we have a patient rights law. Now, we know that there are long queues in spite of the patient rights law.There are long queues for treatment in psychiatry, and there may be even longer queues to accommodate an institution against drug abuse for children under 18 years of age. So I just want to ask the representative Eriksen if she really meant what she said, that it was alarming that we went in to get the right to treat children who are under child protection measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1005	The reason for my abbreviation was enough that I realized that time went too fast, and I skipped over and swallowed some words. I know very well that the party is called the Progress Party or the FrP. Then to the representative of the Progress Party on this subject with the right to treatment. Today, we have a patient rights law that gives a right to treatment. If we raise some groups in front of others, we say, for example, that a child under the age of 18 who may have greater psychiatry and intoxication pressures but is not under child protection measures has to stand in the queue because it is not under child protection. Today we have a patient rights law that says that you should receive treatment, you should take action. The fact that there are long queues means that we have to do something at the other end, not that we still have to do new rights, and that the groups that are in line have to fight each other closely about this. We have a patient rights law that covers the general right to treatment. In fact, we do. On that basis, I believe that it is alarming, and on that basis I think it is also alarming that we in the family, cultural and administrative committee are dealing with this which is a matter of another committee, without having a proper supporting material when it is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1012	I hope the representative of the Christian People's Party does not believe that we should not give children rights. We have a children's convention right around the corner that's just dealing with part of it. Prevention for children and young people is much more than child protection. We do not say that the health centre should take over the responsibilities of child protection. What we are saying is that the health centre should have a driving role in the prevention of children and young people, and that is much more than child protection. Users shall be able to enter one door and the various services shall meet the family at the health centre. It is unrealistic to assign that responsibility to child protection without allocating more resources. The majority have not said a single word about that. Everyone who was in consultation about this message thought it was totally unrealistic to add this to child protection. The only people who thought it was possible were FO. But if child protection were to play that role, much more was needed. How much resources will the Christian People's Party put in to ensure that the pressured protection of children is able to carry out the task you put up here?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1019	Where that conclusion comes from, with which the representative started his speech, that she does not hope that the representative of the Christian People's Party does not go into the rights of children, I do not understand. On the contrary, I argued in my previous answer that children’s rights are general, and that they apply to all children, both those under child protection measures and other children and young people. We are going to come back strongly to the inclusion of children's rights in Norwegian law since then, so we are going to have a lot of discussion. Regarding this with health stations, I believe it is important that the municipality looks at prevention in two ways. One is the general prevention work for children and young people to be coordinated. The second is the prevention and coordination of particularly vulnerable children and young people. It's in relation to what I think we should get child protection to take the responsibility that they're actually specially trained for. It's interesting that today it's only 5 pst. of the distress messages coming from health stations. That means we have a job to do. But when it's said, if in a municipality it would be most appropriate to add this to the health center, we in the Christian People's Party say it's okay. Most importantly, municipalities themselves find appropriate ways to do this and that coordination is actually done. So it's priority number. 1, but we want to show trust in child protection so that they can make use of their special skills in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1031	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1034	Every day we read and hear about child protection deficiencies, about children and young people who do not receive the follow-up they are entitled to, and about child protection workers who experience an increasingly under pressure every day. It is therefore important that the Stortinget now has a thorough review of the situation of children and young people and the situation in the municipalities. From that point of view, the child-restraint report, which we are dealing with today, is necessary and important. On Friday, Hamar Arbeiderblad had an article that describes the situation in child protection as serious. Time limits are not being met, and there is an increasing number of reports of difficult issues, where drug use and mental health problems are increasingly occurring. The labour pressure on employees leads to a high level of sick leave. The notification of cancellation should point to measures that can address the problems described by the municipality of Hamar and a number of other municipalities and counties around the country. It is a fact that more and more of the issues raised by child protection are heavier and more difficult than before. Genders of children and young people in childhood and youth psychiatry are increasing, first-time criminals are getting younger and problems among children are increasing at risk. The number of children with severe behavioural problems is also increasing. Unfortunately, too many parents fail their children. Against this background, it is gratifying that the entire Committee agrees that the Government must report annually to the Stortinget on the situation in the municipalities with regard to the follow-up to child protection enquiries. All the signs we see show that we need to put in a wide range of prevention and relief measures if children's suffering is not to continue to increase and repair costs increase. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee, among other things, in order to legislate the right ‘to treatment for drugs and psychiatry’ for children with child protection measures. Child protection employees make an impressive daily effort for our children and young people. They deserve all kinds of reward for the job they do. However, we feel that the wear and tear of the employees is high and the sick leave is too high. The weak community economy we have today also affects child protection, and we get negative results for kindergartens, schools, SFOs and health centres. It is important, yes, absolutely necessary that we can ensure enough personnel to take care of our most vulnerable children. We here in Stortinget must realize that it is better to build up under children than to repair adults, and it costs. The Working Party believes that child protection needs significantly greater resources for action and staff to be able to deploy important and appropriate assistance. It's to hope that the government parties will soon realize this as well. On the news today, we heard that child protection does not report to the police about serious cases, and the police told us that children could have been abused for many years before someone discovered them. With the social development we see, where, among other things, Suicide is one of the most frequent causes of death among young people aged 10 to 19 years, we believe it is important that children are able to receive prompt and effective professional assistance in emergency situations. The Children’s Ombudsman says they get many messages of an alarming nature from children and young people. The working party therefore wishes to establish an emergency telephone for children and young people in need of emergency assistance. I would also like to point out the importance of the overall family situation for the safety and living situation of children. When father or mother loses their job, yes, then the whole life for the whole family changes, also for the children. Therefore, unemployment must be combated not least for the sake of children. Now unemployment is rising. That the government should take more seriously. Child protection faces major and important challenges. The approach taken by the Labour Party in this debate is that the problems faced by many municipalities and county councils should be turned around – for the benefit of the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1053	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1056	The Working Party claims to be committed to maintaining legal certainty in child protection matters. It is very positive, and I am glad that the Workers' Party has also been involved in legal protection. But why do they ask for an assessment of whether the county council should be given the right of instruction to municipal child protection? What I hope the representative Eirin Fallet can clarify is what they want to achieve through such a right of instruction. I then remind you that in their comments, the Workers' Party explicitly says that they want the countyman to be able to ‘overprove’ the child protection across professional advice. It is now possible for the county to review all decisions taken in municipal child protection. The County Council is also the Board of Appeal for all municipal child protection decisions. I would like to ask the representative Eirin Fallet a very specific question, which I hope I can get a clear answer to: Let's imagine a case where the county councillor intervenes and instructs the child protection department to offer an offer to an vulnerable child. If the parents disagree with the instructions given by the county councillor, who are they to complain to? Does the Workers' Party mean that the parents should then complain to the same state that has instructed the protection of children?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1065	It seemed like Afghan Rafiq was amazed that we were concerned with legal certainty. My truth is that the Workers' Party has had government power in this society for very many years and has ensured that we have the legal certainty we have in our country. Maybe that's what Afshan Rafiq should remember. When we're concerned about overcoming child protection, it's because we want a fair distribution for all our children across the country. Now it's like we want a uniform treatment. Today, the county council has the opportunity to review. We want him to have a right of instruction. As Afghan Rafiq should know very well, many municipalities have an economic situation that, sometimes – I say sometimes – can go at the expense of the best action for children. We therefore want the county to be able to go in and guide the municipalities and say that action needs to be taken here to the best of the child. That's why we want to give the county council a right of instruction.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1072	I also want to ask the Workers' Party about a specific matter. This applies to foster parents. The Progress Party has made a proposal to make a legislative change to consider other biological families as foster parents. Unfortunately, we are not getting any support for this. The working party says in its comments that it is not necessary to legislate, because it can be written in the guidelines. Very familiar are guidelines of advice, so I wonder why the Workers' Party does not want a legislative change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1079	When it comes to the assessment of foster parents, we want the children to be involved in the placement. We have a hope that there are resources in the immediate family, but it's actually that sometimes the closest family can be the child's worst enemy. That is why we do not want to support that bill. When we go in order for it to be incorporated into the guidelines, it's because they're advisory, and then it has to be assessed on a case-by-case basis. In fact, we believe that the best thing for the child is that an assessment is made on a case-by-case basis. Many grandparents, aunts and uncles may be excellent foster parents, perhaps the best, but then it will be assessed according to the child's current situation, and based on what's best for the child's future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1086	It's a majority decision that I can't get out of, because here the representative talks about the Workers' Party having been in charge of legal security, and that they have run the country for much of the last decades. I believe that the Patient Rights Act is based on part of the same values on which the Workers' Party is based: equal rights for all. It is a general law that prioritises patients on the basis of treatment needs. Patients with the greatest need for treatment should receive first aid. This applies in principle irrespective of diagnosis, age and gender, although these are criteria that can be used to assess the individual’s treatment needs. What is it that makes the Workers' Party go away from equal rights for everyone and will start letting some people go in front of others in the queue? Is a child who is not subject to child protection measures but has greater needs than these now to be put in line? I would like the representative's answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1095	It was a good question from one who lives by the statement: the last will be the first. That being said, it's actually like children who need psychiatric help, and who are under the care of child protection, maybe they're all, the weakest. That's who we're talking about. We're asking for an assessment. We ask these children to have rights, and they must be the ones that need it the most. There's a double burden for these to get problems. They may, for various reasons, have had to align themselves with other people than their parents. They're under child protection, and in many cases it's a huge human burden. Once again they have additional problems, they should be able to get the help they need as quickly as possible! That's what the Workers' Party stands for in this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1100	The President is somewhat uncertain whether the representative has taken up the proposals she might have intended to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1103	I don't, and it's with pride I'm doing it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1109	The representative of the Fall has proudly addressed the Labour Party's proposal. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1114	For the Right, it is essential to ensure that all children’s rights and requirements for a good and developmental growth environment are guaranteed. In this context, we believe that equivalence and participation are fundamental values that impose specific requirements on those responsible. We think it is important to stress that child protection should not take more responsibility from families, but rather work to build up and support families. However, in those cases where the home does not have the power to carry out its care tasks, society has a special obligation to organise schemes that ensure that all children receive good care and growth conditions. Child protection plays an important role here. We are therefore very pleased that the Government has now come forward with this communication aimed at improving the provision of vulnerable children and young people, strengthening prevention of family work, better follow-up of parents and foster parents, and strengthening the work of children and young people with a minority background. There is an increasing number of children with a minority background seeking assistance in the field of child protection, signaling the need to strengthen the multicultural competence of child protection. Cultural differences, including: in the form of different family patterns and growing-up environments, ways of communication, lack of parental awareness of the challenges of growing up in Norwegian society, and scepticism of Norwegian society and culture, examples of how this work is different from other child protection issues. There is currently little research in the area of child protection and children and young people with a minority background, and there is little evidence of the decision-making basis of child protection in the selection of relief or care measures and of the impact of measures on these children. Here, I believe it is important that we get systematized knowledge to give all children, regardless of their background, an adapted offer. I hope this is also something the government can take on and work on. In order to achieve the objectives of a comprehensive and accurate offer, we support the Government’s view that there are in particular four steps to be taken. Firstly, the importance and quality of early prevention assistance for children and young people and their families need to be increased. Often it seems that relief measures are being introduced too late, so that they do not have the desired effects. At the same time, assistance is not sufficiently seen in the context of the overall family situation. Secondly, child protection should become a more visible and central player in the work of vulnerable children and young people in the municipalities. The law also imposes extensive cooperation on the protection of children. Today, no agency or service has the primary responsibility to coordinate the efforts of vulnerable children and young people in the municipalities. In the future, it is therefore important to ensure such a function. We believe that such a coordinating function should lie with child protection, but at the same time we are open to the fact that the municipalities themselves should be allowed to decide how they will organise this coordination. Thirdly, we believe that political awareness and commitment to child protection must be strengthened. This could be done, for example, by: by providing local authorities with an annual report on the situation in the field of child protection such as: contain proposals for preventive measures. Fourthly, the legitimacy of child protection must be strengthened. It is in part of the nature of the area that child protection can never become a directly popular service. On the other hand, it is an objective to respect child protection for the tasks assigned to it and to achieve legitimacy among users, partners and society at large. In the end, I want to give the government credit for the fact that they really have the courage to take these important steps. It is also the case that this Communication contains very good measures for a new and modern child-restraint such as: are comprehensive and grouped, and can help vulnerable children at the same time early. We are also very pleased with the broad cross-political consensus in the Committee on, among other things, the main steps proposed by the Government in the area of child protection and youth protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1140	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1143	We have been informed that the number of cases of child protection in municipalities is increasing from year to year, and child protection reports insufficient resources and high penetration of first-line employees. In some places foster parents have met up to five different case handlers in the same number of years. It hits the weakest in our society. Children's homes still have to expand their minds and minds for new helpers. Positions are often occupied by newly educated child protection educators with little experience. But actually these positions should be status positions advanced to, as continuity is very important for these children. So to the local economy that is helping to strengthen child protection. I would like to ask the representative from the Right: What can the Right contribute to ensuring prevention and proper and sufficient staff in a situation where we all know that today's local economy often results in poor service provision for this group as well? So all the way to the end. Why does the representative, Mr Rafiq and Mr Right, not dare to take part in a proposal from the Workers' Party, where we ask the Government to investigate the consequences of introducing an authorisation system for the reception of single minor asylum seekers in line with child protection institutions? What is the right fear of supporting this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1154	I would like to remind Eirin Fallet of what she said earlier today, that it is, after all, the Workers' Party which has been mainly in the hands of the government over the last 20 years. And the result she refers to, among other things, in the field of child protection, is precisely the result of the policy pursued mainly by the Labour Party Governments. So here it's important to take responsibility for this as well. What the co-operation administration is actually doing is just taking responsibility, taking some important steps that the former governments have not dared to take. Then to the local economy. It's true that the local economy is tight. Because we know that if it's not, it's going to weaken the dollar rate. This will lead to higher interest rates and will also contribute to the loss of more jobs. We have made sure that municipalities have improved their finances by giving them a tight budget. It has meant more money in the form of a reduction in interest rates for too many municipalities, and it means, in turn, that they have gained a better economy to give priority to the measures they want to prioritise, including child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1163	The representative Rafiq spoke about political anchoring. She thought that political commitment would increase at municipal level if an annual report on the situation of child protection in the municipality. How does the representative Rafiq think this can increase the exposure? Should it be possible to get a hold of all the others that local government representatives get – where there are some columns, some frames and some numbers up and down – to increase the involvement of local government politicians? The municipal politician is responsible both for the economy of the municipality and for the economy of child protection. Is it not time, then, for the politician to again be responsible for the professional content of child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1168	I just want to remind the representative Karin S. Woldseth that I said that this could be among some measures that can be taken in relation to increasing the political commitment on this matter. This was not the only measure, but an example of how to do it. I want to refer here to the message, because there it is that you focus on wanting to increase the political commitment and awareness of the work of child protection today. It is also the case that under the law of today, there is an opportunity to set up a range of clients, and that is about. 130 municipalities that have already done that. It is quite up to the municipalities how they want to organise this in relation to their local challenges and needs. As I said, in principle, it must be the municipalities themselves that are allowed to decide how they want to organise their work. But unfortunately, I see that both the Workers' Party, SV and the Advance Party, who have been talking about local self-government for a long time, are now moving away from their promises to strengthen it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1177	We're talking about the weakest kids and young people we have in our society, and we're concerned with legal certainty. It's actually the overall economy. The message says that 11 municipalities grant fewer measures than before in 2000. In Eastfold, for example: Only 43 psts are granted. of the enquiries. This is very serious, and the refusals are justified around the economy. The economy of municipalities and counties has deteriorated during this government. The entire Committee stresses the importance of Norwegian legal protection for minor asylum seekers. We've been talking a lot here today about equality for the law. In the first nine months of last year, 65 single minor asylum seekers disappeared from Norwegian reception without being requested. No one knows where they are. Some of the 65 are probably not minors, but you're calculating a number of 45. The youngest is a 14-year-old girl. The Committee fears that some of these children live as slaves and prostitutes. We have a majority comment on that. It is not acceptable for children in Norway to be treated in this way. So do we say that. These are children who often have a very traumatic background that makes them need special follow-up. Why, then, do not the government parties support equality with the law? Why is it not supported by the proposal put forward by the Progress Party, the SV and the Central Party, where we are asking the Government to amend the Child Protection Act so that lone minor asylum seekers under the age of 18 will be covered by this law, as all other children under the age of 18 in this country who do not have parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1186	We know that this is an old SV case. But I'm also a little surprised that the Progress Party is now jumping on this. For the right, it is important that unaccompanied minor asylum seekers are well taken care of. It is not certain that they all need child protection measures. Nor is it certain that they are children, in fact, because it has also occurred, even though many people pretend to be. Nor are they certain that they are real asylum seekers. However, the quality of the reception facilities should be good and the duration of the stay should be as short as possible. As far as I am aware, it is the municipalities that are responsible for them today, and most of the municipalities take very good care of minor refugees. But of course it can get better. There's no doubt about it. However, if there are specific needs, child protection services have an obligation to follow up single minors. Childcare services shall include, inter alia: follow up a notification of concern about lone minors travelling from reception to relatives or others and who do not reappear. We've seen that they haven't been good enough. In addition, the UDI has developed a number of procedures dealing with children who disappear from reception. These routines illustrate, among other things: responsibility for the reception, for the police, for the protection of children, for the poison, etc. The reason why we do not support this proposal is precisely that there is a tool that can work effectively when minor asylum seekers disappear. But what's important is that you manage to make it more efficient and make it work the way it should. That's what the problem is today, that it doesn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1197	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1200	Today we have a very important message for treatment here in Stortinget, St.meld. No 40 for 2001-2002, on the protection of children and young people. Outside the Norwegian population, this communication has been waiting a long time for a change. Why, someone will probably ask themselves. But it's actually pretty obvious when you look at the focus that child protection gets in the media. You can read almost weekly about abuse of power and abuse on the part of child protection. These are signals that we politicians – and child protection professionals – should take very seriously. The Child Welfare Committee points out in its report on the protection of children that these deficiencies result in a lack of legitimacy in the population. And it's not surprising at all when child protection often intervenes in matters too late, and only when a crisis has occurred that makes it necessary to remove the child from its biological parents. Then it is not difficult to understand that child protection becomes the big ugly wolf that destroys families and violates privacy, at least this is what they experience. If child protection is to be regarded as an aid body and a family service body, it is likely that the structure should be radically changed. First of all, child protection should be much more focused on the fact that the starting point must be that the vast majority of children do the best with their parents. Much can be done with small resources at an early stage, enabling children to remain with their biological parents. We are talking about relief measures at home, about relief and close follow-up both at home and in the community. This is not just an airy idea from the Progress Party, but the way you work in other countries, as in, for example. both Sweden and Denmark. In a child-rescue hearing that was held in Bergen a few years ago, the child-rescue children themselves told how it felt to be removed from their families. This was perhaps the greatest harm that was done to these children, to move them from family to institutions, to shelters, to foster homes, and again new foster homes, when so much could have been done in the children's own family at a much earlier time. I'm not saying that all children are the best at home. We know that that's not the case. Unfortunately, there are children who are subjected to abuse or sexual abuse at home, and there are children growing up in heavy drug settings. And these kids need help. I repeat, these children need help. When you have to move children from their biological parents, it has not been common practice in the past that you first see if there are anyone else in the biological family who has the ability to take care of them. Child protection has too often placed children in foster families who have both one, two or even three other foster children for whom they are responsible, while in the child’s biological family, aunts, uncles and grandparents are fully capable – and not least willing – of caring for the children. We need to look at the consequences for the child. It's important for a child to feel belonging and security, and I'll think that the child feels more secure with his own biological family, to which it has references, than with a completely alien family. Therefore, the Progress Party proposes that consideration be given first to the ability of other biological families to raise the child before looking for other solutions. But before you get that far, the matter has been dealt with in detail, or you have agreed with your parents on voluntary takeover. We set up a special court, and maybe it was for a good purpose. But the consequences of a county are probably somewhat different, depending on which county you live in. I myself have been sitting in the municipal client committee, where the only assignment we had was to make sure that the case was sufficiently illuminated to be promoted in the county. The case, which was designed by child protection, often had a scale of the size of a wooden lexicon, where the parents’ vision was completely omitted. On the other hand, there were always very long investigations by experts, experts who had been paid by the same public body that provided the case, psychologists who at times must have come to a great deal of trouble with their own ethical principles. Professionals who investigate either children or parents and who are paid by the counterparty must very often lose some of the objectivity in their conclusions. Economic bonds and ethics are not always as easy to reconcile. That is why it is very desirable – and we therefore propose – for the members to be wound up and for the child protection cases to be returned to the ordinary judiciary, thereby ensuring legal certainty both for the child and for the parents. However, in order to ensure both those children who are already under the care of child protection and those who have child protection measures but still live at home, the Progress Party wants to establish child protection. Here it is obvious that someone from the other parties misunderstands what the Progress Party believes, when they claim that since the county already has a supervisory responsibility, it holds. But that's exactly what it doesn't do. The county has a responsibility for child protection — that’s right — but a little depending on the county in which you live, the county doesn’t follow this up. The County does not go into individual cases unless they receive a complaint. The county council members are appointed by the county council, and when the county council is also to be the supervisory body, I am afraid that this is actually becoming a bit of "buck and oat sack" issue. That is why the Progress Party wants its own State Child Protection Authority on the basis of a model from other independent control authorities, but I will come back to this later today. I will spend the last few minutes in my post on a couple of other proposals that the Progress Party has promoted in this matter. Unfortunately, there does not seem to be a willingness in the political environment to change existing child protection. I guess the other political parties are happy with child protection as it is. I used to talk about legal certainty, and then, of course, it's the child I have in mind. When the public wants to remove children and young people from their biological family, it rarely or never happens on the premises of children or young people. It can therefore very often be seen that the public, with child protection at the head, acts as a bulldozer. Therefore, the Advance Party wishes to propose the appointment of a spokesperson for the child, who is to speak only the child’s case. I have had enquiries from 13-year-olds who are asking for my help. They do not understand what they have done wrong. All they want is to be heard. Unfortunately, however, there seems to be very little emphasis on what the child or youth thinks about forced displacement. There is little help in saying that children should be heard from birth onwards, as SV wants, when one does not even take into account what a 12-13-year-old has to say. That's why it's important to get your own talker for the child, who can communicate on the premise of adults in the hope that at least you get what your children think and what they want. Actually, the Progress Party wants to end child protection in its present form, but this is not our society ready for yet. That is why we believe that we need to improve existing child protection. That's not good enough. It is not good enough when children who are under public care, and are the responsibility of the public, suffer, when they can tell about a rotless growth, loveless and completely without good role models. It goes without saying that it is difficult to relate to 30–40 adults in an institution, or – as the worst example I have heard of – to over 90 employees in an institution with six young people. Are not the children or young people being removed from their parents because child protection is of the opinion that biological parents are unable to give the child the care and love that the big community thinks is right? Then I am amazed that child protection sees it as right to place these children and young people in places where it is obvious that they cannot get the necessary care and – perhaps most importantly – love. Abused and abused children are, if possible, even more vulnerable and need an even better support device around them. That's where the public fails, because we do. Many of these children end up as drug addicts and psychiatric cases before they reach the age of 18. What do we have to offer these children when they have to wait months for treatment and treatment of their traumas? Now I might draw a rather gloomy picture of today's child protection, but it's right, I'm going to believe that all the enquiries I get from both child protection children, from former children's protection and from parents and relatives. Therefore, it is important that we go new ways, that we recognise that we may have done wrong and look at how other countries deal with risk children and young people. In Denmark, there is cooperation between SSPs, i.e.: cooperation between school, social affairs and the police, just to discourage the involvement of children and young people in criminal environments. All three of these sectors have a continuous cooperation where the obligation of professional secrecy does not prevent them from strengthening the local networks of children. [[The President clubs.]] I would just like to inform you that we want to vote subsidiaryly for the proposals No. Two and nine. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1244	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1249	In the Child Protection Act, the best thing for the child is an overall basic value. It also complies with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. In all contexts, this means taking into account first and foremost what is best for the child. These considerations shall also be taken into account in cases where the child is away from home. Here I'm actually a little in doubt if the Progress Party fully agrees with itself. In the proposal of the Progress Party, the focus is shifted from the child's best to the child's closest family. How does the Advancement Party feel that the child’s best interests are being protected when it comes to the law that the child’s immediate family should always be examined as the first alternative? Does the Advancement Party believe that the closest family is always the best for the child? How, then, is the child’s own contribution in this regard well cared for?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1256	The representative Pedersen doesn't have to be afraid that we don't have the child's best in focus. Whatever we do, it's the child's best or the child's right that comes first. When we want a change in the law that goes on for biological family to be investigated first, it's because in too many cases we've seen that a biological family that has been fully capable of caring for the child, and wanted to do so, has not been given a chance to do so. That is why we want it to be considered as the first option. If it's not a real alternative, you get to look at other alternatives. That's what we meant. It is stated in the proposal ‘as the first option’.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1263	The State has overall responsibility for the protection of children and the county has to supervise the activities of child protection in individual municipalities and institutions. In addition, the county shall both provide guidance and control and supervise the private child protection institutions and the State Council shall ultimately have overall responsibility for the protection of children. This is also agreed by the Progress Party. The Progress Party also agrees that the State should assume responsibility for the county child protection system and, in its own observations, justifies the fact that such an organisation will be the most equivalent offer possible throughout the country. But then there comes a remarkableness, which the representative, to some extent, was also involved in his post. She says that it is very unfortunate that some tasks as important as child protection and family protection remain in the county council as a restraining gift, and asks the government to investigate and promote proposals for the establishment of state supervision. But we already have state supervision through the county, which is the state's extended arm. It is not for the county councils to supervise the protection of children neither in the municipalities nor in the regions. I have to ask the representative, Woldseth, three things. Firstly, what does she think this child-protection body should do that has not already been taken care of by the state through the state? Secondly, what are the restraints she seeks to achieve that remain in the county? And thirdly, how does she feel that centralised child protection supervision should be able to provide better supervision of child protection than that done locally through the county? I just don't understand this. I also think it is quite bold, as the representative said in his post, that there are several states where the county does not do their job. I believe that the representative, Mr Woldseth, should prove that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1274	If I'm going to answer all the questions I got from the Right now, I have to get another ten minutes, but I'm going to explain as best I can. With regard to child protection supervision and the tasks to be entrusted to it, there shall be an appeal body. Unfortunately, we don't get rid of the authorities. The party initially wanted to get rid of them. We won't get rid of them. In the counties there are representatives appointed by the counties. At the same time, the health and social services of the county are to monitor the protection of children. It is child protection that brings cases before the county council, and the complaints go to the county council. Does the representative from the Right not see that there will be a ‘bucket and oatmeal’ issue and that a child-protection body will be an independent supervisory body in line with the Competition Authority, the Data Protection Authority and other such supervision? That is what we want, which can ensure that there is no abuse of power in child protection, which we have seen repeatedly. Now I don't quite remember the question, but it went on centralised child protection, how it can do the job better. It's clear, because it's a free body, a free body that can go completely under its own terms and look at the working methods that have been used, the abuse of power that has been done, and actually investigate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1283	The main reason for setting up these districts in 1993 that replaced the children’s protection centre and the social committee in the municipalities, which was a former scheme, was to strengthen legal certainty for children and parents in child protection cases. When I've heard the argument of the Progress Party when they want to shut down the county councils, while they want to set up local children's councils, client committees – call it what you want – and it hasn't been the proximity that has been the argument of the Progress Party, but how the system works, I'm a little surprised that you want to make local councillors in all municipalities instead. In addition, I have to be allowed to point out one thing. The comment of the Progress Party in the setting states that the recital has no appeal. However, a decision of the county council may be brought into the ordinary courts for review. In 2001, for example: It was estimated that there was an increase in the number of of the cases forwarded to the appeal in the main proceedings. In relation to that, I expect it to be a minor mistake. So one last question -- I'm not going to give the representative too many: when it comes to open adoption, there's a disagreement in the committee. We in the Christian People's Party and the Right have said that we are skeptical about introducing a 'light' version of open adoption, while the Workers' Party and SV have gone in to assess this with open adoption. We want to follow this closely, but we're skeptical about making an open adoption arrangement, because it'll weaken the adoption institute. Can the Progress Party in the debate say a little about what you think about such a matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1292	To take the last one first, when it comes to open adoption, we've clearly signaled what we mean. We're basically completely opposed to open adoption. With regard to the representative Eriksen's view that we want to set up local authorities, it is completely wrong. We want every child protection issue, every issue of coercion, things that go in the county, to go to the ordinary judiciary. What these members have become is a special court consisting of a couple of political nominees, a couple of experts and a judge. We do not want this. We want the matter to be dealt with in full in the ordinary jurisdiction. In the case of local samples, we say that they should have the right to vote for the students, because we don't become white subjects now either. It is to make local politicians responsible, so that they actually know what is happening, and also give them the opportunity to influence the work of child-restraint workers. That is why we want to have policy selections that should have the right to set up, in order to be sure that the matter is in fact sufficiently clarified, namely that both parties have been heard even when the case comes from a municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1301	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1304	Today we handle the setting of St.meld. No 40 for 2001-2002, on the protection of children and young people. We're going to vote on important guidelines that will mean a lot to the children, to the families and to the carers. Through the adoption of this Communication, the Committee takes important steps towards a more inclusive and caring society for people who need help and guidance in stages of life. The Socialist Left Party has been fighting for many years for children's and young people's lives, rights and everyday lives to be on the agenda. I think that the Government and the Committee have jointly taken on a social responsibility for our weakest children and young people, and that delights me. I would like to point out that we see an increase in the number of cases of child protection in municipalities from 2001 to 2002. Child protection reports a lack of resources and a high level of permeability in the case of first line staff. This affects the weakest children we have in our society. It is totally unrealistic, as the communication states, to impose on child protection the responsibilities that drive prevention in a municipality without providing significant resources. Child protection is in much of the country in a deep crisis, and child protection budgets crack in municipalities and counties. The Socialist Left believes that child protection needs more resources for action and personnel in order to have the capacity to put in place important and quality appropriate measures. We will highlight the importance of children being given a legal right to receive child protection services. This is now particularly important, with poor municipal and county economics. The Fring Committee thought in its time that such a right should be introduced. It is sad to note that we did not have the majority in the committee to ensure that children and young people have a legal right to receive child protection services. This means that there is still a risk that poor local economy will be able to control the scope of the measures to be taken and that there will be no national standards for child protection service recipients around the country. The Left Party will stress the importance of interdisciplinary cooperation across sectors in order to ensure prevention for children and young people. This is particularly important, with the poor local economy in the country. It is important that prevention and relief measures are adapted to the individual child and its family and that early intervention against children and families is necessary. Interdisciplinary cooperation in municipalities and counties with regard to children and young people has not worked well enough until today. Various actors have initiated different actions without knowing each other. The obligation of professional secrecy has become a handicap and has become an obstacle to good, preventive work across different agencies and sectors. We have major challenges with regard to the negative developments we see in our children's and youth groups. Violence, sexual abuse, and intoxication are an increasing problem. Children and young people have rights, and the right to organised treatment is necessary in order for vulnerable children to receive the help they need to live a good life. We believe it is appropriate that families turn to one place in the municipality to get help for their children. Crisis-stricken families today experience becoming a caste ball in the system. There are countless examples of children and young people who have gone out and into different places, without having received the help they need. This organisation necessarily provides worse services and it is inappropriate for society. The health station is the local authority that is mainly used by all families with children. It is a low-threshold service, manned by different occupational groups — unlike one municipality to another. Many people visit the health centre during pregnancy, when they go to maternity control, and it's in the health wards that the families bring their children right after birth. This is where the prevention work for children and families is taking place to a large extent today. If you look at our neighboring country, it's family centers you're now betting on to a great extent. We believe it is appropriate that the health centre has the coordinating responsibility for the prevention of children and young people, and I am not talking about the prevention work under the Child Protection Act. The various professional bodies should be linked to the health centre as a preventative low-threshold service for children and young people. There are several examples, including from Norway, that this works well. It is a proposal for a cooperation body for local services set up by the Committee for Ot.prp. No 9 for 2002-2003, and for which there is a majority. Representatives from the local health centre should also be present here. The health center for young people works very well in many places in the country. It is sought by many and is a lowthreshold service that young people need. Several studies have been carried out to show that children and young people have confidence in both the school health services and the health centre for young people. The Socialist Left is promoting a proposal at the Innst. S. No 121 that such an offer should be required by law, either by municipal or intermunicipal provision to young people. I'm sorry we didn't get the majority in the committee with us to secure this very important arena in terms of prevention work for children and young people. I would like to stress the role of the family and the importance of preventive action in strengthening parenthood. This is more important than before, because we now have a society where you often only have your own family as a network. Nabokona is not as accessible as before. PMT and MST teams must be an offer to all children and families who need it, a central measure to prevent the development of serious behavioural problems. I would like to point out that some teams drew psychiatry products when we got a health company. This has resulted in a worse offer and no escalating as planned. It is natural that responsibility for further development lies with the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, because these are child protection measures. Departments need to cooperate to continue and further develop these methods, which have proved to work well for many. The SV has submitted a proposal to ensure the development of these teams in all counties, to continue where they are already planned, and to provide such an offer. I find that we are alone in securing this measure. It is totally unrealistic to believe that there will be no greater need for takeovers in the future; this because we have an increasing number of child protection messages, and an increasing number of those messages are related to parents ’ addiction. I believe that parents who abuse alcohol should not care for children. Cross-ministerial cooperation is necessary to facilitate the growth conditions of children and young people. The fact that we don't have enough treatment places for adults in the area of psychiatry and alcohol, gives children poorer growing-up conditions and prevents children from growing up in their families. Children are waiting longer for psychiatric treatment than adults, and there are few institutions for drug treatment for adolescents under 18 years of age. I am therefore very pleased that there was a majority in favour of ensuring that children and young people with child protection measures should have a legal right to treatment for drug use and to psychiatric treatment. That is absolutely necessary! Socialist Left Party has long worked to stress that institutional and foster homes used when care needs to be taken over are qualitatively good. When the public intervenes with regard to children and their parents, taking care of them, it must be absolutely certain that this is in the best interests of the child and that the offer meets quality and professional objectives. Regulations, authorisation schemes and better supervision of child protection institutions are necessary. Better supervision of municipal child protection is also necessary. I am pleased that the Ministry is tabling an amendment to the Children's Protection Act, based on regulations on quality requirements for child protection institutions and a specific authorisation system for private and municipal institutions. Increased resources must be allocated to the county in order to provide for the supervisory function of child protection, as proposed by SV both in the budget of the year and in the budget for 2002. Nearly daily through the mass media, we get insights into the everyday lives of some children and young people — a everyday life of gross sexual abuse and long-term abuse. We need to increase the competence and quality of the treatment of sexually abused children. There are large numbers of darkness, and countless children are failed by adults who cannot or will not see. It is absolutely necessary to use resources in kindergartens, in schools, in child protection, in health centres, in health services and in psychiatry. It is therefore with great satisfaction that SV received a majority in the Committee to ask the Government to provide an investigation into the situation of sexually abused children and their families in Norway, with a particular focus on case-law, treatment provision, follow-up and competence. Finally, in the case of children’s right to information and to express their opinions, the age limit shall be reduced from 12 to 7 years. SV agrees with the Children’s Ombudsman that a child’s right to be heard shall apply from birth. I'm taking up our suggestions here. Subsidized, we shall vote in favour of the Labour Party's proposal, No. 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1342	The representative of May Hansen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1347	The Socialist Left claims itself to be a party engaged in strengthening local democracy. In the SV election manifesto, it is called among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. ‘SV will free the community – give real influence to you and the politicians you choose as your representatives.’ SV has repeatedly proved that they don't mean anything with these beautiful words. Not least in their comments on this big message, they show a very small degree of trust in their party's elected representatives in counties and municipalities. SV believes that the party’s local politicians have a small overview and take little responsibility for child protection. In my case, I would have been very careful to express such a general distrust of all the competent local elected representatives who represent the Right in local government and county councils around the country, but I can agree that it may look as if any of the political commitment to child protection has gone away. It's also another thing that's remarkable. SV is so concerned with local democratic influence that they will oblige municipalities to set up child protection coordination committees. In this context, SV overlooks the fact that all municipalities have the full opportunity to choose a supervisory committee under the Child Protection Act, and that 130 of our municipalities have already done so. Time and again we see that SV is promoting proposals, as they also do in connection with this big message, which leads to new bindings for municipalities. A central question therefore becomes whether SV’s beautiful words about freedom and autonomy for municipalities are just talking. At least it works this way when they really provide the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1364	That is quite the opposite. We have great faith in the politicians in the municipalities. But if the representative of Afghan Rafiq had been present at the hearings, she would have heard that it came out there: there is no commitment in terms of children and young people in the municipalities. After you cut out the child protection committees, it's been dabbing. Children and young people are down priorities. Another thing that's pretty bad is the healthcare companies we've got now, where there's no political transparency at all, where politicians don't know what's going on, and where we don't have the power to influence. Politically elected representatives at all levels maintain democracy and maintain the individual – and we are very alarmed at what is happening in businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1371	I have experienced the Socialist Left Party as a party that is often associated with the Christian People's Party to get good results for people who need it, more than being a party that raises the flag to the top and is to have honor and fame for proposals. The reason why I start with this introduction is proposal No. 14 from the Socialist Left Party. It is proposed that MST teams be expanded in all counties and that it be continued and stepped up as planned in the counties where such an offer was made in 2002. This is to turn open doors. I recommend that the representative forward this proposal. It's going to be a signal that's terribly negative if this goes down. The reason I say that is that the message is ready for this, a letter from the Swedish Government Council, Davøy, which is attached to the cancellation, confirms this, and I feel this is like opening the doors. I wish we could concentrate on getting things done in areas that still remain. And then I can't avoid commenting on proposal no. 15th Now the Socialist Left Party is going to introduce supervision even after adoption. It will be a completely new and radical principle to introduce. We already have supervision of foster homes today, so the proposal can only be seen in the context of adoption. This, of course, is for those who are under the care of the child. However, the adoption process is as serious in relation to children under child protection measures as children in general. It would be a weakening of the entire adoption institute if we were to start supervising families.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1380	Proposal No. Of course, 14 are on the table to reinforce what is in the message. It is clear that a proposal adopted at this stage is quite different from a majority in the position. I understand that it is problematic to vote against it, when there is actually a majority for such a team in all states. As regards post-adoption supervision, we believe that this should apply to children in cases where there is a take-over of care under the Child Protection Act. We believe that these children are entitled to a certain amount of legal protection until they are 18 years old. Often they also need measures through growth, because they often have a background that makes it necessary. That is why we believe, and we have heard that from various professional bodies, that this is important and correct, and that is why we are promoting this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1387	I absolutely agree that a decision is stronger than a majority comment, but that is not the case. This is a matter that the Government says in the message that it will implement, and the Council of State confirms it in a letter. I think it is stronger than both majority comments and decisions. We can only join the message, and then this will happen, instead of making suggestions on this. I recommend that the representative consider once again whether it is possible to submit this proposal, so that it can be presented as a proposal and be sent unanimously. I would like to ask the representative to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1394	The proposal has been promoted on the basis of a response from the Ministry. It is not that this has continued in the states where it has been started to the same extent as the escalation plan has said. In fact, it is the county that has to pay out of its own funds to carry this forward. These psychiatry agents have followed the health care companies, so this is just a clarification that this needs to be put in place. There has to be cooperation across departments, cooperation between psychiatry and child protection, but it is the Ministry of Children and Family that will be responsible for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1399	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1402	St. Report. No 40 for 2001–02, on the protection of children and young people, is a major and comprehensive communication dealing with the organisation and measures to ensure that all children and young people grow up in a dignified way. It is about preventing, as far as possible, the need for measures from the protection of children and young people and, where necessary, about proper timely assistance. Essentially, this is a good message that will further develop and improve child protection work around our country. The main elements of the plan are the family and the community, the biological principle, preventive work, the legitimacy of child protection, cross-border cooperation, and the best for the child as an overall basic value. This has provided a good basis for Storting’s treatment of the notification. It is also important that a unanimous committee broadly supports the Befring Committee's position with a comprehensive renewal of child protection, with a greater emphasis on prevention, voluntary relief and early intervention for children and families. There is also a consensus that child protection needs to cooperate more and more with other agencies and services, the legitimacy of the population needs to be improved, and political awareness and commitment needs to be strengthened. The Committee also sees the need for high-skilled child protection in various forms of preventive family work. However, although one agrees on most of the objectives, in cross-policy forums there will always be different priorities, instruments and ‘doses’. At a time when the queues of children and young people in childhood and youth psychiatry are increasing, where early-criminals are getting younger, the problems among young people are increasing, the number of children with major behavioural problems is increasing and the level of parental failure is being reported, resource access to interventions and child protection personnel needs to be increased and adapted to the challenges and sufficient resources need to be available in kindergarten, school and SFO. Voluntary organisations need to be able to contribute even better to the further development of the child and youth communities in individual communities. The opposition parties Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party point this out in their comments. The Government Parties and the Advance Party must follow up if they intend to implement what is actually said in this Communication. The Central Party considers as the majority that there is no need to legislate for the provision of child protection services. Child protection is an obligation to provide vulnerable children and young people with the assistance they need. The most important thing is that children and young people who need help under the law get it in time. There is a strong consensus that all municipal agencies and institutions have a separate responsibility for developing good growth conditions and preventing children from having problems. However, this work needs to be coordinated better than at present, and responsibility for ensuring coordinated and effective action for vulnerable children and young people needs to be placed in one place in each municipality. Equally important is the fact that individual families can go to one place in the municipality to get help for their children and their families. Local authorities vary widely in size and organisation, and it is therefore important that each municipality chooses solutions tailored to local circumstances. It is therefore right that municipalities be left free to organise this work as they deem it appropriate in terms of resources, experience and culture of cooperation. The central party believes that the majority goes too far in their detailed management when they say that there is a lot of talk about child protection being able to do this work. If we first point to an agency to give the municipalities advice on organisation, it's more nearby for the Center Party to point to the health station. In most municipalities, there are probably families with children who first meet and want to meet, the municipal service. The health centre for young people also works well in many places in the country and should be an offer to all children and young people through municipal and intermunicipal arrangements. The parenting role is demanding, the challenges are different than when today's parents themselves were young, and the natural networks are often gone. That is why, in the Central Party, we believe that support for our proposal on parental support courses and group discussions and for the proposal for an open door test system was a correct and important decision by the Committee. In the courses and conversations, professional advice and opportunities may be given to conversations with other parents in the same situation. The Open Door project is intended to capture children with problems while the problems are still small. Students should be able to contact an adult with professional skills throughout the school day and present their problem at the moment of the problem. Such low-threshold services must be provided where young people have a natural access point. The centre party has previously, together with SV and with partial support from the Progress Party, through Document No. Eight proposals for a guarantee of treatment for psychiatric treatment within six weeks for children and young people under the age of 18 and a guarantee of treatment for young and new drug users. That is why it is with great satisfaction that we are taking part in a majority through this debate which: ‘on the part of the Government, it proposes that children and young people with child protection measures should be legally entitled to treatment for drugs and psychiatry’. In a comprehensive child protection policy, the Centre is also convinced that the proposal we are promoting, together with the SV, on the authorisation system of asylum recipients for single minor asylum seekers, and together with the SV and the Progress Party on the amendment of the Child Protection Act to ensure that minor asylum seekers, in line with single Norwegian children, are taken care of by child protection, are important and proper measures. That is why, of course, we will give our subsidiary support to the Labour Party's proposals in these areas. The Labour Party does not want to move forward so quickly, but they have the same objective with their proposals. The centre party is committed to increasing the political sense of responsibility in relation to child protection. This is not possible without strengthening popular governance and influence over child protection. Child protection depends on politicians with good knowledge and insight into the tasks of child protection. Therefore, the majority's comments on this point are crucial in order to fulfil the intentions of which there is full agreement. It is not possible to say everything you have on your heart in five minutes in such a big and important matter. But I will end, as I started, by saying that St.meld. No 40 provides the basis for improved child protection in Norway, and I am clear enough to claim that the Centre Party has contributed to important clarifications and improvements through treatment in Stortinget. Now it remains to implement the changes and measures and make the necessary resources available.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1426	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1429	As the representative Heggem had in mind, the Central Party supports a proposal on legal rights for all on child protection measures for the treatment of drug and psychiatry. Firstly, it is important to stress that this is really a matter that belongs to the social committee. It is also important to stress that this proposal concerns the right of all children in child protection measures to receive legal protection for drug and psychiatric treatment. It sounds beautiful. But does not the Central Party see that the proposal violates the individual right of each person to medical treatment? The individual right is independent of age and all other factors. And to put it a little bit on the head: does the Center Party think that a 17-year-old with a slight alcohol problem should be given priority in front of a 19-year-old with a heavy psychiatric diagnosis? I can't believe the Center Party really means it. What's even worse is that the Center Party is not able to see the consequences that such a decision can lead to. Firstly, this will lead to pressure on the measures. If a child protection measure is what is needed to speed up treatment, it is clear that everyone with problems will want to take action. Is it for the protection of children to use the resources? Is it true that this is done, and what kind of signals does the Center Party give to the families? I simply have to say that I am disappointed that the centre party is not able to see the consequences of the apparently good proposals from SV, which they are still looking at.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1440	I'm sorry if it's perceived as the Senter party is throwing itself on SV's proposal. If you have read carefully our comments in relation to St. gemeld. No 40, you'd have seen that's not the case. When it comes to the question that was addressed to us here, it's the weakest people in our society that this concerns. It actually applies to children who are under child protection measures. The statistics show that young people are waiting longer in place and that there are few places in the institution. So it's with a good conscience that I choose to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1447	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1451	The Government’s communication on child protection and youth protection is a good one. The left is also pleased with the work done in the Committee, and we are pleased that a majority is behind the main features of the Government's communication. A good childhood must be marked by security, as much in the form of human proximity as liberal material frameworks. Children shall be protected against physical and mental abuse and against a health-threatening reproductive environment. The left has worked to ensure that the Children’s Convention is incorporated into Norwegian law. Children must have the right to speak before important decisions are taken concerning them and their views must be given great importance. The bonds between children and parents are fundamental, and when the parent institution cannot fulfil its tasks towards the child, society must first seek to give parents and the environment a better opportunity to solve the problems. Only when this possibility is sufficiently tested must it be appropriate to separate the child from his or her parents. Left is pleased that the Government has taken this into account in the message. At the same time, there will be cases where it is best for the child to have a new home. Often it will be difficult to deal with child protection issues in a small local environment. A person must have a stronger coordination of different disciplines where he/she is working with disadvantaged children and their parents. This requires coordination of legislation also at ministerial level. The left is pleased that the Government sees that closer regional cooperation in the area of child protection should therefore be established and that prevention should be strengthened. The Left is also pleased that the Government is aware that the general multicultural competence in the field of child protection should be strengthened. This includes, among other things: have been a problem in Oslo. It is important that this competence is integrated and used in practice. Finally, I would like to express my support for the work that the Government has put in place to transpose the Children's Convention into Norwegian law. The left looks forward to promoting an odelstningsproposition on this in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1464	The working party has as one of its main objectives the same right to a good and meaningful life for everyone. Children are particularly vulnerable to adverse environmental impacts. Child protection is a central player to ensure that vulnerable children are well-growthed. In Norway, one of the richest countries in the world, thousands of children live in families in poverty. An increasing number of children of poor parents become child-restraint children, says a new study. We have a responsibility as politicians to take growth measures that give these children a better situation. This is a central element in the cash support resistance of the Workers' Party. There are these "grey zone children" I want to focus on. It is important that child protection is provided with a financial framework to ensure that early action can be taken to help children who have difficulties at home. Such a situation is today, with a pressurised local economy, often the financial framework of the individual child protection office is no more than a response when the crisis is a fact. This is a situation that is totally unsustainable and that affects the children. The framework for the protection of children must be ensured so that they can offer the assistance they need to children in the process of falling outside. It is necessary to adapt the measures to the individual situation of the child. The safety of access to child protection is essential in order to have a positive impact on the child’s situation. Therefore, the Workers' Party has in the treatment of St.meld. No 40 focused on developing the skills of child-restraint workers. We have many children today who have an unsustainable growth situation at home. This could be done, for example, by: are due to parents with drug problems or due to abuse. For these children, the option is a place outside the home. Here, foster home is a very central tool. About 80 pst. by those who are away from home, they end up in foster homes. It is absolutely essential that the working conditions of foster parents are thoroughly reviewed if we are to be able to recruit foster parents in the future. Furthermore, it is important that guidance on foster homes be strengthened. Several of the children placed in foster homes have experienced long-term heavy stress and need special follow-up. It is therefore important that foster parents be helped to address the challenges involved. The Workers' Party has proposed that the follow-up of foster homes should take place in cooperation between municipal child protection and the state regions. The supervisor shall monitor the child’s situation in the foster home. It is essential that the foster children feel confidence in the supervisor so that they can identify any problems. With regard to those children and young people who are struggling with problems in the field of drugs and psychiatry, we in the Workers' Party are pleased that the Committee has moved in to give them a legal right to treatment. But we have another category of children that the Workers' Party believes need help from child protection, and it is the minor asylum seekers who come to Norway. For these children, there are few resource people, few figures and often small networks. Therefore, the Workers' Party asks the Government to look closely at these children and their situation. In particular, we ask the Government to investigate the Child Protection Act in order to ensure that minor asylum seekers are protected by child protection upon arrival in Norway. Maybe we can avoid these kids disappearing from the receptions and then living on the street as prostitutes. This is unworthy of the children, but it is as unworthy of us as a prosperous nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1490	For the first time in almost 20 years, the Stortinget has an opportunity to discuss child protection in Norway across its professional and social spectrum. We should use this opportunity to discuss the big lines, the most important issues, the boldest visions. There are many problems and individual challenges to address in this field. We also have to do that, and we do that on an uninterrupted basis. It's just now that we have a golden opportunity for a free and complete discussion about main perspectives and decisive action. In the message we have presented some 70 measures. It was not that difficult, the list could easily be made longer. The most important thing is to identify the best professional main perspectives, the best organisational models and the best political approaches. We have tried to light the child protection with both the dipped-beam and the main-beam. In everyday life we all run the most with passing lights. Through the message I also invite to turn on the main lights and drive into the future child protection landscape. On the way there is a lot that we have to look at, so the hand must always be close to the dim switch. Employees in child protection have in common with their users that they have a vulnerable position in society. I have great respect for the job done in the field of child protection, among other things. the assistance provided to vulnerable children and their families. Nevertheless, I am convinced that today we are only at the beginning of a process of increasing both quality and intensity in terms of early prevention for vulnerable families. It also applies to the foster families. Helping measures are too often inserted too late to have the desired effect. Although such recognition is already present among professionals, further changes in attitudes and methodological upgrades are required both in the area of child protection and in the services with which child protection cooperates. In my view, family and community-based methods must be used to a much greater extent than they are today. Multiple functional families and minor care failures are the overall objective. In the long term, this rotation of resource use could also lead to economic savings in terms of less need for expensive measures that may not work either. The foster homes are the most widely used measure in child protection when children are placed outside their own home. In the Communication, we are committed to continuing to strengthen the training and guidance of foster parents. Follow-up of foster homes is an important part of child protection technical assistance to vulnerable children and families. Prevention has become increasingly central both in the field of child protection and in other services. Many municipalities have also made significant efforts to strengthen cross-border cooperation and cooperation between related services in the municipality. In my view, it is very important that this work continues and develops further in the municipalities. Despite the focus on the cooperation between agencies and services, it is rare for an agency or service to have a primary responsibility for coordinating the efforts of vulnerable children and young people in municipalities. I think this is unfortunate. In the future, we should ensure such a function, primarily in order to be able to make a coordinated and good effort for vulnerable children and young people. Such a coordinating body shall also provide for good communication between services so that the appropriate actions are put in place in time. In the message, we suggest that child protection should be able to be upgraded to take on this task, without saying that it is the only solution. Municipal child protection with such a coordinator and driver role will necessarily also have to be an existing and visible protection of children. At the same time, by placing this responsibility on the protection of children, prevention could be promoted as an area of activity in the municipalities. We're talking about the exposed children. It's true that the representative, Afshan Rafiq, said that child protection can never be a direct popular service to some people. On the other hand, it is crucial for the legitimacy of child protection to respect the tasks and services that it is set to perform. In order to achieve such a status, it is important that child protection opens and communicates better than today. In my view, child protection, which has the necessary competence in preventive family work, and in addition, is as open as possible to its choices and priorities, will also retain its legitimacy when coercive action is necessary. A role as a central coordinator in the municipality of the children affected could likewise have a positive impact on legitimacy. The protection of children and the growing environment of children and young people should be well-suited to engage politicians. Still, I think the commitment is too low. I don't think elected representatives should be involved in the treatment of individual cases, as it was in the past, but they should be able to make real, sensible choices in the work of the municipal budgets. It is therefore important to provide information on the availability of child protection and on the functioning of child protection. Municipal councils should at least once per year. a report on the situation in the field of child protection, with proposals for preventive measures, is presented for years. I think this is independent of the budget debate in the local government. One of the most important challenges for the protection of children in tomorrow's world is to strengthen skills so that it becomes a monster. When the state assumes the responsibilities of the county council today in child protection, I will make a strong commitment that the state will become a central resource of competence for the municipalities. In this perspective, administrative reform is not the most important thing for the state to take over tasks, but for us to assist municipalities in increasing the competence of municipal child protection. The overall objective is to achieve the greatest possible success while children live at home in their own families or in foster homes. To achieve this, we rely on evaluation and research. For example, we need to know as much as possible what measures are effective for which children and under what conditions. The measures must be as knowledge-based as possible. With regard to serious behavioural problems, in recent years we have implemented a very successful implementation of two new family-based methods that have demonstrated good effectiveness. I'm talking about PMT and MST. For the time being, this competence exists only in the counties. In the future, the objective is to maximise the transfer of competences in PMT — and similar approaches — to municipal child protection and other institutions that meet with children and young people, for example. the school and the PP service. Such dissemination to the first-line service of knowledge of how to deal with provocative children is already under planning. This will be continued in cooperation between the departments concerned and the newly created ‘Centre for the Study of Behavioural Problems and Innovative Practices’ at the University of Oslo, as also stated in the Communication. With the main lights on, I imagine a child protection where the different services and levels of government play on the same team to help vulnerable children and their families. This means, among other things: effective treatment and specialist measures are widely deployed as reinforcement of and in cooperation with municipal services, and not after the assistance measures when it may be too late. I imagine many engaged politicians as proponents and janitors in this picture, both in Stortinget and in the local government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1518	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1521	The Children’s Ombudsman reports today that many children are being abused without the child protection report to the police. According to the Children's Ombudsman, the police in Stockholm receive more than a hundred times more reports of child abuse than the Oslo police get. In fact, it is not because child protection is better in Sweden than in Norway. In the field of child protection and child law changes, the Labour Party has been involved in various public bodies, such as: police and child protection, and that they need to cooperate more closely across the Union. It is important that professional secrecy does not prevent good cooperation between public authorities. The aim is coordination, targeting and quality in the prevention of child and family protection, in other words, the best of the child. Abuse of children is never the best of the child. Does the State Council share the concern of the Labour Party that many children are subjected to serious abuse without this being reported to the police? Does the State Council support the proposals of the Labour Party and the Committee for closer cooperation between various public bodies for the benefit of the children? And then I'm actually asking, what else will the Council of State do to ensure that it is reported to the police about children who are being abused? Now we in Norway have to stop believing that this is a private matter. Children shall not suffer in any case. It is actually over with the days when you disciplined the one you loved!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1530	I have long said that family violence, whether against children or against women, is not a private matter. It is a major societal problem and must be addressed accordingly. Of course, when it comes to gross violence against children and the statements we have in the media today about this, it should be reported to the police. To me, it's a matter of course. In the message, we say a part about violence against children, both in chapter 6.1.4 and in chapter 6.1.5. We point out there that there are very large numbers of darkness associated with physical child abuse. Unfortunately, physical child abuse is often not reported either to the police or, for that matter, to child protection. There we also have a big challenge. It is true that child protection is also dependent on raising concerns if they are to intervene in a family in which violence against the children is perpetrated. Child protection must always have the best interests of the child in mind, including in relation to the issue of notification in such cases. Then to the second part of the post of the representative Fallen. I share the representative's views on transparency and greater cooperation. The Child Protection Communication also contains a number of measures in relation to it. Cross-border cooperation needs to be much better. We need to have greater transparency. The obligation of professional secrecy shall not prevent the protection of children or any other person from doing what is best for the children. We are well in the process of interdisciplinary cooperation in different municipalities. In fact, we also have a number of good examples from our municipalities of how cooperation teams have been set up for the benefit of each child, often with individual children in focus, where individual plans are made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1543	First, I would like to say that the Child Protection message adds up to changing some of the points of the Befring committee that were less good. That's very good. It's good with all the changes that are of the good for the particularly vulnerable children. The councils talked about improving the legitimacy of child protection by increasing transparency. As long as only one of the children who are under public care suffers, the legitimacy of child protection will have major problems. And as long as we can read about one child protection issue in the media, the trust in child protection will be poor. I intend to ask the Council of State how she can take the necessary steps so that the obligation of professional secrecy does not prevent child protection from working more openly. Something other than a coordination of prevention I cannot see is part of this message. There's nothing revolutionary, there's nothing that would give child protection greater acceptance in society than today. I simply ask: how has the Council of State intended to take the necessary action, so that the general view of child protection is different from what it is?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1552	I am very pleased with the positive introductory remarks by the representative Woldseth. I am also pleased with the large number of proposals that we have made, not to say all the most important proposals, in the communication. As for the legitimacy of child protection, I think, in addition to what I said in my previous post, that very many people don't know child protection well enough today. We need a much greater transparency about both what's happening in child protection and how the individual, difficult issues are solved. That is why we have also said that we want Law Data to be able to publish several child protection issues online. The public — the individual citizen in this country — can then go in and see how child protection matters are handled in Norway today, if they are interested in it. I think it's important. I also think greater transparency and feedback from child protection are important. I have said many times that child protection should give feedback to all those who come with concerns, that they are taking the matter. Maybe they're not going to say what they're doing in every context, because it's not everyone who has a duty of confidentiality in our country, but to give feedback that they're taking the case, I think it's important. When it comes to media focus in a number of cases, I just have to say that for me, the media issues themselves are not an image of how child protection works in Norway today. There's so much wrong information in the singles in the media, it's so easy to look up. I want a child protection measure that has been done in the past, that is to say, to help make child protection more secure by going out to the media when it comes to child protection and saying how to actually work – not in the individual case, but simply in the case of treatment. After all, it is produced in the media as if some other child-restraint worker in a municipality is the one who takes care of a child. It's not like that today, and it shouldn't be like that either.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1566	I fully agree with the Council that we have a high-skilled child protection system, which does a very good job based on the scarce resources available around the municipalities. That being said, I would say that we had a meeting with the County Council in Eastfold here three weeks ago, and then we got some rather worrying messages: overall, an increase in the number of children in contact with the Child Welfare Service, an increase in the number of messages, an increase in the number of cases committed, an increase in the decision on relief measures, an increase in the number of emergency positions, an increase in the number of children in relation to the placement according to behavior paragraphs, approximately. 12 pst. by children placed in foster homes did not have supervisors, deadlines, increases in the number of deadlines and increases in investigation cases that extend in time between three and six months. In 52 cases the six-month deadline was exceeded. There has been an increase in cases where surveys are drawn against six months, which is to be done only in exceptional cases. No significant increase in crew. Substantial additional resources are required to care for children around this country in relation to the increased problem we have. I want the Council of State to make a concrete proposal on what she wants to do with the lack of resources that makes this affect our very weakest children.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1576	It is true that there has been a large increase in the number of children in the field of child protection in recent years. We've seen an even increase. However, what is very good is that the increase is primarily linked to the relief measures in the field of child protection. We think that is a very positive development. We have had relatively no more takeovers, but an increase in the voluntary relief measures. I hope there's also a picture that people are looking for child protection a little bit easier, and at an earlier time. That's what we're doing in the Child Protection Notice. That being said, we will come back to that matter later today. But it also has to some extent to do with resources. If we are able to take the necessary steps in the field of child protection, namely to get in at a much earlier point in time, home-based family-based measures are much more reasonable in the area of child protection than for example. adoption of care, rather than sending our children or young people to expensive institutions. There's nothing as expensive as that. Finally, I want to praise our municipalities. I want to praise the municipalities, even though we see differences – because we do. There are a lot of municipalities today doing a great job, and they have actually employed a lot more people in child protection jobs without legal support and who have really put child protection on the agenda. In particular, they are creative, and child protection does not limit creativity in relation to the actions that can be taken in relation to children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1585	The time for this morning's meeting is now at hand. However, the President will propose that we continue until this matter is settled. The situation is now that we have two lines left on the state council, we have a five-minute post and two three-minute posts. The President will propose that in any case, we finish the list of speakers so far, and if there's more to three minutes of posts, we're going to break off and continue with three minutes of speeches at the evening meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal – it is deemed to have been adopted. And then we're going to continue with the line chord shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1594	I would like to ask the Council of State a couple of questions that go on well-known themes. Through leadership positions in a number of municipalities in this country, the Centre Party is well aware of the scarce resources of the Child Welfare Service in most municipalities and the difficult priorities that need to be implemented. I am also aware that resources for prevention have been reduced in the last year. This is not primarily due to the wrong priority – no, it is simply due to a lack of access to resources to the municipal sector. Does the Council agree that increased access to both first and second line child protection services is necessary to implement the intentions of the message we are processing today? I also know from personal experience that it is not possible to increase the political sense of responsibility in relation to child protection without strengthening the popular governance and influence over child protection. An annual report is not satisfactory. Does the Council share this view? And does the Council of State see the need to take this inward and follow up the Committee's intention on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1603	I share the representative's view that in some areas of child protection, we will certainly need increased resources in the future. In other areas, of course, I hope – preferably – that we will have fewer child protection cases in the future, and that we will be able to be more at the prevention level. The resources will be linked to the annual government budgets or other budgetary procedures in the Storting. In that case, we have to get back to that. With regard to the elected government, I also said in my introduction that I personally and the Government have no desire to go back to the elected bodies in and separately when individual issues of child protection are dealt with. But I'm very concerned, and I've also said it in the message, that there's too little political awareness of child protection. This applies both in municipalities and in today's counties. An annual notice shall not only be a paper, but it shall also be a notice giving an overview of the situation in each municipality in relation to child protection, preferably with some statistics, so that time can be set aside to debate child protection in a good way. It's happening to a very small extent today, as I know, because you might just get presented with a budget. It is limited in what is then written, and it is also limited in what debate is held in local councils on child protection. Of course, the Council of State and the Government should follow up on any proposals that have a majority in the Grand Duchy. It's a matter of course. In that case, we'll come back with how we do it later. I don't fully understand what gets the majority, because there are subsidiary proposals here as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1614	I would like to pass on some of the line from the representative of May Hansen to the representative of Rafiq to the Council of State. More and more children and young people are coming to Norway to seek asylum. In the first nine months last year, 65 of these children disappeared. The children are not even wanted, and no one knows where they are. When the case ends as a police matter, good coordination between child protection and the police is important. The likelihood of these children living as prostitutes is great. These children probably also have many traumatic experiences with them from where they come from. The Committee is aware that some measures are being taken by the Government against these children, especially in relation to the organisation of the war. The Council of State itself states in the Communication that the role of child protection services in the work of single minors needs to be strengthened and that child protection assessments need to be made. Why not, then, support the Workers' Party's proposal to amend the Child Protection Act at least so that minor asylum seekers under the age of 18 are protected by child protection on arrival in Norway on the same basis as single Norwegian children?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1623	All children in need of it following child protection messages are entitled to child protection. The same applies to all children, whether they are minor asylum seekers or Norwegian children. However, as the representative of Afghan Rafiq also said in his statement, it is not certain that all children coming here need child protection measures. The reasons why government parties may not directly support that proposal are more numerous. But at least what I can say is that we are doing very well in the government with some measures in the case of minor asylum seekers. UDI has also developed and implemented entirely new procedures in relation to children who disappear from reception. These procedures describe to the police the responsibilities of the recipient, the responsibilities of child protection, the responsibilities of the claim, etc. The child protection guard and out-of-office contacts shall be informed that lone minors have disappeared from reception and it is up to the police to investigate when these children disappear, in the same way as they are to investigate when Norwegian children disappear. So, there are already new routines -- I'm glad to be able to say that. I would like to have five minutes, President, but I guess I won't, to say what we've done, and what we're doing, in terms of alternative reception and residence models for minor asylum seekers. It has undergone significant development and improvement in 2002 both in terms of quality and competence. We have established two new fairly large arrivals for lone minors. Since time doesn't allow any more, I would like to be allowed to take a cup of coffee with the representative on a two-handed basis, so the representative can know a little more about the measures we have taken, which are actually very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1632	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1635	The last few weeks have shown that many families live with large conflicts that in some cases end in killing. These are often families who have been through long-standing crises, often characterized by jealousy and control. There's every reason to believe that this is just the top of an iceberg. Today, violence against women and children poses a formidable problem that happens to thousands of families, often practiced by men who are unable to control the sense of renunciation and relief, and who, through their detachment, direct their aggression against women and children. It is to hope that these matters that we have been made aware of through major headlines in the newspapers in the last weeks, can also make us think in the long term. Therefore, this matter is more about it than to retract the end piece into the AG3 rifle. It is imperative that we now put a long-term perspective on the work aimed at this problem in society. In the view of the Workers' Party, a state takeover of County Child Protection and Family Protection will give the Storting the opportunity to give this theme the attention it needs. Many families live in a deep secret when it comes to power for which men cast out their partners and children. Some of the most important things we can do in this context are to create an accessible supply for this group by establishing a nationwide offer for men with power and aggression problems, women who have been exposed to power and children who have grown up in families with power. As part of the takeover by the State, special emphasis should therefore be placed on families where the choice exists. The knowledge of this difficult topic is incomplete at all levels of healthcare, and many deferred families today do not know where to turn. Shame and fear are great, and too many families will, therefore, continue and, unfortunately, in some cases lead to as dramatic events as they are read about in the newspapers. Meanwhile, many people are hurting, not least the children. They are helpless witnesses to the power that they day by day appear to be ahead of their eyes – saving children, angry and shameful adults, who today have a limited helper at their disposal. We know that these families need an auxiliaries that are easily accessible and have a high level of professional expertise in the field of family choices. I am aware that the Government's Women's Election Committee, which is due to be held in September of this year, has as one of the tasks of its mandate to make proposals for the organisation of family election work. However, this does not have to prevent us from even now talking about the organisation of family election work in Norway. The Labour Party wants to give a political signal that the state takes this work so seriously that a state anchoring of this work is both desirable and necessary. By linking this work to the model we are discussing today, we will ensure easy access and a close connection with children and young people's breeding conditions. In our opinion, family election work should not be tied up against the psychiatric health services, i.e. the state health services. This, in our opinion, will mean an infirmary and more difficult access for families with violence problems. Health centres should be strengthened to give them the real opportunity to work prevention among children and young people. In this way, the protection of children will be given a clearer task and not a burden today between prevention and the statutory tasks they currently have under the Child Protection Act. Such a strengthening must be characterised by a multidisciplinary approach and strengthened by e.g.: family advisors, psychologists, educational staff and child protection educators. In this way, health centres will be able to face serious problems in the prep, including family choice, as mentioned earlier in my article.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1656	There are now three more speakers for three minutes. As we know, it is limited how long we can last beyond the regulatory time of the morning meeting – people have assignments, agreements, etc. outside this house too. But we try, and we'll see if those who are now coming later are provoking new three-minute posts – that's not unusual at all. In that case, we stop and take the rest of this matter at the evening meeting. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1661	I can't promise I won't provoke anyone. This has been a debate that has been characterised by the fact that some representatives cannot have much experience in practical child protection matters. At least there is something I feel after sitting on the back bench and followed a little. One of my first political positions was as a member of a Municipal Child Protection Service in 1988. It was a strong experience for a young politician who was not until then in the 20s. I got first-hand experiences of sites in society that I had not otherwise had. Much has probably happened since 1988, but there is still much to be known when you see what we as members of the family committee receive daily by post – many tragic fates. Of course, there is a lot of good work in child protection in Norway. The problem is that some mistakes are also made — and some serious mistakes, with great consequences for both children and adults. We therefore believe in the Progress Party that child protection must be kept in tighter clothes and that quality control must be improved. We also have some clear and concrete proposals that we think can help to achieve this. One of them is the liquidation of the county councils and the transfer to the ordinary judiciary, duly referred to by the representative Woldseth earlier today. We have also pointed out that we need to have a greater involvement of local politicians and get to a popular security valve in order to carry out quality control. This isn't about any minor subjects, as the Christian People's Party would have it to, but an extra quality control and an engagement that is greater than what you per. Today there are local elected representatives. We also want a state supervision that can control and steer development better than what you are doing now, and not like the state per. Today it does. Because we see that there have been some scandals and sad fates that show that today's system has not worked as well as it should. We're also a little skeptical about the connection between the county as a control body and the fact that the county picks out these districts. We are convinced that child protection is too important for us to allow large margin of error, and that is why we are making these proposals. In the end, I would like to point out that I think family ties are so important that we always have to try to get solutions that in a positive way involve the biological family, through grandparents, uncles and aunts, if this is possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1676	I didn't intend to take any three-minute posts, but I was so incredibly provoked by the representative of Afghan Rafiq's comment on this with children under child protection measures, and their need for drug and psychiatry services. Either it's an incredible arrogance, or there's very little knowledge about what's happening, when you talk about a 17-year-old who's more animated, who's going to go ahead of others in terms of drug treatment. In my hometown, a 12-year-old died of an overdose of heroin. We have parents who come crying to child protection and ask for help because they no longer have control of their exuberant pod or daughter. Children who have been sexually abused have major traumas and often feel guilt for themselves. These are some of the most vulnerable children in Norway. Is it necessary for these to go and wait six months to receive the necessary treatment? A 17-year-old, slightly animated boy, I am absolutely sure that municipal child protection could help to facilitate and find measures for. That's not the one we're talking about. We're talking about the very weakest of the weakest, who are totally helpless, and who if they don't get immediate help, has a ruined life ahead of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1686	I get worried when the Council of State is so positive that more help is being put in place, and that the takeover of care is stable. This isn't right. Statistics now suggest that there is a tendency for care takeover to be implemented too late for many children living under failing care. Procedure and decision-making are often a process between child protection and parents. The auxiliary equipment must not be such that taking care is the last resort after everything else has been tried and failed. I would like to refer to the project ‘Children placed away from home — risk and development’, which substantiates the claim that late intervention and care takeover have serious consequences for children’s development. The study was carried out by NOVA and the Development Centre of Children’s Protection in the West in cooperation with County Child Protection, funded by the Norwegian Research Council. The report is referred to in a short version of Norway’s child protection. Psychologist and researcher Elisabeth Backe-Hansen at the Norwegian Institute for Research on Growth, Welfare and Ageing believes that too much is being invested in voluntary relief measures, and that more children should be located outside the home. She also points out that it is irresponsible to further increase the emphasis on relief measures when it is not known what action is taking and that the measures taken have not been evaluated to a small extent. I would also like to point out that from 1996 to 2000 there has been a decrease in 11 countries with regard to the part of studies leading to action. Eastfold is the lowest. Measures have only been taken in 43 pst. of cases, while in Sogn and Fjordane and Møre and Romesdal measures have been implemented in 63 pst. of the cases. There are big differences. When we also know that Eastfold has the highest proportion of children under child protection measures, 27 per cent. 1 000 children, this is very serious. Eastfold has major problems with alcohol and violence, the county has the lowest level of education in Norway, and it is a very poor municipal and county economy. I would argue that this is related to the low level of child protection resources, and it shows how important it is for children's rights to be put ahead of political priorities. I find it sad that the Council of State has not brought these signals into this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1695	To the representative Karin Woldseth: I don't think we disagree that anyone who needs help both in the field of drugs and psychiatry should get it when they need it. But we believe, unlike the Progress Party, that legal law is not the way to go. First of all, I would like to justify that we are engaged in an individual medically-determined treatment guarantee. It's independent of age and all other factors. But we think it's legislating such a right for all those who are under the age of 18, or who are on child protection measures, are going to be unwise. Firstly, this will lead to a re-prioritisation of the individual right. Secondly, it leads to injustice towards them beyond the age limit or outside measures, but which is more urgent than those covered by the law according to what the Progress Party here is in favour of. Thirdly, it reflects the responsibilities and priorities of the municipality, and fourthly and lastly, it can lead to pressure to address child protection measures as a shortcut to treatment. When the same parties say that these institutional places are a defect, I don't understand how to give everyone an offer by legislating this. Then it must also follow the money, and I hope they can clarify how they intend to implement it. I would like to remind you once again, as the rapporteur also pointed out, that a change in the law on the right to treatment would also be contrary to the patient rights law. We don't think that's appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1700	Karin S. Woldseth has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1703	I never think child protection measures can be a shortcut to treatment. If there are children who are outside and have more drug abuse and need more psychiatric treatment than those in child protection — well, child protection has not done their job. We're talking about measures. We're not talking about caring. We're talking about child protection measures. There's a significant difference. These are the people who live at home and who need a necessary follow-up. I think it's a conceptual confusion. Measures are not the same as care. Measures are the overall overview of child protection issues, and then someone comes to care. Some have domestic interventions, and some have out-of-home measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-11.ana.ud425e1708	There are now several people who have signed up for this matter. It looks like there's balls on, and it's impossible to have a grip on this. Besides, people can get the feeling that they don't get the speaking time they need in such an important case. That is why the President considers it wise now to suspend the meeting and to continue the examination of case No. 7 o'clock. 18th@item: inlistbox No objections have been raised against this.
