ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e28	From the President of Stortinget, Jørgen Kosmo, there is an application for leave from 21 January to 27 January to take part in the 50th anniversary of the India Parliament in New Delhi. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Dag Terje Andersen, is invited to meet during the leave period.3. Day Terje Andersen is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets President Jørgen Kosmo of Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e49	The representative, Jan Simonsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e52	I am delighted to make a private proposal to ask the Government to present to the Stortinget an action plan to ensure better security for police officers, such as the police. shall include proposals for minimum penalties for all types of violence and threats against police officers, and proposals for a substantial increase in the maximum penalty for killing police officers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e57	The representative, Karin S. Woldseth, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e60	On behalf of Ulf Erik Knudsen, Ursula Evje and myself, I would like to propose literature policy, competitive conditions and structure in the book industry, including the repeal of the book industry agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e65	The representative Audun Bjørlo Lighthouse will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e68	On behalf of the representatives of Åslaug Haga, Bjørn Jacobsen and myself, I would like to propose transparency around Norway's positions, and the requirements Norway sends and receives, in the context of the negotiations on the General Agreement on Trade in Services in the WTO.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e73	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e96	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Election City of Answer Haugland State Council Odd Einar DørumState Council Ingerd Schou The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We start with the first main questions, from the representative Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e115	I'll be allowed to ask a question to the Social Minister. We now have a long and intensive debate that goes on increasing electricity prices and how, among other things. our elderly, disabled and minimum pensioners shall be able to cover the extra high bills which are now beginning to fall into the mailboxes. In this connection, representatives from the government parties have also said that you have to take care of your health, here you get to fire what you need, to get heat in the house, and you will get help with the bill. On 10 January, the government came with its answer to the problems these people have experienced. You increase the housing allowance by a one-off payment of NOK 700. The state is charging billions as a result of the increased electricity costs that users receive, and in this respect I will ask the Council of State: does she think that these 700 kroner are sufficient to help those people who have suffered economic hardship as a result of the increased electricity prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e124	The representative Nesvik is, as I understand it, concerned with the elderly, the minimum pensioners, the underprivileged, the ones who especially need help to pay the high electricity prices, and then it's important to say that having enough electricity for heating is a basic need for everyone in Norway, in line with food, drink, clothes. No one should have to freeze because we have high power prices. The government has taken immediate action to remedy this situation, and will also follow developments closely. The representative Nesvik points out that the Government, as an immediate measure, has granted 76 million. kr, which in relation to the first semester will be approx. 700 kroner This goes into the living quarters. But that's not the only measure that the government has announced. Even before Christmas in the 2003 budget, lighting and heating in the housing aid scheme were increased by 450 kroner. So for those who come under the housing scheme, it's going to be NOK 700 plus NOK 450. For those in need of further assistance, the Social Services Act is the safety network each should have, and where it is also possible to have its specific situation assessed. It is about assessing both income, expenditure and wealth, and as such it is about the security network. If this would affect the finances of municipalities, it would be natural to consider it in the context of the revised national budget, where both the total income and expenditure of municipalities will be part of the assessment. However, the Government will follow developments closely in the future, and it will also assess the need for further action.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e133	If we look at the issue of the increased housing allowance itself, it says that this should be a one-off payment, that is. there is nothing here to say that this will only apply to the flow in the first quarter. It is with wonder that I remember the Social Minister's reply. This shows that instead of giving an increased grant to those who really need it today and making sure that they have the economy to cope with it, they are more likely to be brought into the social offices and turned these people into social clients. If one could have gone into the proposals of the Progress Party, such as: VAT reduced and electricity tax reduced, they would have helped these people 700 kroner in the long run. That's not the case with the increase that's now being added up to. With regard to the social services and the payments that will have to be made there, what concrete plans does the Minister for Social Affairs have in this regard to ensure that municipalities are covered by the costs related to increased electricity prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e144	The municipal auxiliaries shall provide both practical assistance and financial assistance to those experiencing problems due to cold and high current prices. The representative of Nesvik also heard that I said that in terms of total municipal income and expenditure, it would have its natural place in the revised national budget. The government has taken immediate action. We're going to evaluate this further, and we're also going to follow developments. It has not been said that what we have now granted is sufficient, but in any case it will be a concrete follow-up. I also do not expect the representative Nesvik to grant money on the basis of forecasts. We actually have to see what it's going to cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e151	There will be follow-up questions – Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e154	The promise now given by many politicians to those who do not dare to turn the heat on, is now important to follow up in a way that is understood and that is honest. When you are told to turn up the power and that we will help them with the bill, it has to be done. Then there's two problems. One is that municipalities do not have the money to pay increased social assistance costs at all, and the other is the social assistance legislation. If you get there with the bill now, you're a pensioner and, for example, a pensioner. have a car – it may be the car that allows you to function in a good way and manage your seas ahead – the code is actually so that you have to sell the car to get help. If the government is thinking of changing something about these rules in the extraordinary situation that has arisen now, so that people get help, and that the promise that has been given, among other things. by the Government, is it being fulfilled?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e161	The legal framework of the Social Services Act is such that it is to be an individual, concrete assessment of both income, expenditure and wealth. It is also clarified in the legislation that the assets and assets necessary for the maintenance of life are to be secured. In addition, it means that social services can consider helping you over your problems by providing loans and by helping you with advice and guidance in relation to power providers, so that you can get a different kind of down payment of your bill. The representative, Andersen, is busy with the legislation. I believe that the legislation so far contains the necessary rules to provide an individual and good assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e169	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e172	The centre party, together with SV, has proposed a two-price system on the current, which will imply that a regular household can have a price different from today's, and that the consumption that goes beyond a certain minimum will be at a higher price. I expect the Government to consider that proposal carefully. Then I have to say that it is too easy for both the Minister of Energy, Jon Lilletun and the Minister of Social Affairs to show people to the Social Office, now that one social head after another is standing up and telling them that there is no agreement between what the Minister of Social Affairs says today, and the law as it is being practiced out there. Would it change the law to match it? Does it also want compensation for municipalities, which is the most necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e179	With regard to the question from the representative of Meltveit Kleppa, several issues have been raised, including: two-price system for electricity. I would like to say that it is probably more within the responsibility of the Minister of Oil and Energy. But as far as my area is concerned, I would say that studies have been carried out in relation to this that just concluded that it had unfortunate distribution effects and that it did not necessarily carry out what was going on a social profile. As regards the finances of municipalities, the natural place for assessing the finances of municipalities — both revenue and expenditure — will be in the context of the revised national budget. I also repeat that the Government will follow developments closely, and we may consider the need for further action. The legal framework of the Social Services Act is sufficient in relation to an individual assessment, as I see it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e186	Asmund Kristoffersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e189	I guess there's no doubt that when the first power bill comes, a lot of people get into a very difficult economic situation. And as has been mentioned here before, both the members of the Government and representatives of the Government have stood up and said that those in such a situation will receive the necessary help. You kind of have to trust that. But when the first example shows up, as we saw on one of the TV channels yesterday, it looks like the opposite is happening. Is it really the case, as the Minister now says, that there is no need to change the legislation in order to capture cases where there is a clear need for help? Should a focus on wealth ratios, e.g.: a car, that one actually has to sell the car before one can get help to pay the extraordinary electricity bill that comes in February/March? Can we have it like this? This may, of course, detract from the basis for participation in the labour market of a person experiencing such financial difficulties.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e196	The question raised by Kristoffersen is also a matter of law, as I understand it. And what is contained in the legislation is precisely that wealth conditions necessary for necessary living should not be part of the assessment. For example, it could be a car that you need to take part in your work. We have increased the rates in the housing aid scheme. Social assistance should be provided in Norway to ensure the safety of clothing, food, light and heat. But it's not like the social office gives you a credit card to pay these bills, and I don't expect the representative Kristoffersen to believe that. A concrete, individual assessment must be made that includes both revenue, expenditure and wealth. But it should also be so that the social office will help you to contact power suppliers, if necessary, in order to obtain a type of deduction in connection with the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e203	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e206	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. In the last few years, cows to zone in Norwegian prisons have almost exploded. Since Dørum took over as Minister of Justice, the queues have increased from 1,500 to over 2,500. As a result, people who have committed serious crimes have to wait a long time for atonement after their sentence has passed. For the victims and society, it's completely incomprehensible, and it's unacceptable. In addition, it breaks down the legal system we have. In addition, we know that the care situation is critical. We are still getting news from all over the country that notorious profit criminals are being released from custody, contrary to the wishes of the police and the courts. Often they also commit new crimes after they have been released. The Minister of Justice has now had a year and a half to find out what he wants to do with the atoning cows. The Labour Party believes that it is clear that an answer must now be given to the following: When is it possible to terminate the settlement queues, and when will the Minister of Justice present a plan for their liquidation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e217	The issues raised here were thoroughly presented and also discussed in the context of the 2003 State budget. I'm going to go into some of the very specific circumstances. It was pointed out that some of the pressures in settlement areas could be reduced by actively using community sanctions. There is a broad consensus on this in Stortinget. It was taken last year to do something about it, and it will be actively followed up this year. In addition, the revised national budget last year and also the total budget for the current year took steps to increase settlement capacity by a significant number of places, including: in the case of the Vardåsen at Kongsvinger, and also in the case of new cell sites, inter alia. in Skien and Trondheim, and also by the release of cells that have been used for custody in Oslo prison, and which Oslo police district has disposed of. The second part of the question that was raised went to an emergency situation at the end of the year, where there was a lack of custody. Immediately, six cells that were part of the plans for the current year were made available to the police in the most pressing part of the country where this was the case, namely, in the east country before Christmas. It is also during the completion of eleven cells in Trondheim. Of course, we're following everything up, so that you don't end up in the situation that the representative has taken up. The priority for housing is as follows: 1st@item: inlistbox Type of goods2. Serious and serious crime, including: linked to threads3. Crime of violence I think that the sum of the measures we have to impose the community penalty in time to avoid people not ending up in reconciliation, that we are doing more in relation to youth, that we have, to a small extent, used duplication – there were 29 doubles last November – that we are building up the capacity that the Storting is familiar with, and that the Government is also coming back with the plans that, among others, are. is outlined in the 2003 State Budget, will bring about a consensus between people’s sense of justice and that people can zone in a timely manner, as the representative is concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e240	I thank the Council of State for the answer. But I still want to ask for a concrete plan, because what is the problem of the whole progress of the compensation, is that there is no plan and no systematics, that it is always just climbing. In addition, in relation to Vardåsen and the measures taken, we know that there will be some kind of fire-extinguishing afterwards, and we know that the well-being queues are still increasing. We also know that the settlement queues are not only increasing as a result of several judges and that the police have become more effective; the paradox is that they are also increasing due to closed departments and lack of money. Just before Christmas we were told that an entire department is closed at Ullersmo, and that there is also empty space at Skien incarceration. In addition, we know that the school department at the Ring Kingdom prison has been closed for periods. My question to the Council of State is: How many places in existing prisons can be opened by granting extra money to prisons? I would like to remind the Council of State that the Workers' Party is ready to give up if you are finally willing to give more money to the prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e247	It has been informed that the department of Ullersmo, mentioned above, was vacant for reasons other than its not being used, because it was part of the reconciliation regime at the institution. But I have taken the initiative that these cells can be clarified during this year so that they are used to increase the settlement capacity. The cells in the ski, which was mentioned, were prepared as mentioned and were ready for use before Christmas. The plan outlined is a series of measures contained in the budget proposal for the current year. Here it is enough to remember that there has been a cross-political will in Stortingen to build cows, because it has also been that some of the sin I manage, also partly is inherited sin. I'm not going to dwell on inherited sin, but I'm going to dwell on the possibility of jointly lifting myself out of an impossible situation. There has been a broad will in Stortinget to do, among other things. by excellent cooperation around the Vardåsen plant. I will continuously follow the situation and by various measures ensure that these queues can be reduced and reduced, and will return to it in natural contexts, which may be revised national budgets and the 2004 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e257	The President will remind – in this case as an expert – that inherited sin is indelible. There will be follow-up questions – Knut Storberget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e262	One thing is the quantitative -- how many new places we can create. But it turns out that Norwegian prisons back to 2001 have never had so many prisoners inside the doors. And then the question is, what do we do with the prisoners when they come inside the doors? That was also the background to the Workers' Party's proposal at the last state budget reading, when we wanted to grant 50 million. extra for criminal protection. When you get inside, you also need a chance to get out of these prisons as rehabilitated. We know that the share of both psychiatric and drug problems and other social problems is increasing, and I want to ask the Minister of Justice if it is such that the current framework for criminal justice helps to ensure that resources per year. The inmate actually goes down and will make it harder to rehabilitate these, and what he wants to do with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e269	It is very nice that we get a reprisal of the debate that took place for, unfortunately, a little too empty a floor when we discussed the budget before Christmas. Therefore, I can repeat that the criminal law budget was strengthened by a significant amount, at the base of 90 million. kr, and was further strengthened in the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party by 10 million. kr, so that the framework has increased significantly in relation to what has happened in recent years. Some of this has gone to capacity, but some have also gone to content. A 14 mill content gain. kr has been completed in all the counties of the country, it has been possible to reintroduce the possibility of § 12 zoning, i.e. those who have drug problems can zone in an institution rather than sit in, and there have been different forms of sensory programmes, 1.5 million. kr, which will strengthen the quality of the compensation. In addition, we will place great emphasis on what is called administrative cooperation, that people on the way from prison can come into a situation where there is a cooperation between criminal, social and labour authorities, so that there is no social vacuum. The sum of these measures will help to improve the quality of compensation and avoid, as far as we can, the return of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e278	André Kukkestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e281	I understood that in his reply, the Council of State thought that community punishment was to be used not only where it had the best effect, but to save money in prison. This shows a clear criminal profile. But one of the major problems, in any case, is the release of convicted and custody prisoners because of the lack of detention facilities. Now it takes a long time for that capacity to be increased by fixed sites in Norway. The Council of State may see alternative solutions that can remedy the situation rapidly, such as: by looking at England?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e288	Here were two questions. Social penalties shall be applied where they are to be used in accordance with the law. But unfortunately, there are different practices in the states. Eastfold is a glistening example of a state in which, through long-term cooperation between the criminal services, prosecutors, lawyers, police and courts, a system has been developed to make a great deal of use of the community sentence. And then there are states where there's practically nothing happening. What we will then do is ensure that the social penalty is applied in accordance with its purpose – as intended – not to save money, but because it makes sense for people to settle in an appropriate way. We could rather say that we are using money today by saying that people who were supposed to be subjected to social punishment are not exposed to it, but instead are put in a pay queue, and here is the representative Kukkestad and I fully agree. To the second question. We have a Norwegian Penal Code. It is based on criminal enforcement in Norway and is based on rehabilitation in this country. However, we have examined whether there are vacancies in countries that resemble us so much that we can say that we do not violate Storting's intentions when the law was dealt with. We have checked in Nordic countries, and there are no vacancies. It's almost perceived that we're exporting a problem to others. We must sweep at our own door and solve this in our own country. We have done so in part in the proposal for the current year's budget, and we will come back with further measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e302	Anne Helen Rui – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e305	I agree with the Minister of Justice that we have had the debate on pay queues before, but the queue is increasing considerably. Yesterday we got numbers that show that 2 115 of the non-zoned convictions have a penalty period of less than 90 days and an average length of 38 days. There's also 563 per million judgments that aren't zoned yet. The Minister of Justice himself was concerned that we have imposed social sanctions. But I don't understand why it doesn't now start to work properly. Many of these people, who are among the 2,100, could, in my opinion, have used the social penalty. Then I want to know if the Minister of Justice is doing something special to make the community sentence work, and if there are any other alternatives that the Minister of Justice might also come along with in addition to community punishment. So we know that we're going to have prom programmes in each state. When do they start properly in each state?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e316	The pro-mille programmes have been adopted for this year, and I assume that they will start as soon as possible this year. They will be an alternative to unconditional imprisonment, so they will affect how many people may be in the pay queue. As far as the social penalty is concerned, I have, on previous price initiatives, among other things. by the representatives of the Workers' Party, shown that we are working systematically throughout the country to spread the happy message from Eastfold. Look to Eastfold! It's just to cross fjords in not mentioned counties – no one mentioned, no one forgotten – then on the other side of the Oslo Earth you can see how they do it in Eastfold. And it's clear that you follow the Eastfold example across the country, it's going to impose social sanctions on new cases. But we have no authority to give amnesty to those who stand there. As far as the statistics are concerned, the representative Rui is right in the sense that we haven't got any new figures, but within the figures there's that kind of judge. That's why we've taken initiatives to figure out: how many of these could be a potential for social punishment? I'm going to actively follow up on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e327	The President appreciates that the image of Eastfold states is corrected. In the previous spontaneous questioning, it was claimed that Fredrikstad cannot be compared to Hollywood! After the Minister of Justice's efforts in today's Question Time, Eastfold must be said to be rehabilitated! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e330	It must be allowed to say that the Minister of Justice has been very inspired by Eastfold, both when he was Minister of Transport, about the ability to lift, and also in this context. So Eastfold you must honor!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e336	It's done! Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e341	I have a question for the Social Minister. Norwegian Association of Developmentally Impaired Reporters on Forced Movement of Developmentally Impaired People and that there is a widespread problem. Municipalities move people unilaterally against their will for economic reasons. SV had a question to the Minister of Social Affairs about the issue in December and then got an answer. The Minister of Social Affairs pointed out at the time that the Government of Spring will present a major communication on the objectives, strategies and measures of the disability policy. Still, it's at the moment this happens. A number of mentally retarded people are moved to Norwegian municipalities, and there seem to be two reasons for this. One is, of course, the economic situation of Norwegian municipalities. The second is that it seems that the law is not clear as to what kind of permit, or lack of a permit, that exists, related to the possibility of moving. I would like to ask the Minister of Social Affairs, especially in relation to the law: will the Minister of Social Affairs look at the law and, if necessary, take legislative initiatives to prevent this situation from continuing?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e352	The representative of Ballo raises an important question, and the government is also concerned about this. I have seen that there have been several individual issues lately that are worrying, and we are aware of the issue. We already have work to do, because it is worrying that municipalities change or reduce their offer to those with developmental disabilities and that they have to move. It is important that municipalities continue the principles of responsibility reform. It has been nearly 12 years since the responsibilities reform was carried out. The targets are fixed, and I'm going to follow up on this. The government has announced that it will come to Stortinget with a big message about the condition of people with disabilities, as well as measures and strategies for further work. In that Communication, we will also review the functioning of the responsibilities reform, whether its objectives have been pursued and, where appropriate, also the assessment of measures necessary to ensure that this is established. The municipalities are responsible for providing the necessary services to those with developmental disabilities, including those on housing. It is about the obligation to provide services and that it should also be an individual assessment — not a group assessment. We now have a consultation proposal for action to have an individual plan for each one, which clarifies the specific situations and measures needed to be able to live and stay in one's own home. Today, the County Board of Appeal is the Board of Appeal for decisions on social services and the decisions in those appeals are final.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e363	For a person with no disability, coercive measures, such as coercive measures at a psychiatric institution, or other types of coercive measures, are clearly an offence. It will be perceived as an infringement. A number of mentally retarded persons may be relatively normal if resources are made available, for example in the form of home-based care, or that relatives are within, some may live in connection with relatives' homes, etc., and they are mentally so well-functioning that this is experienced by the mentally retarded person as an offense, just as experienced by others. When the municipality can implement this, it may seem that the law is not clear, is not precise, in order to prevent action being taken. Therefore, it is close to asking whether the Council of State will explicitly address this in a precise way in relation to the law on mental health protection and the law on social care or other legislation to prevent it from happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e370	Yes, as I said, we come with a big message where we will look at the condition of the disabled and also have a review of the status and necessary measures in relation to the mentally retarded. Today I experience that most municipalities are actually able to offer a good offer. It also means that it is a political will to take seriously the situation of those with mental retardation and that it is an exception. It also means that in the review of the responsibilities reform and the big message I have mentioned, we need to be aware that there should not be an exception, but that the individual should have the right to a home, and that it is the services to be adapted to the individual, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e377	There will be follow-up questions - Ola D. Lukewarm.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e380	In those cases where this movement is to be regarded as forced displacement, it is appropriate that Chapter 6A of the Social Code and that relating to the restriction of the use of force and coercion are to be recognised by an instance outside the municipality and outside the social service. I think it is very passive for the Social Minister to say that we will look at this in a message. I think that action should be taken immediately here and see if the law which is just about to take into account restrictions on the use of force and coercion should be used here immediately. So the question is, what is the government and the social minister willing to do in a resourceful way so that the municipalities don't press to move together mentally retarded people, which is completely contrary to the reform, as it is designed and to be practised? The Government now wants to go into and spend more money on the local economy, including: to resource-intensive users?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e387	The representative raises more questions. I want to confirm that there is an agency outside the municipality that can assess whether the services and measures are good enough. It is the county that is the Board of Appeal for decisions on social services. On the other hand, it is also important to stress that there is no right to complain about how municipalities organise services. As regards the action side, the Government has proposed an improvement in the grant scheme for resource-intensive users. It's out at the hearing. There are several options. We have made better and simpler arrangements in relation to car benefits. We also propose rules that regulate coercion against people with disabilities, which should lead to less forced use. We are evaluating the responsibilities reform, mentioned earlier, in relation to the EEAS on targets and strategies for the disabled, and we are also working to make it easier for people with disabilities in terms of welfare services. Then I think about the cancellation message about SATS.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e396	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e399	In relation to the issues we have seen, we are now talking about the use of coercion against individuals and individuals who have problems caring for their own interests. Then it turns out that municipalities actually coercive people together in institutions. In some cases, it is clear that some people who have been put out for solitude in connection with the HVPU reform might need an offer. But what we're seeing now is actually, you're using force to drive these people together for the sake of the economy. In this respect, I would like to ask the Minister of Social Affairs: does the Minister of Social Affairs think that this is not an infringement of individuals? If the Minister for Social Affairs thinks so, will the initiative be taken to ensure that the rights of these persons are protected in a much better way?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e406	The government has taken the initiative to review the responsibilities reform to see how it has worked. We do that in the big-time message about the disabled, as we put forward in the spring. Furthermore, it is not necessarily the case that offering a less developed place in an institution is cheaper than offering help in your own home. Responsibilities reform points out that mental retardants have the right to their own homes and that it should be an individual treatment. In several of the individual matters that have been up, I must say that I have wondered something about the way in which one has not been able to communicate with the individual's relative, guardian, etc. to obtain good solutions. But I underline again: they all, most of them are able to give priority to those who need the municipality the most. In this respect, it is important to take into account when assessing the functioning of the responsibilities reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e416	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e419	I would like to ask the Minister of Culture and the Church a question. The NRC Board has re-adopted decisions to merge a number of district offices. The closure of a district office cannot be regarded as less reorganisation and re-prioritisation, but is contrary to a position which could affect listeners’ offerings and the editorial line in the district shipments. Such extensive changes should be presented to the Storting, as previously stated by the Storting. The strategy of the NRC is clearly to take over the county, thus bypassing the wishes of the Storting and preventing an overall debate on the NRC's district structure here in the National Assembly. In view of the changes already made and the priorities presented by both the administration and the board of directors of the NRC, the Central Party considers that the Stortinget should in any case discuss the district office structure, precisely because this has such a great impact on listeners and viewers across the country. I've previously understood the Council of State that the question of further mergers of district offices is a matter that the council of state that the NRK General Assembly would bring before the Storting. Will the Council of State now ensure that the Stortinge is brought before it, in the light of the structural decision that has just been taken on the board of the NRK?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e430	The matters to which the representative refers are for day-to-day management in the Ministry, and no conclusion has been reached on how to deal with it. I would like to add that I have also been given the impression that there is nothing very desirable that the matter should be dealt with in Stortinget. I also mean myself that the changes that happen in this session are such that the general meeting may not be able to handle them. The decision of the Management Board may be accepted. This is to be assessed in the department, and I have not drawn any conclusion as to whether there will be an extraordinary general meeting, but I do not see that the changes in the board's decision will lead to the Storting managing board decisions. I also understand that there is not a multiple-synthesis from Stortinget that this will come to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e437	I thank the Council of State for the answer and would like to state that the Central Party is pleased with the decisions taken in relation to maintaining Sogn and Fjordane. I want to add it now. But I want to ask the Council of State where the Council of State really sees the border going, if the Council of State has in any case intended to comply with the Stortinge's wish for an overall debate on the NRK's regional policy profile. Where does the limit actually go when the Storting is going to have such a case?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e444	It's a little hard to answer the question. But I want to remind you that a reorganized NRK some years back. In fact, the ability of the size to intervene is achieved either through budgetary management or through the annual distribution that one might have in relation to the size of the NRC’s situation and media policy. At frequent intervals last year, this was up to debate in Stortinget. The budget debate was the last. But as one has organized the NRK as an AS, there is more power in the broadcaster than before. There is also more power in the government than before. I would like to stress that there is a great deal to be done before the General Assembly intervenes in relation to the decisions of the Board of Directors. I've done it at one point. I'm very pleased with the change that has also taken place in the Board's decision from the fall to the present, and then I get a final case before I draw a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e451	There will be follow-up questions – Ulf Erik Knudsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e454	I'm not going to ask the State Council to provide the district structure for the Storting, but it's a fact that the difference in the offer given is large from part of the country to part of the country, both in the case of NRK2 and in the case of district offices. This is a problem that the Progress Party has raised several times. We had a Document No. Eight proposals in the previous period. We recorded it in the media message last spring and not later than Christmas. Only the Center Party has found to be able to support us in this. Nevertheless, there are still people who deal with this, both in the form of letters, in the form of readers' letters in the media, etc. It's especially true that it's unfair that you don't get NRK2. We're as well-known for the compulsory subscription to the NRK, the license. We understand that it's not a majority to do anything about it. However, we feel that the difference that exists should form the basis for a total revision of the licensing system. I'd like to ask the Council of State if she will take up such a matter for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e463	I have no plans to present to the Stortinget case when it involves a total audit of the way the license is designed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e468	Magnar Lund Bergo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e471	I understand that the Council of State is temporarily satisfied with the changes that the NRK has made in view of its own home country. At the same time, the Council of State says that because the NRK is now transformed into an AS, it needs more to intervene in relation to structural changes. At the same time, it is clear that structural changes should be presented to the Storting. Now there have been changes in Hedmark, Uppland, the thunderstorms, it happens in North Norway, and it happens in Buskerud, Westfold and Telemark. Does the Council of State mean, then, that because structural changes occur in small portions, they should not be presented to the Storting? Does the Council of State think that if changes of this kind are presented in five portions, they shall not be submitted to the Grandfather, but if they come in one portion, shall they be submitted to the Grandfather?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e480	In the first place, I want to say that I'm a little unsure about where the representative thinks I'm from, and what's my home country. So I'm not from Sogn and Fjordane, if the representative imagines it, I've never bid there either. When it comes to these matters that the representative deals with, I would like to remind you that in the way we have organized the NRK, there is a great deal of freedom in the NRK's board of directors and the broadcasting director when it comes to the organisation of supply. I have not yet decided whether there will be an extraordinary general meeting in relation to the last decision made by the board. At the previous level, the board has not put matters before the general assembly, and I have not felt that matters have been so large that I have demanded them. So it happened in the summer that I asked them to think about it again. They have done so, and I think it is a positive development in relation to the decision of the Governing Board that is taking place. But I mean that the case that is on my table today is not of such a nature that it is natural that the Storting should handle her according to the way that the NRK is organized.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e490	As a Westerner, the President can confirm that there are differences between the provinces of Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane. Moreover, the Minister of Culture and the Church of Akershus represents the County of Stortinget, if I do not remember faults. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e495	I have a question for the Council of Churches. The female chapter in Goal Self will enter into partnership in February. He/she has been in his/her position for 13 years. The church meeting in 1997 decided that the Church does not want priests living in partnership in marriage positions. The bishops around the country have disagreed with the decision, and six priests living in gay partnerships are today accepted in marriage positions. Although this matter can be characterised as the Church's internal affairs, it still has great significance for the future in the Norwegian Church, and not least for the assessment of the state/church case. For me, it's about equivalency. What does the Council of State think about the situation of homosexuals in the Norwegian Church, both as church leaders and as members?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e502	When it comes to the matter pointed out by the representative from Målself, she clearly belongs within the Church's territory, and I have in no way intended to intervene. Nor have I done so in other matters when it comes to this issue. I know about the decision from the Church Meeting, I know that different bishops practice this differently, and I don't intend to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e507	In view of the answer given by the Council of State here, there is a real reason to ask what view the Government has of gay people's working conditions in our people's church. I don't think the government can hide behind the church leaders in this case. A leading member of the Government, our Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum, said earlier to the evening post the following: ‘Left looks forward to a church where gay cohabiting priests have a natural place.’ According to a poll in the newspaper Our Country, this is also in line with the view of the majority in the Church of Nations. Is it then such that the Council of State can stand behind the view of the Left in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e519	I think this is one of the issues that is shared in the Government. I would like to stress that it is very important that gay people, of course, also have protection in relation to their working life, and that they should not be discriminated against. At the same time, I think it is important to stress that trust societies, as the Norwegian Church is, are allowed to operate on the over-intelligence that Church has. Then it is only right for me to stress that I am not going to interfere with the way in which the Church deals with these matters. I would like to stress that, of course, I think it is important to show respect for homosexuals, too, but that one sees the theological differences that exist in the Norwegian Church when it comes to seeing this. We have not dealt with the issue, as the representative repeats his decision, with us, and I will show you the debate that is taking place internally in Church, and respect it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e526	There will be follow-up questions – Torny Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e529	It is currently an exception to the anti-discrimination clause of the Employment Environment Act that allows the Church not to hire homosexuals living in partnership. The government of Stoltenberg proposed to remove this paragraph, but did not get a majority. Some have claimed that the provision is a special authorisation to discriminate against homosexuals and lesbians in particular employment. In St.meld. No 25 for 2000-2001, on the living conditions of homosexuals and lesbians, is the main impression that many religious and life-view societies have a negative attitude towards gay life. It also turns out that many homosexuals are deeply offended by the Church's view of homophobic questions. Then I would like to ask: is it really that the Council of State will not work to remove this paragraph of the Working Environment Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e540	When the matter was handled, the representative knew, a number in Stortinget opposed to removing the paragraph. I agree with that decision. Here it is very important to respect that there are different theological interpretations – different church communities have different interpretations of this issue. It is to me a fundamental right for these church communities that they must be allowed to have. Besides, I don't think I want to answer anything more.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e549	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e552	I have a question for Minister of Justice Dørum. Before today, the Minister of Justice has been concerned with how important it is that we have a content in the settlement that makes it possible for people to come out again, so that they don't get into new criminal relationships very quickly. Then it's very interesting to see what society's up to when they get out. What unfortunately happens to a lot of people is that they come out to nothing. In particular, they come out of a situation where they have no place to live. Then a lot of them end up in what we call hospits. There are places I've visited, and which are such that quite gross criminals as I know escape from there. They're sleeping out there rather than being there. You don't have any chance of getting on your legs again if you get into an environment like that. What kind of security does the Minister of Justice think it must be for us to get out of this unfortunate spiral?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e563	The representative raised a question that really contains the following core: if there is no sensible meeting between social policy and justice policy, we lose sight of justice policy. The answer to this is that for too long we have had too much chance and crooked cooperation between those who should go together. I have had the following main thesis as a politician for a long time: in Norway there are many frozen crowns in frozen giants. I've experienced it myself, to be positive, the places where people go together. Let me start with what actually works well: we have an education scheme inside the prison that gives people a chance. But we have a sporadic and not good attitude in relation to social services, such as social services. was in the representative's question. And we have a setup that's going to start working in terms of jobs. Some of my ambitions are to ensure that administrative cooperation is brought into good and firm forms, because I think it is absolutely necessary not to end up on the outside with a plastic bag, as the representative describes it, and that we do not almost have to produce repeaters completely unnecessary. It's one of the areas where I want to use a lot of energy, of course in cooperation with other government councils, and also try to find contact between government levels, i.e. state and municipality. We have such an example in dealing with drugs, which implies cooperation between municipalities and different departments. This is my thinking also in relation to the core of the question that was asked. I fully agree that if you end up in a shelter, the chance is as the representative has described it. Here you are working with municipalities on reasonable housing offers, quality assured housing offers, which I, for example. knows that the City Council in Oslo has put a lot of effort into doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e575	I thank you for your answer. But I will then challenge this cooperation in the spontaneous Question Time now and therefore ask a follow-up question to Social Minister Ingerd Schou. We know that this is also about, as the Minister of Justice now said, people who come from drug treatment. Many of them are also on the verge – into a situation where very many others have the same problem – and I think I would have been there exactly one day or two sails before I had assessed it, if I had had to live under such conditions. Everyone can imagine that this is a policy that is somehow completely lacking in mind. Does the Minister of Social Affairs agree that we should have a law that gives the authorities an obligation to provide a durable and safe housing for those who come from such a situation, so that not all the resources we put into this are wasted, and so that we save people and things to get them a decent life?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e584	The representative, Andersen, addresses an important question. I want to underline what the Minister of Justice also said, that this is about working together between the different departments, but not least with the individual's municipality of residence, so that we get an offer that takes hold. When you come from drug treatment, you also need to be assured that you can have new and better friends, a home offer that means that you need to go home to your own municipality or other municipality if you want to, and help you live where you need it. It is this 'Rusreform 1' and 'Rusreform 2' that are about the different actors playing together.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e589	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e592	I have a question for the Social Minister. The head of social services in several municipalities now says that they no longer have the financial resources to provide the same help as before to be highly nurturing. In the media, we have e.g. Seeing that heavily nurturing Olise Groenskag loses his safety crew at night. As we have heard earlier here today, mental retardants are being moved from integrated dwellings to dwellings where several have to be cared for with the same crew. In this way, institutions are growing again, contrary to what was intended in the reform of mental retardation. Does the Council of State think that this is an acceptable way to meet the needs of those who need it the most, and will the Minister of Social Affairs intervene with the municipalities to ensure that they get the help they need?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e599	The representative Hildeng addresses a question related to a single matter mentioned in the media – disabled Olise. I want to assure the representative that I have in contact with the county councillor that this matter will be dealt with quickly by the county board. I'm going to follow individual cases, and I'm also going to assess the individual issues and their content in a more general context in the big picture alerted to the condition of the disabled, what strategies we need to put in place, and, if necessary, also measures to ensure that each disabled person is given the necessary offer, so that it is the services that are adapted to the individual, and not the other way around. I feel that there are many municipalities that are doing it. It is also about political will and professional competence. The main principle of these cases should be to do what is provided for by law, namely that, in the case of appeal proceedings, there is suspensive effect and that, in this way, the action is not implemented until the complaint has been effectively dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e606	It is okay to look at individual matters, but this represents a general problem and is about the opportunities of municipalities and the finances of municipalities to follow up resource-intensive users. The size has repeatedly asked for a new method of funding for resource-intensive users. It was promised that we would have a proposal for this in connection with the revised national budget last year, and it was promised that we would have it in the budget for this year. It has not yet come, and I will ask: when can we expect to get a case on this to Stortinget, a case that provides a financial guarantee for those users who need it all, most of all?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e611	I thought I had answered this question in connection with previous questions today. The system of State grants to municipalities with resource-intensive users is central to the issue of the responsibility of the state for the ability of municipalities to finance these tasks, and the Government also provides for a new and better system. This will be presented in connection with the municipal proposal for spring. In addition, I would like to say that it is equally important that we have a statutory right to an individual plan at the hearing, where the needs and necessary measures of the individual become the starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e618	The time for the oral questioning procedure is running out. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e623	There will be a wide range of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Change Sørestad to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Social Affairs who directs him. The question will be raised by the representative of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa. Question 4, from the representative Svein Roald Hansen to the Minister of Finance, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 5, from the representative of Mr Hedstrom to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has been removed. Question 7, from the representative Inge Ryan to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy, who will direct him. Question No 9, by Mr Gjermund Hageseter, representative of the Minister for Oil and Energy, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 11, from the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister for Education and Research, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 12, from the representative Rolf Rekvamm to the Minister for Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Education and Research, who has been away. At the request of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, this question is proposed to be moved and answered in response to question 3, which is also to be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Question 13, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has been removed. Question 15, from the representative of Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Social Affairs, is proposed at the request of the Council of State, moved and answered in response to question 1. Question 21, from the representative Marit Nybakk to the Minister of Defence, is proposed to be moved by agreement between the Council of State and the questioner, and answered before question 1, i.e. first in the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e651	The first question that will be answered after these changes is then question 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e658	I have allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence – it was otherwise promoted well over a month ago: ‘According to the Newspaper on 10 December this year’ – the question was thus raised in December – ‘the National Audit Office’s review showed that the accounts in the 6th Division are in breach of State purchasing arrangements. The examples mentioned help to consolidate the impression of wasting in the Defence. What has the Council of State done to ensure that the confidence in defence is high also in financial management?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e667	The statement in the Newspaper on 10 December 2002 was made on the basis of a letter sent from the National Audit Office to the 6th Division. The letter is based on the revision of the sixth division accounts for 2002. The National Audit Office asked a number of questions to be answered by the 6th Division. I am informed that the 6th Division has blackened the Riksrevision that they look seriously at a number of comments and will take action as soon as possible to avoid similar cases in the future. The Riksrevision has not yet dealt with the 6th Division letter of reply, and it is therefore too early to say anything about the Riksrevision's conclusion on these matters. The process is that if the Riksrevision is not satisfied with the answers, the questions will be sent to the Defence Command for an opinion. If the Court of Auditors is still not satisfied, the matter will be referred to the Ministry of Defence. In other words, this is a matter which is in a process of the Riksaudition, and which has not been concluded, but in which the 6th Division absolutely acknowledges that they will take seriously the facts that are being pointed out. As regards the revision of the defence accounts for 2001, I refer to the National Audit Office's Document No. 1 for 2002–03, which was transmitted to the Stortinget in November 2002. In my opinion, the National Audit Office's observations do not provide the basis for a general conclusion on the waste or poor financial management of the Defence Agency. However, I would like to stress that all comments from the Riksrevision are taken seriously and that the Ministry of Defence, by letter of 25 October 2002, instructed the Defence Department to take action to remedy the situation. The defence is in the process of drawing up a comprehensive action plan which also sets out the measures taken. As part of the general effort to meet the requirements of the State Financial Regulation, improve the financial management of the Defence and reduce the operating costs of the IT systems, the Defence has established the Program GOLF. This programme involves the establishment of a common defence management system that will strengthen the defence's ability to manage and control matters such as wages, economics, accounting, material, maintenance, governance and management. The first part of this system will be in place during 2003, and the Stortinge will be provided with more detailed information on this in the 2004 budget proposal or on another appropriate occasion. It is therefore that the Defence and Defence Department are taking the ongoing dialogue with the National Audit Office very seriously, responding to the issues raised and, where necessary, changing procedures for the future. And one of the projects specifically mentioned, GOLF, will contribute greatly to better financial management and management in the Defence as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e680	I would like to thank you for a thorough answer. I think it is important that it is not that the defence is orderly in its own ranks by breaking state purchasing systems, and is reassured to hear that it is closely followed. However, let me add that also in the case of the conversion programme GOLF, as mentioned by the Council of State, there have been some uncertainties about the financial management needed. In order to reduce the risk, an deployment strategy was chosen to divide the overall scope of supply of the programme into several phases. This means that the first phase must be evaluated before the conclusion of a contract, as far as I can understand. This has also been asked by Stortinget to be informed. I would ask the Council of State to monitor cost developments also in the case of the GOLF project, or what has now become a programme, very carefully. We have, as we know, past experience with complex information systems that have failed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e687	Yes, there is full agreement between the present and the previous government. Large, complex information systems always pose a risk. With my background from the computer industry, I can add a little untimely that you said something like that was the general rule that such a project broke by p, that is, that you could multiply it by 3.14. It is, of course, very important to avoid such a cost gap. That's why my predecessor, Councillor Godal, chose to split up the GOLF project into phases. Large-scale information projects need to be subdivided into phases that are so small that it is possible to have an overview of them. So it's done to have better control of the economy. And there we agree – the present and the previous government. I also want to add that there have been attempts in the media to generate cost figures for the overall project GOLF. There are figures I don't have, and neither is the project manager in the GOLF project in the Defence Military Organisation, because these are estimates made by another unit in the Defence Agency, the conversion unit ARGUS, with the aim of being able to answer another problem, and with a background in a history before the project was split up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e696	Just one final comment: I thank you for the answer and would like to state that it is important that the defence, precisely during the transition period we are in, in practice shows that the unculture of which one may have felt has existed in parts of the defence in terms of waste of public funds and possibly also the drudgery of billing, must cease, and that we are very clear that we have a proper financial management at such a stage. It must not be allowed to get the impression that while other public agencies have to save and be embarrassingly profitable and accurate, the defense does as it pleases. So I'm essentially just going to ask the Council of State to confirm, both in terms of the GOLF and the 6th division and other major projects that we're now doing in Defence, that you have an economic governance that makes it also political governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e701	Firstly, I would like to say that the close work of the National Audit Office on Defence shows that there is no general unculture in Defence, and that there is no trend towards less emphasis being placed here on economic governance and compliance with the applicable regulations. But the defense is a big organization, and there will therefore be a need for close and good dialogue with the National Audit Office. When the Riksrevision comes up with a reference, it shall be followed up, so that it does not end up as a matter, but that there will be an agreement on the handling in the course of the procedure. It is also quite right, as the representative Nybakk says, that because the defence has so much of the resources of society, it is particularly important that both taxpayers and others feel secure that these resources are managed in the best possible way. It has something to do with the confidence of the Defense. That is why we pay particular attention to it. There's also one of the reasons why this new IT project, GOLF, is divided into phases: it's going to give us a better chance of such a financial management than we would have had without a breakdown.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e708	Let's move on to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e715	This question, from the representative of Change Sørestad to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Social Affairs who is directing him, and the question is addressed by the representative of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e718	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘The Minister of State has warned of stepping up efforts for the poor. At high power prices, municipalities have to expect an increase in the payment of social assistance to their users today. There is also reason to believe that more families and individuals than last year need financial support. What strategy does the Prime Minister have in 2003 to prevent the number of poor from rising instead of falling into Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e727	The Prime Minister has asked me to answer the question that is right for him. The representative Skreisestad and Kleppa demand, based on the situation of the last few weeks with high electricity prices, the government's strategy to prevent the poverty of more people. The vast majority of Norway are in an economic situation where they will cope with the extra load caused by high electricity prices over a limited period of time. However, some households may have problems paying the electricity bill as a result of the exceptional situation of high electricity prices and the long cooling period that we have had. This will include, inter alia: relate to some minimum pensioners and others with a weak economy. Therefore, with effect from the first semester of this year, the size has increased the aid to light and heat in the housing aid scheme for minimum pensioners and insured persons. The government submitted last week a proposal to the Storting that an additional grant of NOK 700 be paid to all groups under the housing support scheme, including families with children, as compensation for the increased electricity prices. Persons who do not have their own resources may be entitled to social assistance to cover the necessary expenditure, such as: electricity and heating. In addition to financial support, the social service may also provide advice, guidance and contact with, for example: power suppliers. The government has also taken immediate action to improve the situation for consumers. The Ministry of Oil and Energy will keep in close contact with energy companies, among others. in order to offer their electricity customers a reasonable breakdown of the electricity bill and flexible solutions before customers have any problems. Norway's Watercourse and Energy Directorate will launch wide-ranging information and advice measures to help the public with sensible energy-saving measures. The government has also announced several other initiatives. The government will follow developments in electricity prices closely in the future and will also keep an eye on the need for measures for those experiencing problems due to high electricity prices. As regards the Government’s action against poverty, this follows the action plan against poverty presented by the Government in October. The plan contains targeted measures to prevent and help people out of a situation of persistently low income and subsequent living conditions problems. Several actions were implemented in 2002. The majority of the population joined the Government's proposal for measures for 2003 in the last harvest budgetary procedure. Progress in 2003 includes, inter alia: job-oriented measures for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance and immigrants and targeted improvements in social welfare schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e744	The government's action plan against poverty is good, as far as he went. But 335 million. kr is less than one fifth of the anti-smooth message amounting to. The queues of the Salvation Army before Christmas, an increasing number of people without work and heavy power expenditures would increase efforts. So the government's answer is a maximum of 700 kroner in increased support. I suggest that the government itself knows the prices so well that they know that this is inadequate. I am surprised that the others answer to the Government so far have been: turn to the social office! In a year when one was to step up efforts for the poor, one more can get more social assistance clients, and one can end up with an increasing number that does not get help from the social office, because one does not want to change the current legislation. Is that really what the only government council has to set up with?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e751	In 2002–03, the government granted nearly 600 million. kr for action against poverty, and that is a significant amount. The measures are targeted, and the most important thing is to help people to work. That's what separates those who are poor from those who are not. We have also reinforced efforts in relation to housing aid schemes. It's not right that this is just NOK 700. It is 450 kroner plus 700 kroner, and the government has always stressed that this has been a measure now initially, and we need to further assess the need for possible new and more measures. We have always stressed that this is immediate action. I am a little surprised that the representative of Meltveit Kleppa, as the former holder of this post, finds it surprising that the government is informing about the security network that is in the social service, precisely because it is the security network that individuals can have when they do not get the means to extend to the most and of course necessary services such as food, clothing, electricity and heat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e758	It's right that this is about 700 kroner plus 450 kroner that are charged before. But there's a number of households that have far more expenditure. Reconciliation is a known cover. For me, this seems to be a indulgence, an attempt to buy free from a situation that is far more difficult than the state council is now producing it. It is impossible for many social leaders today to set up with the help of many clients who turn to them, because they have a tight community economy hanging over them. It is not enough that the Council of State then answers that the Government will follow developments closely, and it is surprising to me that the Prime Minister did not ask for a postponement of this question, so that he himself could present some more superior measures. Would the Council of State make more money available to the municipalities in the revised budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e765	I am also somewhat surprised that the representative Meltveit Kleppa calls this indulgence when the government actually targets measures specifically to those who need it the most. I have earlier in the spontaneous Question Time stressed that this is immediate action, and that we, of course, as the government, need to assess that situation further and will follow closely. I also expect that the representative Meltveit Kleppa will not be able to make an assessment in relation to the local economy on the basis of forecasts, but on the basis of safe knowledge. The right place to assess the finances of municipalities, both revenue and expenditure, is in the revised national budget. I also dare to remember that the government has put forward a tight budget, which has led to a decline in interest rates that makes municipalities better able to cover their services.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e770	The President will allow himself to recall that indulgence had to do with the other side. Let's go to question 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e779	I will ask the Minister of Social Affairs the following questions: ‘In the evening post at Christmastime, an AFP pensioner, who had his pension curtailed with holiday money earned the year before, came forward. According to the Evening Post, the Ministry of Social Affairs concluded that this should be changed for the future and that holiday pay should not be included in the calculation of income as a basis for any curtailment of the pension. Is the legislation corrected accordingly in such a way that it is applicable per. current date, and is the same for ordinary age pensioners?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e788	It is correct, as the representative Nesvik refers to, that holiday pay paid after withdrawal of the AFP could in some cases lead to a curtailment of the pension. Usually, holiday pay should not be a problem with the AFP, for holiday pay according to the holiday law is to be paid at the end of the employment relationship. So it happens that the time of payment is still postponed after the withdrawal of the AFP. In such cases, the result could be poor because the holiday money was treated in the same way as ordinary labour income, so the pension was reduced by a larger amount than it would otherwise have been. I can confirm that the legislation in question was adjusted before Christmas, so that the AFP should not be reduced for income arising from work or activities before retirement, including holiday money and ownership income from activities in which the pensioner is no longer a partner. This means that holiday pay should not be included in the curtailment of the AFP in the case referred to in the Evening Post. In the case of an old-age pension based on social security, the situation is different, mainly because you operate with a completely different amount limit for when to start curtailing the pension. In the AFP scheme, this ceiling is set at NOK 15 000, while it is at the basic amount of the population’s fear twice, i.e. close to NOK 110 000 for an old-age pension. In addition, an explicit derogation has been made in the Law on Social Security for fully completed work and after-care incomes, such as: holiday pay for the year following the year of withdrawal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e797	I thank the Minister for the answer. The evening post of 18 December 2002 reads: ‘The authorities shall rotate and allow all AFP pensioners to retain their holiday money. However, social security offices do not themselves have an overview of who has been misdrawn.» In addition, Head of Department Kari Haugstvedt of the Swedish National Works said: «For those who have complained, it is okay,... they will support the complaint and thus avoid being drawn. But for the rest, we depend on them to contact themselves» Will the Council of State ensure that all pensioners who have been unduly exposed to this kind of curtailment of their pensions are made aware of this and that they have access to complaints?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e814	What I can do, at least, is encourage those who are aware of it, to take this up with their local social security office and complain. In addition, I can also address the issue with the Rikstrygdeverket.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e819	I thank the Council of State for the answer and hope that you will try to find out about these people who have unlawfully curtailed their pension. Furthermore, in his first reply to me, the Minister of Social Affairs said that it has now been done with retroactive effect for 2001. Then I ask the social minister the following question: What about those who have been exposed to this before, and the injustice to which these have been subjected during the time that the AFP system has worked?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e826	The legislation, as it stands, also applies to previous years. We have addressed the issue and amended the legislation in question. The starting point was that this would be paid before you took out your AFP, and that this would not be a problem. But we have been made aware that this is a problem and have therefore changed the legislation. We adjusted it before Christmas, and we have given the retroactive effect for 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e831	We're now going back to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e838	I allow myself to ask a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: "As a member of the Security Council in the last two years, Norway would fight for human rights and focus more on the unresolved conflicts in the world. In the desert south-west of Algeria, there are 165 000 Saharan refugees, in the middle of some of the most hostile area in the world. Here they live because Morocco occupies the Western Sahara. What initiative can the Government take to ensure the right of the Sahrawi to decide for themselves its own and its own country’s future through a free and democratic referendum?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e847	Norway has consistently maintained its support for the UN's work on the Western Sahara case, including the previously adopted resolution, the so-called Settlement Plan. We have further stated that the parties themselves, with the help of the UN Special Envoy James Baker, need to find a solution to the conflict. During the Norwegian Presidency in March last year, we conducted consultations between the parties directly affected by the conflict and the members of the Council. The Council's last resolution on the matter, Resolution 1429, was adopted unanimously on 30 July of that year. The parties have expressed satisfaction with Norway’s balanced approach to the conflict and with the role played by Norway in addressing the Western Sahara issue in the Security Council. Although we have now left the Security Council, we will continue to fully support the efforts and mediation process under the auspices of the Council. The objective will continue to be to contribute to a peaceful, lasting and fair solution to the Western Sahara conflict. Norway has also stressed the humanitarian aspects of the work on the Western Sahara conflict, such as the return of prisoners of war, the disappearance of persons and the situation of refugees. In 2001 and 2002, 2.5 million were granted. kr to the work of the Church's Emergency Aid in the refugee camps in Tindouf, where the Church's Emergency Aid has sent out staff. In addition, 3 million were granted in November 2002. to the work of the UNHCR in the refugee camps. We aim to continue this increased effort in 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e860	I thank you for your answer. Can the Foreign Minister think of a long-term solution to this conflict that does not involve a referendum on the issue of sovereignty and that the Algerian refugees are returned to their homes in Western Sahara?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e865	We stand firm on the positions we have had in this matter before, and not least the process that is now under the authority of the Security Council. It's also based on the principles we've applied in the past. So we have no changes in our positions in this area. We now see it as important that the parties find a solution precisely by means of the Security Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e870	I thank you for your answer. As it may seem to me, Moroccan authorities have increasingly both trained and rejected all positive recordings from Front Polisario. Last year, on the 27th anniversary of the occupation of Western Sahara, King Mohammed stated that Moroccan authorities do not intend to comply with the agreements they have previously signed. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs think it is natural to raise this question with Moroccan authorities in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e879	First of all, I believe that the most important thing now is that the Security Council is sitting in the driver's seat working on these questions. But Jacobsen is quite right that Norway also has an interest in the matter, and we want to do everything we can to support the work of the Security Council. This also means that when we are in conversation with the parties, we will present the positions that Norway has had over a longer period of time on these issues. But I would like to stress that the Security Council must of course sit in the driver's seat in the drive to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e888	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘In the GATS negotiations in the WTO, Norway has both sent and received a number of requests for the liberalisation of trade in services. The U.D. reports on its website that ‘Norway’s bilateral proposal reflects the main Norwegian export interests in the world market for services’. It is therefore to be assumed that industry has been actively involved in this process. Will Norwegian trade unions and aid and solidarity organisations be invited to participate in the wider negotiations in the same way as industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e897	The Government attaches great importance to contributing to the transparency and involvement of the social and economic partners during the WTO negotiation process. There are thus several sample sizes, composed of a large number of organisations, involving representatives from both the employer and the employee sides. Among other things, an Advisory Forum has been established for the negotiations on the GATS General Agreement on Trade in Services. These include, for example, the LO, the NHO, the Joint Association, the Principality of Education Groups and the Norwegian Municipal Association. Also non-governmental organisations, such as The Development and Environment Forum participates in the sample. The committee has 42 non-ministerial members. Meetings have been held with those organisations with direct interests related to some service sectors in the GATS negotiations. In preparation for the Norwegian negotiating requirements, meetings were held last year with more than 30 trade associations and stakeholder organisations from the employers’ and employees’ side to discuss which Norwegian industrial interests were to be included in Norway’s negotiating requirements. In the GATS negotiations, we are now in a phase in which, on the Norwegian side, we analyse the negotiating requirements that Norway has received from other countries. We will be submitting our preliminary negotiating offer by 31 March of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e913	I do not think there was an answer to the question. The question was therefore whether the trade union movement and the aid and solidarity organisations will also be invited in line with the next stage of business, whether they will have an equivalent role for these different types of interests in the phase to which they enter after 31 March. In addition, I would like to point out that so far no initiative has been taken here to inform the Storting about what has been supplied by claims, and that it may be close to assuming that some economic operators, such as the Minister for Foreign Affairs, have been involved in the design of the requirements. Therefore, I wonder to what extent business has been given access to the demands of Norway, compared to the transparency of other actors, for example. The stork, has got.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e920	I must honestly admit that now I'm not quite sure what we're doing, because I don't think the Lightbaking completely heard what I said. So what I said was that, among other things, professional organisations are included in these selections in line with commercial interests. In the hope that he will then hear, I would like to say the following, namely that the advisers for the service negotiations are composed of the Academics, the Norwegian Lawyers' Association, the Norwegian Data Association, the Norwegian General Association, the Norwegian Publishing Association, the travel industry section of HSH, the National Association of Energy Companies, the Confederation of Finances, the National Association of Airlines, the National Association of Commercial and Service Industries, INTSOK, LO, NHO, Norway's Association of Ownership Agents, Norway's Association of Exports, Norwegian Funding Agency, Norwegian Shipowners' Association, Norwegian Shipowners' Association, Norwegian Shipowners' Association, Norwegian State-authorised Auditors' Association, Norwegian Film Associations' Association, Norwegian Film and TV Producers' Association, Norwegian Association of Remote Education, Norwegian Research Association, Norwegian Municipal Council, Norwegian Municipal Association of Directors, Norwegian University Colleges's Association, Norwegian University of Sparcours's Association, Norwegian Film Workers' Association, Norwegians Association, Norwegian Film Workers' Association, Norwegian Films Association, Norwegians' Associations Association, Norwegians Association of Agricultural and Norwegians So that means that the Lighthouse was heard for a long time before he had asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e929	That was a clever way to use up speaking time. So my question was that, in addition to the samples that have been set down, we have to assume that there has been relatively large participation from different interests in Norway in the specific design of the proposal. But now leave it. One side of this is in any case that Norwegian aid and solidarity organisations are obviously not so satisfied with the transparency and participation they have received, as the Foreign Minister here suggests they should be. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he acknowledges the importance of ensuring that the organisations working with foreign issues in Norway have transparency and influence in line with the industry in the next phase of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e936	This comment I'm afraid does not go, because we have a sample here where all of the people I mentioned participate, and in addition to the organisations that the Light Hill is now occupied with, so that he has actually received a positive answer to his question. This is in and of itself also things that have been known in advance. The fact that all of these organisations are involved means that the underlying premise, that is, that it's just the business that's been in these organizations, that is, it's not right. A large number of trade unions are also involved, and I cannot therefore see what the Lysbaken problem really is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e941	We go to question 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e948	The question has been asked to the Minister for Education and Research but is answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e951	I have asked the Minister for Education and Research the following questions, which are now answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘The government’s proposal for private school law does not provide State aid to commercial actors wishing to run schools. However, the WTO GATS Code implies that Norway may have to accept such actors in line with non-commercial actors all the way down to primary school. Will the Government maintain the restriction it has proposed in the Private School Act, and will it also work in the negotiations, or will it open up to commercial actors in the Norwegian school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e960	I would first like to make it clear that the government does not want to open up the commercial operation of schools. In my opinion, the GATS agreement also does not imply any right for foreign service providers to operate schools on a commercial basis without simultaneously losing the requirement of State aid under the proposal for a new school law. Rolf Requam’s question is based on a misunderstanding of the rights and obligations arising from the GATS Agreement. The decisive point in relation to Article XVII of the WTO and the GATS Agreement is that providers from Member States other than Norway are entitled to offer their services on equal terms with Norwegian service providers. In other words, there is no right to operate on more favourable terms for foreign service providers. Consequently, there is no basis in the GATS agreement to claim that foreign service providers, unlike Norwegian service providers, have the right to operate commercially at the same time as they receive State aid. The government can therefore, with the full support of the GATS Agreement, propose legal regulation which does not entitle any of the Member States’ service providers to the commercial operation of schools. The proposal for a new law on early school leave therefore proposes the following restrictions in relation to commercial operations: Firstly, the school is only allowed to charge school fees on the basis of the amount necessary to cover, together with the State grant, operating costs equivalent to the level of expenditure at a public school which is naturally comparable to those at a public school. the second sentence of Section 6-2 of the proposal. If higher school fees are to be established than this, approval by the Ministry is required. § 6-2, second paragraph, last sentence. Secondly, all government grants and assets from the students shall benefit the students, see: Section 6-2, first paragraph of the proposal. It would therefore be contrary to the law to take out a profit. After this, the proposal for a new law on early school leave does not confer any right, either for foreign or Norwegian actors, to approve commercial schooling with State aid rights. In other words, the Free School Act is not undermined by the principles deriving from Article XVII of the GATS Agreement. There is therefore no need to negotiate the provisions of the Law on Free Schools which exclude the commercial operation of schools with State aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e977	I thank you for your answer. There is no very good way to debate that we always misunderstand, and especially not after the Council of State began to say 'in my opinion'. I want to follow up on the question a little bit and maybe also try to be a little more specific. It is true that the Private School Act proposes a restriction, namely that it applies to non-commercial actors, but otherwise it is free to do so. Under the current private school law, there are completely different limitations to setting up a private school. Then my question becomes quite specific: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs feel quite sure that with the positions that Norway has put forward, we will prevent foreign commercial players from establishing private schools in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e984	The question is ‘proposals for private school law’, as it says. At that point, I'm perfectly clear. We don't need to take anything extra out in the GATS negotiations in that context. Norway has commercial schools today, but then without State aid. But it's a different issue than the one raised by Reikvam in the question related to the legislative proposal itself. And that's what I've been responding to. I feel sure that the bill we have presented here matches well with the GATS rules, and that it does not trigger any new establishments in Norway. But I want to make it clear that this is what the question is about, cf. the introductory phrase on Rikham’s questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e989	I'll be able to interpret my own question, me too. But let me go on to the question. In the media, several people have spoken out. Among other things, Terje Hansen, Professor of the School of Business, has stated that it is becoming difficult to distinguish between commercial and non-commercial actors due to a network of corporate forms that can be established. This means that a group abroad can establish a school in Norway, which is initially non-commercial, but which, through various transactions, may still be possible to obtain State aid. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs feel absolutely sure and secure that the type of structures that someone suggests will not arise, that we will avoid commercial operators being able to secure state subsidies under Norwegian private school law?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e998	I do not know the design described here, so I dare not take a stand on it above the table. I just want to say that when I have answered the question that I have done, it is precisely because Reikvam has asked on the basis of the private school law. It's not an interpretation. That's the question. If the question was different, I regret that I have not been able to answer it. But that's the point. As a starting point, and with the legislative proposal available, I feel sure that the GATS rules are comprehensive. But as I said, I do not know the other construction that is mentioned. I do not think there is any problem either, but I do not dare to take a stand over the table. That is not the problem either. The problem, as I see it, is the bill presented by the Government, and that it should not lead to commercial schools. When it comes to that question, I'm pretty sure we're completely on track.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1005	We go back to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1018	The question has been postponed until the next question time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1025	This question, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1028	I have the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Finance: ‘The border trade leakage was greater than ever in 2002. Figures based on estimates from Sweden’s Central Statistical Office show that a further 10 billion are added. kr in border trade with Sweden, an increase of 17 pst. Appropriations from the General Organisation of Commerce and Services show that border trade and smuggling cause a loss of revenue for the State in VAT and excise duties of 4.7 billion. kr. What will the Council of State do to reduce border trade leakage?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1037	First, I would like to note that the Government is doing something to reduce border trade. For the second consecutive year, alcohol taxes are reduced. Last year the taxes on beer, wine and spirits went down. From 1 January this year the charges for spirits went down by 10.9 p.m. This was the result of the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party. In recent years, there have been various claims in the media about the extent of border trade and the likely adverse effects of border trade, among others. for the trade activity in border regions against Sweden and the loss of tax revenue for the Norwegian country. It is generally difficult to relate to such information, not least because, for natural reasons, there is considerable uncertainty about the information, particularly in the case of smuggling, which, as I understand, forms part of the estimates to which the representative Hedstrom refers. This uncertainty is an important background for the Government and the Advance Party Group in the budget conciliation in the autumn to agree to set up an expert committee for, among others. to assess the effects on the income of the country of changing charges on goods placed at the border. This sample is now being reduced, and we look forward to the results of the work. Anyone moving across the border can in any event quickly find that border trade is high. Border trade is likely to have increased from 2000 to 2002. Both the Saturday opening of Systembolaget from 1 July 2001 and the strong Norwegian krona have probably contributed to increased border trade. On the other hand, the Norwegian levies on certain goods subject to border trade such as fuel and spirits, as mentioned above, have been substantially reduced in the last two years. This tax reduction and increased risk of buying illegal spirits contributed to the increase in brandy sales at the Vinmonopolet by almost 10 pst. from 2001 to 2002. The combined volume of sales of wine and spirits on the Vinmonopole increased by 4.7 pst. from 2001 to 2002. As regards the scope of the border trade and the possible measures requested by the representative Hedstrom, I believe it is appropriate to wait until that expert group has submitted its assessments by the end of April. In the 2004 draft budget, the Government will assess, in the light of this and the development of fees in Sweden, the need for further reductions in charges on goods placed on the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1050	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I thought was passive. The small tax reductions to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs refers are so insignificant that in practice they do not mean anything. The lead view of the Progress Party has been that we must harmonise these charges every year. That in the budget agreement we only got 10.9 pst., of course, was a compromise. We didn't come anymore. In the evening post today we can read that Göran Persson says that there is now a need to follow-up with significant tax reductions, and he points out that Denmark, among other things, has to follow up. shall reduce the spirits charge by 45 pst. from October of the current year. We also know that the duty-free import quotas in our neighbouring countries will escalate to full EU level by 1 January 2004. One shall not be much to the fortune-teller to predict that all arrows will point upwards, and the border-trade leakage will increase dramatically. [[President clubs]] In the Sem statement, the government says that something will be done about this. [[The President clubs.]] So in addition to these assessments and expert committees that we have had in the past, also in the 1990s: what will happen in practice to help the Norwegian trade and service industry compete with our neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1059	The President will point out that you have to try to keep time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1062	Let me first say that I fully agree with the representative Hedstrøm that further reduction in fees in Sweden obviously presents us with very significant challenges. It will, as he suggested, come to the end of this year, that is, when we are going to have a budgetary procedure for next year. Making an investigation of the consequences, which both the Advance Party and the Government agree, will be fully feasible at that time. But with regard to the other part of the issue, I would like to mention that the budget that the representative Hedstrom and I have been working together has now been working for 15 days. I do not think it would be natural to invite you to a new budgetary procedure right now. It is true, as the representative Hedstrøm says, that the Progress Party prioritised its claims, and the fees went down when it came to the liquor. The representative had probably wanted to move on, but I can comfort Øystein Hedstrom that what he got in addition was such a tight budget that interest rates go down. It could have a positive influence on one of the most important factors here, the dollar price. So I actually think the representative Hedstrom can be quite satisfied with the result he was contributing to producing in the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1069	It must be clear to all who are willing to see that with such significant differences in charges as exist between Norway and neighbouring countries, and when the differences in charges only increase and increase, this can only go one way, regardless of the price of the crown and other elements that the Council of State now withdraws, which may of course have some significance. However, there is another point: unemployment is increasing significantly in Norway. It also does so in Europe, perhaps even higher than here in some countries. But as a rule of thumb, a borderline leakage of NOK 1 billion means the loss of 1000 jobs. So if, based on an estimate, we have a borderline leakage of NOK 10 billion, that means the loss of 10,000 jobs. We know that there are many young people who have an entrance to the labour market – perhaps many of them who do not want a long-term education – in the commercial and service industries. They then meet a closed door in relation to what could have been the option if we had had more trade on the Norwegian side. Does this make the government look at this issue with new eyes?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1076	The unemployment issues are one of the most important things we are now facing. The representative Hedstrom probably remembers what the business demands were for us, and that's where much of the challenge lies. Of those requirements, just a tight budget was one of the most important. Fortunately, the representative Hedstrom has been involved in helping us get that. Now, the most important thing we can do is we've taken. This budget must have time to work, and so far it has only worked for 15 days. I absolutely agree with that moment, but at the same time, I want to make it clear that we have the investigation that we both agreed to carry out, which will form the basis for further addressing the issues. I fully agree with Hedstrom that this is a very, very important challenge we are facing. We also had the opportunity to join in and solve this question. It's less than a month and a half since we negotiated a budget, so we got a change in the budget that I think Hedstrom is satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1085	I have the following questions for the Minister of Culture and the Church: ‘The NRC plans closures of the district offices, but signals so far indicate that the district office of Sogn and Fjordane will remain as a centre of expertise for new Norwegian language. Does the Council of State see that the same argument is valid in Finnmark related to the Sami language?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1094	As a general assembly of Norwegian National Broadcasting, I have received from the board a proposal for the reorganisation of some district offices. Let me first say that the submission from the NRK does not imply that the district office in Finnmark is shut down. The county will still have its own morning broadcasts under editorial responsibility. In any case, I can't see that the district office in Finnmark itself plays a decisive role in the Sami language. This is because the NRK has its own editorial work for Sámi radio and television broadcasts – NRK Sámi Radio. The proposal from the board involves establishing close cooperation between Sámi Radio and the district office in Troms and Finnmark. Sámi Radio succeeds in Karasjok and produces and broadcasts on radio and television in Sami. Radio broadcasts cover news, sports, culture, religious programmes, documentaries and own programmes for young people. The television offer includes children's TV, debates, documentaries every month and school television. Sámi Radio broadcasts more than 1,600 hours a year on radio and about 60 hours on television. It is NRK Sámi Radio that must be seen as a centre of competence for the Sami language, not the district office in Finnmark. The proposal from the NRK to reorganize some district offices has no impact on Sámi Radio.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1103	I thank you for your answer. I have understood from what I have been able to figure out, that there are three changes from the original proposal that the Council of State put down in relation to. One is that Finnmark gets his own morning transmission. The second is that there should be closer cooperation with Sámi Radio and, in addition, a new position should be created, moving from Marienlyst to NRK Finnmark. With background to the changes I'm describing here in relation to NRK Finnmark, what is it that the Council of State found the basis for putting down the foot the last time, while the signals coming so far indicate that she is not willing to do so now?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1112	I have these matters for handling in the department now, and I have not drawn any conclusions, but I would like to point out that I think it is going in the right direction in relation to the district offices. For me, it has always been important that one has an editorial responsibility for his own broadcasts, as is now being maintained in Finnmark. Buskerud, Telemark and Vestfold also get the same thing. In addition, I also found it positive that a stronger NRK Finnmark with three settings, not one, as the representative said. It's simply one in South Varanger and two in Hammerfest. There is a lot of exciting happening in Finnmark, and I think that much of what is happening there should be sent across the country and not just in Finnmark. Finally, I have to consider what I should do as a general meeting in relation to the Governing Board's decision. There is also a weighing-off of how much action I should take in relation to the board's decision. According to the way the NRK is organized, it needs a lot more before I intervene, and so I haven't taken that decision yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1119	Initially, I perceive that two of the positions are purely internal changes, one from Sámi Radio to NRK Finnmark and the other just an internal move between two local offices in Finnmark. So, for the NRK district profile itself. We've seen in a number of cases – I want to draw up the Mehamn accident as an example – how to get local focus on a case that then gets national dimensions. It is clear that I know the examples of my own family, Finnmark, best, but I assume there are such examples from all local offices. At the moment you start to merge offices from different districts, so that you don't have this represented by itself, there are also perspectives related to the county that can be lost in a district perspective. Does the Council of State see that centralisation of that type of function could also contribute to the general centralisation wave? The understanding of districts and the typical – to say – district policy aspect of different policy decisions can become more absent if we get fewer district offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1126	I understand the board's decision and what it says in the NRK, so that one actually combines some administrative settings, but maintains and partly strengthens the journalistic positions. Mehamn accident is a typical example of a matter of national importance, and not just of importance to the county. That journalists are present where things happen is what is important. I also know that the NRK Guide is busy. They actually want to strengthen the presence of journalists, but merge it administratively. And as I said, I haven't drawn any conclusion yet. But I found that the decision that has been made this time to be in a pretty bad way. There has been a great deal better than last autumn's decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1135	This question, from the representative of Mr Inge Ryan to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1138	I had originally asked the question to the Minister of Agriculture, but I am pleased that the Minister of Oil and Energy answers the question. I then have the following question: ‘In Sweden, bioenergy is an important source of energy, which has been heavily invested in recent years. In Norway, there is much more modest investment in this area. Now we are experiencing a significant debate on electricity. In this context, it points out that we need to find different heating modes than traditional currents so that we avoid power shortages in the future. In addition, it is estimated that a greater focus on bioenergy will provide a significant number of jobs. Will the State Council take the initiative to launch a significant bioenergy effort in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1147	The representative, Inge Ryan, addresses a very central and important question, for a large part of heating energy is today based on electricity. It is an important goal of the Government to help turn the consumption of electricity into heating into other energy sources. Therefore, significant efforts are being made to increase the use of bioenergy in Norway. The initiative takes place through Enova’s management of the Energy Fund and their objectives. The aim is that by 2010 we will have 4 TWh of increased availability of waterborne heat based on new renewable energy sources, heat pumps and waste heat. In Enova’s 2003 action plan, Enova has set at 100 million. kr to ‘Main programme heat’. The focus is not on bioenergy in particular, but on generally environmentally friendly heat production. This is done to ensure that local conditions determine the choice of energy source and technological solution. However, the bulk of this investment is expected to go to bioenergy. In 2001, the amounts of aid for heat production and distribution were around the current level and bioenergy projects received 64 pst. of this aid, i.e. That's 70 million. kr. In October 2002, the Ministry of Oil and Energy presented ‘The Strategy for the Development of Waterborne Heat 2002’. It presents the existing instruments to increase the use of waterborne heat and identifies some barriers to the development of district and local heating networks. The development of waterborne heat and distribution systems is not an objective in itself, but an important prerequisite for making use of, for example: bioenergy. It's set for 2003 at $15 million. on the Ministry of Agriculture's budget for a specific bioenergy investment. An action plan for these means has now been established. The main focus of this action plan is ‘Fuel deliveries and value chains based on agricultural raw materials’. In addition, the Government will in a short time introduce a subsidy scheme for the implementation of reasonable energy saving and energy conversion, targeted at private households. This is a mechanism designed to stimulate the use of environmentally friendly sources of heating which do not rely on direct use of electrical energy and other energy efficiency-enhancing measures. The goal is to achieve an energy conversion that makes us less dependent on the hydropower than is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1162	I thank you for your answer. I want to point out at least three reasons why I have been busy with bioenergy for many years. First of all, the situation is that we have to get rid of some of the panel furnaces. Power is a very expensive quality. Using electricity for heating, as we've been accustomed to in Norway, is something we have to get away from if we're going to have an energy policy for the future that's sustainable. The second reason I'm concerned with bioenergy is that it's an environmentally friendly energy. Of what you take out of the woods, the gas will in any case go up in the air, whether you burn it or it rots naturally. And the third reason that takes me in particular is that Inland-Norway today has a lot of work to do with it. Hedmark, Uppland and Internal Trøndelag – to mention some areas – have significant challenges in relation to relocating. If you focus more actively on bioenergy, I think it will give you a significant number – actually up to a thousand – of jobs. It's done calculations. Only for Trøndelag is it a potential if you exploit it to a greater extent. Therefore, I hope that the Government will place greater emphasis on this than it has. I agree that it is a bet, but I would have liked a much stronger bet in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1175	Inge Ryan mentioned three points as justification for the introduction of bioenergy. I agree with all three points. Everyone is relevant and everyone is important. I would like to mention, as an example, Agder Energia and Agder-Telemark Forest Society, which through cooperation is developing the ‘Value chain from forest to finished heat’, as they call it. This cooperation has specifically led to a planned briquette production plant as well as two planned bio-fuel plants with district heating, in Arendal and in Risør. These biofuels shall burn briquettes from the briquette production plant. The briquettes are based on raw material from wood processing industries in the Agder region and Enova has granted investment aid to this plant. The cooperative structure between forest industries on the one hand and the energy company as a supplier industry on the other is very interesting. One already sees results from this in the form of new planned projects and thus also new jobs. Both environmentally and employment-oriented, this is very interesting and also shows the way forward for other parts of our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1184	In conclusion, I would like to say that we in SV are at least very interested in being in a dialogue if the government wants to increase the investment in bioenergy. There are so many advantages to it, based on the three reasons that I mentioned instead. We've actually seen a much stronger bet in the years to come than what is today. We see the escalation of bioenergy that has occurred in the 1990s being modest in relation to the potential that lies there and in relation to the enormous opportunities that this offers, both for good, environmentally sound development and for employment in District Norway. I'm glad that the Council of State has a positive approach to this, but I wish we had the opportunity to bet something more, that it would have been a greater boost, as well as leave it as for example. Sweden has done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1193	I think it's a significant potential for increased use of bioenergy. I would like to stress that the measures of 4 TWh increased access to waterborne heat are to be seen as a minimum measure. The potential is significantly greater. I know that the Minister of Agriculture is very committed to this, and that he has made significant priorities within his budget in order to achieve this. I think we're going to have a good cooperation – and take advantage of this. I also believe that the current situation we have had this autumn and winter, in a way, has paved the way for a different thinking. There are already clear indications that people looking for alternative energy sources have seen bioenergy as an interesting alternative. And I would like to cooperate both with SV and with the rest of the Stortinget on how we can exploit this significant potential for Norwegian energy supply in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1206	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘Jusprofessor Anders Bratholm has called for doctors to be able to use organs for the deceased if the deceased himself has not said no to donation. How does the Council of State come forward with such a proposal, in particular given the fact that several dozen patients die each year in a transplant queue in Norway because of the fact that there are still dozens of patients dying each year in a transplant queue in Norway? lack of organs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1215	In the light of the development of transplant surgery and the major lack of organs for transplantation, we clearly need to work actively to improve access to organs so that patients' lives can be saved. The question, however, is how this should be done. Organ donation is a sensitive theme, which must be handled with identity. It is very important that patients and their relatives have confidence in healthcare management in this context. The starting point of the Transplant Act is that organs or other biological material may be taken out for transplantation from the deceased who has given prior written or oral consent to it. In such cases, I believe that the expressed will of the deceased should be respected, even where the relatives oppose the intervention. This is also the result of the law's preparatory work, where it is, among other things. is expressed that if the survivors oppose transplant withdrawals despite the positive declaration of will of the deceased, it should be possible to build on the wishes of the deceased. However, I will consider how this can be clarified in an appropriate way. As a rule, there will be no express declaration of will by the deceased. In such situations, the law has to assess whether the deceased or his loved ones have spoken against organ donation, or whether there is reason to believe that the intervention would be contrary to the life-view of the deceased or of his loved one. Finally, ‘other specific reasons’ may be spoken for non-intervention. The law provides here for a discretionary assessment. The preparatory work states that on a case-by-case basis, it is necessary to carry out the studies permitting the situation with regard to the position of the deceased and his loved one in relation to transplantation. Today, hospital practice is that relatives are always asked for consent to organ donation. This is done out of respect for the difficult situation of the relatives and in order to ensure trust. There are many relatives who oppose the intervention. A question of organ donation is, of course, painful and difficult to deal with in a situation where one has lost one of its closest, and it can easily be perceived as an additional strain. Most of the relatives who say no have probably not thought about the matter in advance, and then it may be difficult to take inward what meaning organ donation can actually have for another and completely alien human being. The general rule must be that the will of the deceased is respected. I believe, however, that it is not possible to ignore the relatives' views on the issue of organ withdrawal, even if the deceased have not taken a stand. As far as possible, relatives should be heard if it is not known that the deceased have expressed a definite willingness to donate organs after their death. The Foundation's organ donation, which aims to improve access to organs for transplantation, is also of the opinion that the relatives should participate in the decision. The foundation does not want to go as far as Professor Bratholm suggests, because this can affect the population. It is vital for the transplanting activity that we have both the trust and understanding of patients and relatives in the procurement of organs from the dead. Therefore, in order to increase access to organs for transplantation, it is important to reach out with information and better communication about these activities. In cooperation with the Foundation organ donation, the Ministry of Health has spent a lot of resources on a comprehensive donor card campaign. On the donor cards, which are located in all medical offices and pharmacies, each can declare that they wish to give away their organs after their death.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1230	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer, which I regard as negative in relation to the proposal made by Professor Anders Bratholm. In the evening post on 30 December 2002, reference is made to an opinion of the Minister for Health: ‘The hospitals have a practice where they ask the relatives, but the Minister of Health believes there is room in the law to go beyond this.’ Is it in this opinion that hospitals can carry out organ withdrawals when the deceased has not expressed the opposite – without contacting the relatives, and if not the relatives themselves take the initiative to say no?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1242	The law is based on a so-called presumed consent. It is not a direct requirement in the law to ask the relatives, but the general rule is that if a will from the deceased is expressed, it should be respected. In practice, the relatives are asked and respected, even though the deceased have shown no vision. As I see it, Professor Bratholm's proposal will be to disengage the relatives from the question of donation. As we have a situation in Norway where so many of the relatives actually make a reservation, I don't think it would be wise to go in for such a solution, because it can create greater resistance and weaken the trust in the hospital's activities in this area. I think it's a much better strategy that we do with the Foundation organ donation, to focus our search light on communication around this – to get as many people as possible to decide on this question in advance with their relatives, and to organise the business much better in hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1251	I thank you again for the answer. I perceive that hospitals do not do anything unlawful if they do not ask the relatives. The lack of organs is well-known in Norway, as in several other European countries, and as has been said, dozens of patients die each year. Today we have 27 donor hospitals in the country. Does the Minister of Health think that it could be a thought to consider extending the number of donor hospitals to include several central hospitals and larger local hospitals with emergency preparedness for surgery?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1258	According to the information I'm sitting with, we have 27 approved donor hospitals. I consider the implementation of a donor-responsible system in these hospitals to be quite important in order to achieve good coordination of the administration of organs. I am not satisfied with the pace at which this donor-responsible doctor scheme is being implemented. Therefore, in the governance document of regional health companies for this year, I have required a donor-responsible doctor scheme to be established in all donor hospitals by 1 March 2003. I have also assumed that resources are earmarked for this task in individual donor hospitals, with particular emphasis on training and attitude among relevant staff in all approved donor hospitals in the region. In each of the donor hospitals, a coordinator shall ensure that potential donors are identified and there shall be a preparedness to follow-up in relation to situations where organ donation may be relevant. It may be known to be present at all times of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1279	This question lapses.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1286	‘In Decision No 93 unanimously decided on 3 December 2002 to implement immediate measures for crisis centres with major economic problems and to provide the Government with a solution for those crisis centres that lose state aid. The Prime Minister also said in his New Year speech that crisis centres will receive more money in 2003. Why does the Council of State not want to follow up the unanimous decision and when does the Prime Minister’s promise to the crisis centres take place?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1293	Let me start by clarifying how the crisis response grant scheme works. Responsibility for the crisis centres is anchored in the municipalities. The Host Municipality has a special responsibility to ensure that the crisis centre has an adequate budget. Once the host municipality has adopted the budget, local grants cover 50 pst. and the rest represent the government as earmarked grants to the host municipality. This grant scheme has remained more or less unchanged since the early 1980s. Most recently, in the context of the 2003 State Budget, the size of the budget gave its agreement that it should be continued in 2003. The municipalities report their needs to the county council, which together communicates them to the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. As you know, the grant scheme for the crisis measures is an estimate. This means that if the municipalities grant more money to the crisis centres, it automatically follows more earmarked funds from the state. As a result, the allocation of emergency measures is often adjusted in the context of the revised national budget or in the case of ageing. Only around the middle of April this year will it be clear how much the state will deliver. Experience shows that municipalities take their responsibility for crisis centres seriously. Every year, as long as we've had the current grant scheme, we've seen the appropriations rise, and the gross increase for the crisis centres in the last two years was 6 pst, respectively. and 10 pst. There is therefore every reason to believe that we will have an increase in 2003. This does not mean that all crisis centres have a simple economic situation – on the contrary, I record that many are struggling hard. A study carried out on behalf of the Ministry of Children and the Family states that the appropriations allocated to the crisis centres must be increased significantly if everyone is to have sufficient quality. In order to meet the Storting's wish for immediate action, I have asked the county councillors to monitor whether there are significant changes in the appropriations made by the municipalities, county councils or other major contributors to the crisis centres this year. I have asked the statesmen to report this back as soon as possible, as I will already have a meeting with the local authorities' Central Association to discuss the economy of the crisis centres on 27 January. If it turns out that one or more crisis centres have reduced their budget, I have to discuss with the KS, possibly also with the host municipality for the crisis response, what can be done in the current year. There is also a need to amend the current grant scheme, as the current scheme of earmarked grants is not predictable for the crisis centres. In conclusion, I would like to say that, already during the last Bondevik government, we were dealing with the situation of violent women through our action plan Violence against women. We are now rolling this, many measures have been implemented, and during the year we will launch a new action plan. In particular, work will focus on strengthening prevention, including: by improving the treatment provision of men who commit violence against their loved ones, and by improving the care of children who are either themselves exposed to or witnessed to domestic violence, and measures to improve the situation of foreign women and minority women. Furthermore, through the announced amendment of the grant scheme, we will work in particular to strengthen the emergency provision for women at risk of violence, including crisis centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1312	I would first like to thank you for your answer. Last year there were about 58 000 women visiting the crisis centres. Unfortunately, there has been no decrease in the number of women in need of emergency care. Crisis centres are an important low threshold offer, which is the only one in its kind, and for which there is an enormous need. The grant scheme is stable and unchanged, but in the new year the Prime Minister said that the economic situation of the crisis centres should be strengthened. When you want to go in and look at the grant scheme, it must be in this that not next year, but this year, will receive financial support. Will this be revised?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1321	First, I want to say that the Prime Minister said the Government would strengthen the crisis centers. That's right. In particular, I think the Prime Minister was concerned about the work we are doing in terms of enhancing the competence of crisis centres. This is also important. Here we have a work going on through a collaboration with the KS, but also directly with the municipalities. In the context of the budgetary process, I am also going to make a strong financial contribution to the local authorities giving more to the crisis centres. Here we have a great potential, also because some municipalities do not actually pay to the crisis centres. As the representative knows, there was no money with this decision. This means that the state alone cannot fully take over the financing of crisis centres. It's the municipalities that are the starting point. When we see what's happening and what the situation is, we also have to get the municipalities to strengthen the crisis centres. Then we have some exciting measures where we also strengthen crisis centres this year. Then I think about what we do through the Competence Centre for Victim Work to ensure the build-up of skills that started last year, with money from the action plan against violence against women. And this we want to strengthen further.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1330	Many crisis centres are struggling economically, as the Council of State said. Many crisis centres have been — and are — threatened with closure, and only voluntary efforts, such as bingo and voluntary gifts from business, have led crisis centres to continue their operations. This is, in the long run, an unsustainable situation for the crisis centres. This wears on those who work there, also in relation to that, for example. last summer, closed crisis centres met due to the economic situation. As the Council of State said now, many municipalities have also withdrawn from the crisis centres because of the economic situation, because this is not a task required by law. Governments will follow this up with the municipalities. But once again, when the Prime Minister goes out in his New Year's speech and says to support the economic situation of the crisis centres, it must also mean that the state should go in with more financial resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1337	Once again, I would like to remind you that the State budget has been set up this year. Just as fully we come back to Stortinget, as I said in my main post, when we later know what the municipalities are doing. We have had this discussion on the budget every year. There is little predictability for the crisis centres. It is unsustainable that uncertainty is created, and that every year you have to feel uncertain as to whether you get enough money from the municipalities. It has fallen into place every year so far. My hope and my faith is that it will also do so this year, hopefully with even more funds. That is precisely why we have gone to the step of saying that we will come up with a completely new financing mechanism from 2004. We can't have this unsustainable situation. But with the information I have per person. Today, I have no reason to take any action right now. So far, I don't have a complete overview. I'll get it in a few days. I also do not have an overview of the problems of the crisis centres themselves. That's why we don't really know if it's a crisis, or the extent of it. We have it from the media and the debates we have had there with the crisis centres – there are certainly some who have bigger problems than others. When the county survey is available, I want to know something about the need and where it is possible to do something. Then we come back with a matter for Stortinget. I expect that it will be in the context of revision, in the usual way, when we deal with the economy of crisis centres for 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1357	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. Question 12 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1366	This question, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1369	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The day’s fisheries legislation is based on the principle of landing obligation for caught catches, for example: reporting. In relation to the royal crab, it is a principle of discard, and it is punishable to take such catch to land. This leads to a lack of proper records of the size and spread of the crab population. Will the Council of State take the initiative to amend the provision so that the king crab is treated in the same way as other species of catch, thereby enabling good reporting statistics?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1378	I would like to make it clear at the outset that Norway does not have a general ban on discards in all fisheries. In the Regulation of 10 October 1989 on mesh size, by-catch, conservation time and minimum dimensions, etc. when catching fish and herring, it appears that the discards of dead or dying fish of specified species are prohibited. In the case of king crabs, the representatives of the giant Bastisen ask why not all catches of king crabs are landed, as this will allow good reporting statistics. To this I would point out, first of all, that only a small proportion of the catch that fishermen get from king crabs, both in the direct fishing for king crabs and as a by-catch in other fisheries, has commercial value. A landing requirement will therefore lead to significant additional work for fishermen for whom they are not compensated. I would also like to stress that the management of royal crabs is based on the principle of sustainable management. A landing order for all catches, where most of the catch does not have commercial value and will therefore only be slaughtered, is not in accordance with the main principles of Norwegian management of marine resources. In addition, the royal crab has a high survival capacity in relation to other fish during restocking. In the regulation of catches in 2002, all fishermen were obliged to record all catches of king crabs taken on board. This means that all catches taken during the fishing season are recorded, even if they are set off again. I can inform you that fishermen will also be required to register in 2003. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that the Marine Research Institute, Department Tromsø, is fishing for its own research and is responsible for the conservation of royal crabs. This research fish is part of the basis for the population calculation of the royal crab. I do not find any basis for instructing Norwegian fishermen to land all catches of king crabs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1395	That's kind of weird. You put a yarn link in the sea. It's full of king crabs – hundreds of them. You take that link on board. It is impossible to register each crab. You take that link on land and up on the berth to pick out the crabs. So you're guilty of punishing that crab by landing it and taking it out of the yarn. Does the Council of State think it's a fair arrangement? And isn't it time to treat the royal crab the same way you treat other fish?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1402	It has since the royal crab was introduced into the sea by the Murman coast, gradually building up a population in this area, a population that we also see spreading westward. Fishermen in this area experience the royal crab as a problem, as a by-catch when they are fishing for other fish. To get a sustainable management of the royal crab, it's important both to know the size of the population and to get a sensible management of the population that's there. The by-catch that a sheep can't take advantage of commercially. That's why it's important that we register the population that exists, so that we can continue working to get sensible management. We are radically increasing the tax from 2002 on the capture of king crabs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1409	I did not get an answer to the question. When you get a link full of royal crabs, and you take it ashore, you're guilty of punishment. The gentleman can make a fine for taking the link on land, on a quay, and picking out the royal crabs. Whether it is registered or not remains to be seen. But isn't it a little strange that you can get king crabs on a jet in the middle of Finnmark and Bjørn Island? You also get king crabs far south on the coast. Isn't it time to get a landing obligation on the same footing as other fish, so to speak, to get a grip on the spread of royal crabs, and also to know where it is? Then you can set a limit. It seems to me that the whole system is out of control, and there's only one scientist who's researching king crabs today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1418	We don't need a landing obligation to record and figure out the extent and extent of the king crab. This government has taken the initiative to undertake extensive research in this area in order to record the extent and not least the impact of the king crab on the ecological system. That's why it's granted closer to 5 million. kr for this work this year, while having the opportunity to catch twice as many royal crabs as you had in 2002. This means that we're increasing the use of the resource, while paying great attention to the fact that we're going to know the extent of the king crab and where it is. This is happening in close cooperation with Russia. In relation to that cooperation, we have also agreed that we should work with a Western border where we will put in place further measures regarding the royal crab.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1428	I will be asked the following questions by the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘Tourists in the health sector must work two hours more per year. week than shiftworkers. The Equality Ombudsman concluded in 1996 that Section 46 No. In fact, 3 and 4 act in such a way that one sex is unfairly placed worse than the other and, therefore, discrimination is considered to be contrary to the Equality Act. Amendment of the laws is necessary to remedy this discrimination. How will the Government ensure that this discrimination ceases?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1437	The issue of equality of three-part turns and full-time shift work in the Working Environment Act has long been under assessment. The case has, among other things: have been discussed in Stortinget during the examination of two Document No. 8-proposal for equalisation of three-part turns and continuous shiftwork. One proposal was supported by a majority consisting of the Labour Party and the Right. The majority pointed, among other things, to on the economic impact of the proposal and that this was a matter for the social partners to agree on through collective bargaining. The second proposal was not dealt with in substance, but both the Labour Party and the Right nevertheless expressed their opposition to the proposal. The departments concerned have worked closely with the matter at administrative level over a longer period of time and through various governments. However, no government has made any concrete legislative proposals. There has also been a tendering round with a view to carrying out an external investigation into the impact of such a working time reform. Five central research institutions were invited to submit tenders for such an investigation. All were rejected because it would not be possible to provide a clear answer to the consequences of a reduction in working time for turnaround workers in the health sector. I would like to refer to the ongoing work of the Labour Law Committee, where a review of the entire Working Environment Act is being carried out with a view to presenting a proposal for a new law in December 2003. Working time is a central element of this sample’s mandate, and the issue of how to regulate different working time arrangements, including issues relating to different rotational arrangements, will, of course, be assessed by the legislative committee. I do not find that an initiative in this area is so urgent that it is right to advance the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1448	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I interpret the last thing he said, as very positive, namely that the work now being done by the Labour Law Committee will clearly mean that in the future there will be no such discrimination. One thing is the history, but I believe that all parties have a clear responsibility for the proper conduct of equality. We know it's about large groups of women who work hard, who work hard. That's why we also think they have to get the same protection as other workers get. But once again, I would like to challenge the Council of State in a concrete way: is it that the mandate of the Labour Law Committee ensures that this theme will be the focus and that it will be part of the basis on which the Council of State will decide?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1457	With regard to the latter, I can confirm that these are issues that the Labour Law Committee will address. However, I would like to make it clear that I do not want to distort the conclusions of the legislative committee in any way. Gender equality needs to be fully addressed, but we need to be careful not to draw too far-reaching conclusions about the scale of the problem. It is important to be aware that three-part turns and all-continuous shifts are not automatically comparable forms of work; there is a need for a concrete assessment in relation to the individual tour plans and the individual job situation. At the same time, it is very important that we do not intervene in this work, as in other areas, in matters falling under the responsibility of the parties in tariff negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1464	It will sometimes be that the social partners may not follow up on what is the intention of the law. If we then believe that clear legislative changes are necessary in order to follow up what we all have in mind, I hope that the Government and the Council of State will be willing to do so. As far as I am aware, there should have been a partial adjustment before Christmas from the Labour Law Committee. Was this topic then affected, or is there something that will come later from the selection page?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1471	Working time issues will be highlighted in the final vote of the legislative committee. Let me also clarify, as I said at the outset, that it is clear that equality is to be fully respected in the law we have. What I want to add is that it is not clear to what extent this issue implies a general legislative change in order to ensure equality. But we are going to take it up in relation to the position of the Labour Law Committee, while at the same time we have to do it in a way that does not interfere with the free negotiating rights of the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1476	Question 15 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1483	‘Hetmark peaks accident statistics in traffic. At the same time, we know that the level of investment and operating grants per year. km of road in Hedmark is of the lowest in the country. Road quality is essential for road safety. Both Rv 2 and Rv 3 as well as E6 through the county should now be given priority next to bets on trains and buses. In addition, domestic businesses depend on a better provision of transport services. Will the Council of State now do something in the short and long term to improve the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1490	Hedmark has seen a large increase in the number of accidents in 2002. This is worrying, and the Road Directorate will assess whether there are particular reasons for this and whether special measures should be taken. Although Hedmark was the country with the highest fatalities in 2002, accident statistics for the four-year period 1998–2001 show that Hedmark counties are close to the national average for accidents and fatalities in traffic. In the case of E6, Rv 2 and Rv 3 in Hedmark, there are both many accidents and many fatalities, but measured against the traffic being closed on these roads, the accident situation is not worse than on other corresponding road sections. But any serious accident is one accident too much. It is true that Hedmark is low both in terms of resources for operation and maintenance on the national road network and in terms of level of investment. Means of operation and maintenance are allocated according to calculations based on actual need. The reason why Hedmark is low is that the operation and maintenance of the road network is relatively reasonable. In 2003, the country-wide benefit is around 430 million. to specific road safety measures. This is an increase compared to 2002 and implies a follow-up rate in relation to the State Road Service Action Programme for the period 2002–2005 of 51 pst. after two years. The Ministry of Transport attaches great importance to the systematic targeting of road safety measures on the most accident-affected routes. Furthermore, the Ministry will emphasise the high priority given to road safety measures during the rest of the planning period. In order to reduce the most serious accidents, the Government considers that a combination of measures must be envisaged, both in the form of new road installations and measures on the existing road network, behavioural measures, training, control and penalties. The development of four fields on high-traffic routes could have a significant accident reduction effect. I further point out that the State Road Service is testing the middle parts of two- and three-field roads, as well as other measures on high-traffic roads. Road safety audits are part of the work of analysing accident situations, including: as a basis for assessing immediate action on the individual routes. Planning is in progress to extend today's E6 in Hedmark to four-field roads. There is also a planning of new Rv 2 from Akershus border to Kongsvinger and new Rv 3 in Løten and Elverum municipalities. The government needs to return to the priorities of the 2006-2015 national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1505	I thank you for the answer, which in my view is a good analysis of the situation. I think the Minister for Transport should be in favour of it. There is no reason now to raise a debate on whether it is more serious in Hedmark than elsewhere in the country. The 2002 figures, in isolation, give Hedmark's share of signals to all of us that here we have a lot to pick up in the areas pointed out by the Minister of Transport. My question is, when you get such numbers in the Ministry of Transport, does it make an impression in addition to the plans that are there, and could you actually now imagine providing some of the plans? Especially in the case of Rv2, Rv3 and E6 we see that this is very related to the standard on these roads. There would have been a lot to pick up if you had been able to supply some of the plans in the department. What I think the Council of States should respond to and get on the road, is whether there is – it is probably soon enough – the possibility of putting extra pressure on this. Is there any chance that this will be forced for Hedmark's part?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1512	First of all, I want to say that it makes the impression when I see that numbers of accidents – not just because numbers are numbers, but because I have now participated in several memory collections for survivors and relatives after traffic accidents and for those who are injured in traffic. And it makes a huge impression. It clearly tells me that we cannot accept that we have serious accidents. This means that we have to work consciously and with a focus on road safety, as is the case in Hedmark. In 2002, Hedmark had a year that looked very dark in relation to road safety. We can't settle for that. We also experienced that Sogn and Fjordane had a good year, and we can't settle down on that either, because there may be random variations. We have to keep looking at what we can do to improve road safety. The Road Directorate is now also analysing the situation in Hedmark to see if there are any special measures that we need to take to improve road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1517	I record again that we agree on the situation. I also believe that we are very much in agreement on the means to be used. But I will venture the claim that for the domestic part, Hedmark and Uppland will be the states where you could primarily make a lot of money to repair the roads in relation to road safety. But not only that, one would also have a win-win situation in relation to the fact that, in fact, the action that businesses are specifically calling for in the home country, namely better public transport, better freight transport on trains and better roads for the transport of goods. It has always been in the Sem Declaration and the Government's intention to help business with this kind of structural means, and it would make it a win-win situation for the domestic economy, both in terms of road safety and economics. Does the Council of State see that such a win-win situation will arise for the hinterland if some road plans are now provided for Hedmark and Uppland?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1522	I look at all projects that provide a better accessibility and a better road safety situation, as a win-win situation. It is so absolute in the home country and in this region, but it also applies to other regions. We've already started a lot of work on E6 in Eastfold just for that reason. It will serve business, and it will not least make everyday life safer for those who live there. These are analyses that we need to do all the time, including in Hedmark, to see if there are opportunities to move forward more quickly in relation to some actions. I expect the representative to know that I can't comment here and now on what's going to be in the budget, even if that could be desirable, of course. I have to come back to that when the budget is presented, but both the Road Directorate and I place great emphasis on how we see the main challenges in terms of road safety and accessibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1533	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In winter, a reduction in the speed of a number of road sections has also been introduced in Hedmark without clear results to the effect that this has had a positive effect on the reduction of the number of accidents last year. It turns out, on the other hand, that Hedmark is the largest body of fatal accidents. Does not the Council of State see options other than reduced winter speed limit to reduce the number of accidents?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1542	This is probably a road safety issue in Hedmark. It shows that it's an important question. There have been many accidents there in 2002. Hedmark was the country with most fatal accidents in 2002. However, there are considerable variations in the number of deaths in the counties from one year to another, and in 2001 Hedmark was among the counties that had been killed. Accident statistics for the four-year period 1998–2001 show that Hedmark County is close to the national average for accidents and fatalities in traffic. Speed is indisputably very crucial to the extent and severity of accidents. In general, if the average speed on a road drops by 5 pst, the number of injuries is reduced by 10 pst. and the number killed by 20 pst. Tests at winter speed limits in 1998-99 showed that when the winter speed limit was reduced from 80 to 70 km/h, the speed level on the road decreased by 1 to 8 km/h depending on driving conditions and depending on the speed level initially. The speed level dropped most on those roads where the speed level was high. This indicates that there is a clear positive effect of wintertime limits. Furthermore, the roads in Hedmark, where the winter speed limit has been introduced, also meet the Road Service criteria for permanent separation to the speed limit of 70 km/h, but since the main gravity of the accidents takes place in winter, it was chosen to separate with the winter speed limit instead of permanent separation. However, speed reductions are only one of a number of measures that need to be implemented to reduce the number of injuries. In order to reduce the most serious accidents, it is necessary to provide for a combination of measures, both in the form of new road installations and measures on the existing road network, including the development of quadruple roads, behavioural measures, training, control and penalties. In Hedmark, for example, there is an ongoing crisis. planning to extend the current E6 to four-field road. I also refer to the fact that the State Road Service is testing the middle parts of two- and three-field roads as well as other measures on high-traffic roads. Between 20 and 30 pst. the traffic fatalities and injuries are between 15 and 25 years of age. In 2003, therefore, action against youth accidents will be central to road safety work, including improvements in driver training, increased emphasis on awareness raising and better control of Russian cars. Among other things, this year’s Russians will be offered an evening open traffic control station for the technical control of Russian cars, and a voluntary block regime for the safety classification of Russian cars will be in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1553	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which is almost the same as I received a year ago, namely on 16 January last year. That's why I'm asking the question again now, I'm very in doubt if reduced speed has really helped. It may be okay with the winter speed limit – it may be – but when the winter speed limit creates irritation, queues and dangerous pass-bys with near-accident accidents, or perhaps accidents, I put a question mark on it. There has to be a logic behind setting the speed limit, and I'm still very critical of whether the action really helps. The Council of State now mentions a number of other things, and that is enough of the things I prefer to do, at least in addition – both in the form of new road installations and measures on existing road networks. Can the Council of State respond a little more profoundly to such plans? That's what Hedmark needs, i.e. new roads and repair of existing roads, among other things. Rv 3, Rv 2, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1560	With regard to the concrete measures implemented each year, there are, of course, budgetary processes each year. That is why we have to deal with the current budget each year, while at the same time planning for new periods when we are dealing with the national transport plan. It will also be done here. With regard to the winter traffic limits and to what extent they are respected, this is a fundamental issue, namely the issue of the attitude of drivers, how we can create better attitudes and respect for traffic rules in drivers. We must always use the available measures that can help solve the problems we have. Speed limits are a challenge in this way. Speed is a contributing cause of accidents. We have to do something about that, and that's why we have to set the speed limits in some places. We have to help create attitudes in the drivers so that the speed limits are respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1567	I thank you once again for your answer. Of course, this with respect is important. But when we know that over 10,000 drivers lost their note last year – an increase of 40 pst. – I have some doubts as to whether respect for speed limits will be increased when you, for example. on row 2 reduces the speed limit from 80 to 70. So I'll go back a little bit to what a road means. A road is not just a path, it's a life's nerve for a society. If I remember correctly, the Council of State was on a truck trip last year up the Østerdalen. When you look at the bad way that Rv 3 really is, both for those who live there permanently, and for those who feed and are to carry goods back and forth and in and out of a relatively pig-like district, I hope that the Council of State is aware – and I am convinced that she is – of the importance of a road. A road isn't just a road, it's a lifesaver for a district. A life-blooded nerve must also be accepted in society – and winter-time limits are not the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1576	I can assure you that I am familiar with the experience of many truck drivers when they run along Rv 3 in particular. We have to respect that, and I have to respect that. It is clear that it is a challenge for us to constantly be able to find the right use of the money to achieve the objectives of accessibility and road safety at the same time. I can also assure you that I have traveled very much in the country. There are many roads that are a big challenge, so this is not the only one. This gives us a challenge in terms of prioritising money use – every year – in order to ensure good accessibility and road safety. But I would also like to conclude by making sure that I definitely have Hedmark in mind when we are going to work on both road safety work and the next national transport plan period.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1588	‘The health protection centre was able to report highly contaminated air in Oslo on 8 and 9 January 2003. The Authority’s recommendations state that asthmatics and persons with severe cardiovascular or respiratory disorders should not be outdoors in such highly contaminated areas. Eastern parts of Oslo Centre and Groruddalen had such levels of pollution. What measures will the Council of State take to prevent asthmatics and other sick people from being involved? air pollution?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1595	Last week there was a period of cold, standing air in the eastern parts of the Oslo Centre and the lower part of the Groruddalen. Locally very high levels of NO2 were measured. This has also happened earlier, but this time the episode lasted longer and the levels were extra high. High values of suspended particulate matter from car exhaust gas and fire were also measured. I see this as a serious situation for those who live in the area, especially for people with respiratory diseases or cardiovascular diseases. Local authorities with primary responsibility for local air quality, including identifying measures to improve the situation, are – and should be, in the Government’s view. This responsibility and the instruments at the disposal of the municipality are strengthened by the Government through new legislation now last autumn. Under the new regulation on limit values, the municipality is the local air quality pollution authority. But even though the municipality had to sit in the driver's seat, the government and I are concerned that the state and the municipality should take responsibility together. I do not want a situation where the state prevents the implementation of immediate local measures that work. Such obstacles must be cleared by the road, and I will meet the Transport Agency in Oslo as early as tomorrow to discuss how we can follow this up. My goal is for Oslo and the state to agree before the next winter season on a contingency package that can be implemented next time such an acute pollution situation occurs, so that we don't start over with the analysis from the beginning. At the same time, I would like to stress that long-term exposure of lower levels of pollution also harms people's health. Local air pollution must therefore be primarily controlled by measures that have a lasting effect — not just emergency measures for a small number of days with particularly high levels of pollution. This is an important reason why the state and Oslo are now cooperating on the forced development of public transport in Oslo, so that the possibilities of opting out the car get better. Among other things, the Oslo T-Bahn system is being upgraded for billions of money in a split layer between the state and the municipality, such as: includes the development of the T-banaging. Furthermore, investment shall be made in new local trains in Oslo/Akershus, and the Government has forced the development of new double tracks between Asker and Sandvika. Many long-term measures should be considered, including: emission requirements for public purchases of bus transport, increased emphasis on air quality in land planning and restrictions to limit car traffic. Oslo has already introduced significant parking restrictions in the inner city and lower speed limit in the city core. In addition, the municipality of Oslo has the opportunity to use stronger instruments than it does today to reduce the heavy-duty use in the metropolitan area, which will be an important measure against particulate matter. I am therefore optimistic about the possibilities of reducing both the ordinary and the more exceptional problems of air pollution in Oslo. I would like to remind you that we have actually reduced the emissions of NO2 from car traffic by 30 pst. the last decade. This decrease in air pollution must continue, in close interaction between the State and local authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1610	I thank you for the answer, and I thank you for the commitment to improved air in Oslo. Last week it was measured air quality that was similar to the state of Mexico City. Last year we had conditions that looked like Paris. So we've seen that the levels are getting worse, and we've seen that the period is going to be longer. There has been talk of launching more immediate measures, e.g.: was mentioned in the Evening Post today a time-lapse of the charge in the bombing. It has been mentioned that on the worst days people will only be allowed to drive every other day – the ones with odd numbers last in the car number one day, and the ones with even numbers the other day. That immediate action is required on the car side to avoid anything like this, there should be no doubt about it. Does the Council agree that there is a choice of values we face when we are going to choose whether to lock in the cars or children and sick people when it is cold?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1619	It's clear that there's a choice of value – that's what it is – and there's a choice of value far beyond it, because it's like small children to be transported, to say it like that. It's a difficult choice of values, because there's a lot of people that can get into conflict with each other. It's not just saying that it's the drivers against the kids, because it's not that simple. We've had particularly poor air quality, and we've heard of comparisons with Mexico City and other very polluted cities. Now, luckily, you've compared on special days, and we don't have it evenly. But that doesn't mean we're not going to take it seriously. Every winter we stand here in Stortinget, about this time, and discuss the same thing. I am concerned that next year we will have come a little further, that we will then have an opportunity to implement immediate measures that are desirable and that will have an effect. I am concerned that we should have measures that have an effect – if not, we are equally far – and that we need to think about long-term measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1628	I fully agree with you lately that we need to think about long-term measures. I also agree that local authorities have the primary responsibility to address the fight against local air pollution. At the same time, we have adopted national targets for improving air quality and combating air pollution in Norway, and it must also be the responsibility of the State to participate properly and contribute to achieving these objectives. In view of the long-term measures, my final question is: Will transport measures, which prioritise improving air quality in the major cities, be given a higher priority than what we have seen achieved today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1635	This government has already been actively involved in this area, as we show that we want to give priority to public transport. We believe it is important to invest in good public transport solutions in Oslo, because it can help us get a larger share that travels collectively, and a smaller share that travels by car, thus contributing to this air quality effect. It is that we have periods of the year that are more difficult than others, and it shows that winter is a challenge for us in this area. Now there are other elements that also play in relation to air quality. In the case of NO2, car traffic is important. We have particulate matter, which comes a little bit later in winter, which may be a bigger problem. Refuelling is also a major challenge. It's a composite picture. We have to try to find measures both in the short and long term that are targeted and that provide the right solutions. It is also true that there are periods of the year in which many have to stay in prison for other reasons. We have e.g. the period of pollen which has plagued the health of the population. It's a big challenge for us to facilitate that everyone in our society can move out at all times of the year. On the front line of transport, it is quite clear that this season is the most difficult. But we have to have a long-term policy that makes us get rid of such emergency situations as we have now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1652	I will ask the Council of State the following questions: ‘A Norwegian enterprise has established a subsidiary in Estonia and wants to train a group of 6-8 persons on the holding in Norway. The foreign workers lack specific knowledge of procedures and processes. The training of the Norwegian company is intended to cover a period of two months. According to the UDI, there is no basis for meeting an application for a work permit in such a case. Will the Council of States take action to address this problem?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1661	The Foreign Affairs Act provides that persons may be given a work permit in the case to which the representative refers. There are several provisions of foreign legislation that may be complied with in such a case. This concerns Section 4a of the first paragraph of point (c) of the Foreign Regulation, which deals with the necessary staff for the development of Norwegian business. Another provision that may include this case is also point (a) of the second paragraph of Section 4a of the Foreign Regulation, which deals with trainees. An intern is not just what we usually associate with the word, it's a person who wants training in a profession. Finally, point (d) of the first paragraph of Section 4a of the Foreign Regulation, which deals with persons employed by multinational companies in the Kingdom who are trained or have special qualifications, may also be mentioned when the competence is considered necessary for the activity. In principle, point (c) of the first paragraph of Section 4a of the Foreign Regulation appears to be the provision most likely to apply in the case to which the representative refers. I would like to stress that the UDI has also informed this itself, after having been asked the question by the representative. I am of the clear opinion that it is important that the legislation opens up in order to be able to grant a work permit in this type case. The importance of internationalisation and the development of Norwegian industry strongly argues that this must be the case. The Ministry carries out a continuous review and assessment of how the rules on work permit can be designed to meet the needs of Norwegian enterprises. However, should it appear that there are shortcomings in the current legislation, I will ensure that the legislation is amended so that authorisation can be granted in such a case as the representative refers to. However, I would like to stress that the handling of the individual matter will in any case be a matter for the foreign authorities to decide on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1670	I thank the Council of State for a positive response. It seems that this specific matter is in order. But I want to follow up on the last Minister of Local and Regional Affairs said, for that company was informed by the Foreign Affairs Directorate that there is no authority to meet a request like this. The UDI official concerned complained in part that this was not possible, but could not do anything. Does the Council of State consider that there is a good enough dialogue between the Department and the UDI, so that issues in a frontier country between administration and policy are raised at political level? And will the Council of State say that the UDI is sufficiently aware that in a society and in an ever-changing world, new issues could quickly arise, issues that could be of a political nature and thus have political treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1679	After the new reform of the Foreign Affairs Act, it is not possible to define matters simply as being put forward for political treatment. The only way we can change practices in foreign affairs, in individual cases, is through regulatory changes. It has become a significantly more heavy process than it was before. On the other hand, this has been assessed on the basis of a legal certainty aspect of a majority of the previous aggregate. We have tried to get better practice so that when you have issues where you either feel that the law is inadequate or where you want to interpret the legislation so that it can have political consequences, the department should be briefed about it. It is clear that this kind of case in the process we have, would only become a case when it was sought and decisions were actually taken, and that it would then be judged whether to reject it, would be an unfairness, and that one should look at the legislation. I think we need to see a lot through how heavy the system has become after the new reform in order to get individual changes to the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1688	I thank you for your clarification!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1697	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: «The House Bank has adopted a significantly lower loan scheme for dwellings above 85 m2 [[BRA-K]] Does the Council of State consider that dwellings over 85 m2 are luxury dwellings which cannot be granted reasonable loans through the Husbanken?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1706	The House Bank has introduced a new borrowing measure for entry loans in order to achieve a better balance between supply and demand. One effect is that loans to the largest dwellings have become less attractive. The House Bank expects that private financial institutions will be able to meet the financing needs of larger dwellings that would otherwise have been loaned by the House Bank. For larger single-dwellings in districts where the loan opportunities of private lenders are very small and house-banking financing has been almost exclusively advisable, a new loan supplement of up to DKK 100000 has been introduced. In exceptional cases, e.g.: in the case of large households, the loan supplement may be increased by discretion. This means, therefore, that families with children who need to finance larger single-dwelling housing in the districts will still be able to receive home banking funding. Dwellings over 85 m2 are not defined as luxury dwellings in residential banking. The background to the tightening up of large single-dwelling units is the desire to give priority to the need-tested start-up loan for the financing of housing for disadvantaged groups on the housing market and the belief that the private credit system will be able to adequately finance large single-dwelling non-dwelling units. The House Bank emphasises the need to stimulate new buildings that are being built with special additional qualities. If the dwelling meets certain quality requirements that give a better but not luxury dwelling, the House Bank provides a loan supplement to the entry note. One of these supplements is the loan supplement for the standard of living, which this year has increased to NOK 100000. With addition to the standard of living, the new supplement in the districts and start-up loans with e.g. The total amount of public loans of NOK 220 000 may be 1 million. kr for dwellings larger than 85 m2 in districts where the loan opportunities are otherwise very small.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1715	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We are now being informed that construction projects are in decline because the House Bank refuses to be a lending agency for housing that is reasonable, acceptable family housing, however, in more central areas. This means that construction projects are stopped. There's reason to ask the council if she thinks it's good enough now that we see a smaller start-up of homes, especially in Oslo and Akershus. There we have seen that it is now braked up quite abruptly. That was 30 pst. fewer dwellings started in the last part of 2002 compared to the previous ones, and unemployment is also increasing in the construction sector. Why can't the House Bank borrow this money? It doesn't cost taxpayers one penny.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1724	The main question was whether dwellings over 85 m2 are luxury dwellings or not. Now the questioner asks a question of a general nature related to house bank financing – a question that this council actually answered two days ago in Stortinget, where I noted that very many of the homes that have been tried and where there have not been enough inquirers in Oslo and Akershus region have never been assessed for house bank financing because they have a cost framework that makes it never wanted to be relevant with house bank financing anyway. With regard to the situation related to the changes, which was the main question – whether dwellings over 85 m2 are luxury dwellings or not – it is such that we gave the House Bank leadership that priority should be given to ensuring that we also had a good offer of housing in the districts. With regard to this part, Husbanken has followed up the priorities, which have also been expressed in the Stortinget, by ensuring that housing has been protected in the districts more in terms of conversions in order to adapt demand to the volume of loans.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1731	On the website of the House Bank, we find the reason why they are now tightening up and cannot lend out to homes over 85 m2. It states that there is a need to better match demand for loans with the lending framework. It must mean that the lending framework is too low, and that this is what the government is using to deal with the borrowing framework that you have. If we look at 2002, there was no money left in the House Bank just over the summer vacation. Now you have just added NOK 1.5 billion, but at the same time it is said that a good part of this money will go to kindergarten development, and they will go to Southern dwellings – it was the Progress Party that got through in the budget agreement. This will mean that there will be scarce frameworks in 2003, and that is why the government is taking this grip.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1738	It is quite right that the reason why there has been a change in the lending scheme is that you don't want to get into the situation that you got last year, where you had used up a large part of the loan framework early in the year without any priority criteria for what you allocated, and then there was a very sudden stop, which was regrettable as many good projects were then exposed. What has therefore been done this year is to inform us that, from day one, we must clearly have what priority should be given so that we do not get into the same situation. I remember that there was also a stop in lending in the autumn of 2001, as it was applications that were pushed over to 2002. The reason for this change for dwellings above 85 m2 is that it has been estimated that in the case of single dwellings larger than 85 m2, the private market operates in large parts of the central and central parts of the country, while we have made a special addition for the districts because we know that there is more importance to home banking funding. It's a real priority, which makes sure that where there's a public need, we make it public.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1745	Question 21 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1751	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: ‘Recently, five coniferous areas were protected in East Agder. One of them was the Haugheysknipen nature reserve in the municipality of Fromand. The owners opposed to the strongest protection, and the degree of conflict was very high. Nevertheless, this area was protected, contrary to what the Storting has said, that areas of high conflict levels should be exempted from protection. Why has the Government completely ignored what the Storting has said about avoiding a high degree of conflict in protective matters, as it was established at the Innst. S. No 206 for 2000-2001?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1760	The principles for the implementation of the coniferous forest plan are laid down in the deforestation report and its treatment by the Storting, cf. St. Report. No 40 for 1994-95 and Innst. S. No 220 for 1995-96. In the work on this plan, it has been an objective that the protected areas should be representative of the wide variation we have in the Norwegian forest nature. At the same time, it has been important for the plan to be implemented with the lowest degree of conflict possible. The implementation of minimum conflicts was also important in the examination of the Eastern Norway sub-plan, which was adopted by the King of the Council of State on 13 December 2002. I would like to stress that both the reporting of coniferous forest protection and the treatment of the Stortinge place emphasis on the importance of high-productive, lower-lying areas as well. Increased focus on biologically rich areas means that conflicts often increase because one in these areas finds the largest activity in the forestry sector at the same time. This also applies to several of the locations in the Eastern Norway sub-plan, among others. Skulls in East Agder County. The government has made great efforts to mitigate the level of conflict in the implementation of the deforestation. For the plan as a whole, some areas with a high degree of conflict have been included in the protection process. 69 areas were sent out at local consultation. 51 of these were adopted protected. In the case of priorities between equivalent areas of protection value, areas with a minimum degree of conflict have been selected. This principle is in line with the guidelines for the protection of the coniferous forests, which have been dealt with by the Storting. In the Haugchneknipen area, it was already clear from the County's treatment that the protection proposal would impose economic disadvantages on the owners and hinder the future operation of the farm as a forest property. The County therefore submitted an alternative proposal reducing the area to be protected by 430 daa. This reduction significantly reduced the industrial conflicts associated with protection. It is this reduced proposal that has been adopted in kgl. Res. of 13 December 2002. I have also been informed that the municipality recommended this plan. There have been some conflicts in the implementation of the coniferous forest plan. That's absolutely right. However, authorities have implemented a number of anti-conflict measures, which in many cases have had a good effect. I have previously announced that, in the context of the presentation of the Annual Report on the Government's environmental policy and the state of the state of the state, I will present proposals for new measures in the implementation of future forest protection. In this work it will be important to reduce the level of conflict as far as possible. We must not forget the responsibility we have to take care of the protection values that exist in the forest, where almost half of the endangered species live in Norway. Here we have clear international commitments. In Norway, we have still only protected approx. 1 pst. of the forest. 99 pst. the forest shall then be handled in relation to the Forest Act. It is also important to involve yourself in this further work. Some point out that in Sweden and Finland, the percentage of protection is 4 pst.–5 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1783	When I heard what the government and state councillor Burnde had recently made herself down on the Haugseek farm in Fromand, I hardly thought my own ears. I was not just furious, but in fact hemmied. So I thought to myself that this is the Right anno 2003 – a completely unrecognizable party that conducts purely state crimes against defenceless landowners in District Norway, who are waltzing over property rights and bluffing what the Storting has said about avoiding a high degree of conflict in such safeguards. Right stands for a state rape of the landowners out in District Norway. The party is now exposed to all credibility regarding respect for private property rights. I find that the landowners have now become as lawless as the Right is about to become unscrupulous in District Norway. The first is bad, but the second is well deserved. So all of this is right-wing policy in 2003. It's to be wondered about.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1790	The president was unable to record any additional questions. But if the Minister for the Environment was able to perceive any question, he can answer it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1795	Is this good right policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1800	After the president's speech, there was a question from the representative. I have to say that the level of detail in the representative's comment says a lot. The way you characterize others, you actually characterize yourself in many ways. In this case, I have chosen to reduce the protected area in question in order to mitigate the conflict. It is also the case that those who get their forest protected are still homeowners of the forest; they are owners, but they get compensation as if the area were expropriated. So you get full compensation. 1 pst. the protection of forests in Norway. There is a large number of people who say that there are thousands of endangered species in Norway. Half of these are in the woods. To comply with the Storting decision that we should also take care of the endangered species in Norway, we depend not only on protecting a species and saying that it and that species should not be lost, but we also depend on protecting some of the biotopes in which these species are located. Therefore, Stortinget has said that we need to protect something more of the forest. But as the representative puts it, this should not be a good right-wing policy. It is a good conservative policy that we do not have a policy of species disappearance. Species that disappear will disappear forever. But I record that the Progress Party is not concerned with these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1813	If the questioner wishes to speak for a comment, the President will ask that unparliamentary expressions of the type ‘give the bluff in’ be avoided.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1816	I would like to ask a follow-up question. I'll say it so that the Right and Burn are not to recognize. Fire stands for pure red-green environmental fanaticism. Landowners throughout the country are now in Harmony, and many feel that they have been deprived of their right of ownership and ownership over their own farm and land – and that of their own Right! The right-wing behaviour in some of these protective cases is one of the most repulsive things I have ever witnessed. Me and the Progress Party have been fighting for years to avoid protection. by, among others, the Haugseek farm. Protection there is completely meaningless, and the Council of State well knows that the owner has opposed protection at the strongest. Everyone knew that the level of conflict was very high. So this ignores the Council of State and protects it unrelentingly, without caring about ownership and what the Storting has said about the degree of conflict. Fortunately, what has gone wrong in the Right is not my case. It's their own problem, so Brende's protective breach is becoming a serious problem, not only for District Norway, but also for the Right Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1827	I perceive this again as a comment in a debate that might have been better suited to Holmgang than to the staging room. I just want to say that the Storting has decided that we should increase coniferous protection. That's what I'm dealing with. It is stated in the Sem Declaration that we are going to increase coniferous protection in Norway, where we are heading for our neighbouring countries. It says in the Right Programme that the protection of the coniferous forests is to be increased, because we in the Right are actually concerned that we in Norway will also take care of the species under threat. It seems to the Progress Party that it is entirely right to do so, for example. The mountain reef disappears forever? There are 50 mountain foxes left. Does the Progress Party think it is right that we should simply reduce biodiversity in Norway? What the representative is doing now is being concerned about the map, not the terrain. What we're doing here from the Right and the Government's side is we're adding a cooperation line with the Forest Society and the implicated landowners. In the areas where we actually choose to say that here the species have to go ahead of further forestry, you get full compensation as if the area were expropriated, but you're still the owner of the area. Rents can be made for hunting and other income in this field. So I think the Progress Party here shows that in terms of the environment, they're zero. It's not a conservative party in that way. They don't care that species disappear. They have no policy on dealing with this important issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1834	The President has no difficulty in seeing that this debate is interesting, but will probably assume that it could take place in favour of a different framework than the Question Time. That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-15.ana.ud684e1845	There is no record.
