ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e100	The representative Einar Holstad, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. The representative Audun Bjørlo Lighthouse will make two private suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e108	On behalf of the representatives of Øystein Djupedal, Ågot Valle and myself, I would like to put forward proposals on action against economic crime and unethical behaviour in the business community. On behalf of the representatives of Hallgeir H. Langeland, Heidi Grande Røys and myself, I would like to put forward proposals for enhanced oil protection in the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e115	The representative, Christopher Stensaker, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e118	On behalf of the representatives of Jan Arild Ellingsen, Øyvind Korsberg, Thore A. Nistad, Per Sandberg, Kenneth Svendsen and myself, I would like to propose the development of E6 between Trondheim and Kirkenes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e123	The representative of Bendiks H. Arnesen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e126	On behalf of the representatives of Aud Gaundal, Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt, Asmund Kristoffersen, Gunn Olsen, Reidar Sandal and myself, I would like to make a proposal to present a big message on a comprehensive coastal policy and the challenges of coastal communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e131	The representative of Heidi Sørensen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e134	On behalf of the representatives of Kristin Halvorsen, Inge Ryan, Siri Hall Arnøy, Sigbjørn Molvik and myself, I will put forward proposals for a national strategy to make the Norwegian solar industry world leader.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e140	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e143	On behalf of the representative Kenneth Svendsen and myself, I would like to propose the lifting of a general 5 knot speed limit at sea within 50 metres of land and the reintroduction of local regulations. At the same time, I would like this proposal to be dealt with in accordance with Section 28(d) of the Rules of Procedure and included in the Stortinget immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e150	The representative Siri Hall Arnøy will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e153	On behalf of the representatives of Hallgeir H. Langeland, Inga Marte Thorkildsen, Heidi Sørensen, May Hansen, Sigbjørn Molvik, Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken and myself I will make suggestions to ensure the beach zone better against degradation, and improve public access to the coastal zone along the sea, lakes and streams.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e158	The representative of Arne Sortevik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e161	On behalf of the representatives of Gjermund Hagesetter, Karin S. Woldseth, Lodve Solholm and myself, I have the pleasure of making suggestions to carry out an extended analysis of the need for oil protection for the shipping chain related to the oil refinery at Mongstad and the area between Bergen Hafen and Mongstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e166	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. As regards the request made by Harald T. Nesvik, the President will consider it when referring to the case and the procedure will be clubbed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e182	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Work Party 30 minutes, Right 30 minutes, Advance Party 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 15 minutes each, Center Party 10 minutes, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e193	On behalf of Kommune-Norge, I am very pleased to note that a total increase today will join in the major structural changes proposed by the Government for the municipality sector in 2004. The government is putting up here a policy that strengthens local democracy and increases municipal freedom of action through the decentralisation of tasks, powers and responsibilities. The government's aim is for citizens to experience closeness to and influence over the decisions of the community. In addition, citizens shall experience the provision of equivalent services of good quality and availability, adapted to individual needs, irrespective of their place of residence. The organisation of the service provision shall ensure the best possible service at the lowest cost. We recognise that there is a great need for system changes in the relationship between the state and the local government sector. The indications of change needs are many: The economic situation in the municipal sector has deteriorated over time. The State governs the municipalities to a large extent through earmarked grants and detailed legislation, and the state supervision of the municipalities is not sufficiently coordinated. The strong state governance has not provided the cohesion between the municipalities that the intention has been. There has been a falling interest and less excitement about participating in the local political arena. The main elements of the Government's policy for increased municipal freedom of action are as follows: increased use of framework funding and a strong reduction of earmarked grants closure and simplification of laws and regulations Coordination of supervision of new forms of governance and control with emphasis on increasing community control and participation of framework conditions that motivate innovation and efficiency I would like to stress that it is a victory for local democracy that an overall committee is behind these extensive and necessary structural changes. In particular, this is a victory for the users of the municipal services through which they will have a strengthened and customised service provision. I have noticed that the proposed changes are in line with what the municipalities themselves are asking for. The Central Association of Municipalities has on several occasions, including: in a letter to the Municipal Committee of 2 June 2003, very pleased with the proposed amendments, and they asked the Stortinget to join the Government's proposal. As the rapporteur-general, I am also very pleased that the Government has agreed to other important changes in the income system for 2004. For several years, the Christian People's Party has been fighting to put in place a funding mechanism for resource-intensive users that puts the needs of each resource-intensive user at the centre. It is very important that people with high care needs are provided with predictable and satisfactory services, regardless of where they live. The government has provided a good model that gives municipalities equal opportunities to offer equivalent services to all their inhabitants. This model also maintains the best balance between the costs of resource-intensive users and the size of the municipality, by providing compensation beyond a certain level per year. the population. Furthermore, the Government’s proposed model also best complies with the main principles of the income system, where cohesion between municipalities takes place on the basis of expenditure requirements per year. the population. Whatever model gets the majority here today, this is a victory for both the users, the municipalities, the government and the Christian People's Party. We double the framework for this purpose, and get a state compensation in place that is proportionate to the real costs of municipalities in this area. The Christian People's Party has long pointed out that the regional grant has not been granted to municipalities that no longer fulfil the conditions for the regional grant, because the population exceeds 3000 inhabitants. The government has done something about this. A step-by-step model is introduced in 2004 to support municipalities with a population of between 3000 and 3200 inhabitants. Together with the changes in the income criteria for the environment and agriculture, which focus more on the agricultural activity of municipalities and real resource consumption for environmental protection tasks than before, these are good district policy instruments. I am very pleased that the whole committee has agreed to these amendments as well. In view of the fact that the employer’s fee in Norway must be adapted to the State aid rules of the EEA Agreement, uncertainty has been linked to local authorities’ expenditure on the employer’s fee. It is therefore with great satisfaction that I note that the Government has agreed that municipalities charged with expenditure as a result of the cancellation of a differentiated employer's fee should be fully compensated for this through the discretionary grant. Government parties acknowledge that an imbalance has developed over time between municipal incomes on the one hand and the tasks of municipalities on the other. The government therefore proposes to increase the total income of municipalities by DKK 3 3⁄4–4 1⁄4 billion in 2004. The free revenues are proposed to be increased by NOK 2 1⁄4 billion. However, with the challenges facing the local community sector today, we do not think it is enough just to increase the financial framework. In order to provide municipalities with the space for action they are asking for, it is essential that increased frameworks be combined with other measures, as I have explained earlier. I want to praise the Government, which has proposed new criteria in the income system that capture municipal spending on drugs and psychiatry. This has been a shortcoming since the introduction of a new income system, which has hit the big cities in particular. There have been many questions from municipalities about the consequences of this conversion. In isolation, the table in the municipal proposition, which illustrates the income of municipalities after the full implementation of the model, may be misleading. It is therefore important for me to clarify that the conversion will take place over five years, where the present system will be stepped down in parallel with the introduction of the new income criteria. These changes must also be seen in the context of the increase both in the overall framework and in the free revenues. The opposition parties ask the Government to conduct separate negotiations with the individual county councils in relation to the extension as a result of a change in the role of child protection and family protection and in the area of housing. In this respect, I can show that this has been done. Already on 13 June there was a meeting between the rapporteurs' Labour Committee, the Municipal Council and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs on this subject. The rapporteurs' committees express their agreement with the principles for the implementation of the extract. However, the Bureau shows that the estimated administrative and overhead costs are too high, but the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs have been given figures in their own meetings with each county municipality in accordance with the figures used in the selection process. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is set to correct the numerical basis based on the verifications from the counties of those possible errors. The Bureau is not satisfied that an estimated volume increase from 2002 to 2003 of 6 and 3 pst, respectively, has been introduced in the framework of the extraction of the county municipality. for the protection of children and rural areas, and claims that this will have a negative impact on the provision of services in the field of secondary education. However, the calculated volume growth is well below average annual growth over the last five years. The Bureau wants the Department to look at the design of the loss compensation. KS claims that there may be misunderstandings about the loss compensation in several counties. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs will initiate a dialogue with each county municipality on loss compensation and economic impact for each municipality. On behalf of the municipalities, I am disappointed that the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Advance Party do not fully endorse the comprehensive inclusion of earmarked grants proposed in the proposal. The opposition agrees in principle with the inclusion of earmarked grants, but will not go from word to action. I record that I share this disappointment with the municipalities. The Managing Director, Olav Ulleren, of the Central Association of Municipalities, states to the Business of the Day of 17 June that he is very disappointed that the Government’s plan to wind up earmarked grants is not fully endorsed for 2004. The uller also regrets that the opposition does not support the 2005-2007 inclusion plan. The government trusts that municipal politicians throughout the country have the same strong interest in the further development of good welfare services as those of national politicians. In order to meet local needs and ensure priority in line with local needs, the Government will entrust several choices and decisions to each local government. We note that the opposition does not have the same confidence. I can't help but remember that we've been assigned to one of the world's best countries to live in for years. It is not always reflected in the public debate, which unfortunately often gives the opposite impression. We know that someone has fallen outside. The Christian People's Party will fight for these too to be lifted and given a satisfactory living situation. The budget framework of the harvest determines the extent to which the overall budget framework of municipalities can be increased. The government has said that the minimum will be about NOK 4 billion. It is unusual and unnecessary to propose what has already been proposed in the landfill proposal. The parties to the Government will therefore not promote minority motions for resolutions Nos. 5 in the setting. On behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Right, however, I will present proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox The parties to the Government will further support proposal No. 13, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. I would also like to recommend the proposals for decisions in the committee's position behind the governmental parties, namely VI, IX and X.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e275	The representative Ivar Østberg has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e280	A spokesman from the Christian People's Party recently spoke to the Official Journal of Bergen: «I am very happy to be a spokesman, so for the sake of that case I should have liked to continue. But I listen to something. I have a big problem defending a lot of the government. A leader cannot continue as a spokesman when he or she cannot defend his or her own government.' He is asked if there are other things behind this protest: 'No, this is the only reason I don't want to be a dictator anymore. My party has ended up in an unlucky sea of hope." And he goes on to say, ‘District policy, transport policy and everything related to the local economy make me unwell.’ My question to the representative of Østberg is therefore: Has the spokesman in the municipality of Tysne given an outstanding observation, or has he been harmed to give a distorted picture of the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e299	The rapporteur in Mr Tysnes has not given a clear description. He has been injured to give a delusion, and it may be due to several things. Two days ago, I received a phone call from the rapporteur in Flekkefjord, who could tell me that he had received information from the county that the government's model, when it came to particularly resource-intensive users, would lead to Flekkefjord's municipality being unable to get any money at all. This is wrong. The committee knows that, based on the answers we received from the department. That's how it created a picture. I said that unfortunately this is not a debate that shows how good we are in Norway, and how much positive it is proposed. Conflicts are created that are not real.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e306	I would like to open with thanking the case rapporteur for a good report. But when the case-rapporteur was initially so pleased with what the committee joined, I was left with many questions. For what was the actual agenda of the Government and of the government parties on the Stortinget, if it is that they are satisfied with the result that lies on the table here, in relation to what came from the Government? Here's the fact that very, very much has changed, and the government is getting through too very, very little. The representative of Østberg is very concerned about this with local self-government, and then my question is: what is most important, framework funding or earmarking, when we know that it's just 7-8 pst. of the funds and revenues of the municipalities that are earmarked, in relation to legislation and reporting and the type of things to which the municipalities are exposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e315	If we are to strengthen local democracy, we need to give municipalities greater space for action. Then we have to reduce earmarked transfers, and there are proposals in the vote that say that the largest of the earmarked grants will be included from 1 January 2006. It will bring about a significant change. Of the 15 proposals that the Government has put forward for inclusion or liquidation, a majority is given for 10. In the case of simplified supervision, on which the municipalities often complain, the Government and the Government parties are fully associated. In terms of governance, more through dialogue than through frameworks and rules, and their simplification, the Government is given a say. Well, we have reason to be proud and happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e320	Now the bulk of the population during the day takes over NOK 11⁄2–2 billion more to the municipalities next year. This is contrary to the Government's will, but it's completely in line, or perhaps even a little too little, with the majority of Christian People's Party-Rapporteurs country and beach around having participated in their evening prayers. And it's completely in the same direction as the Christian People's Party program, which wants the well-being of the community to be in balance with the well-being and prosperity of the private. And then my question is: can we now trust that the Christian People's Party will follow the decision of the big shot, put its foot down and stand on it, if the Government with the calculator force tries to cut away the far too small, but sorely needed additions that we are doing today in the Biggest?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e325	I do not understand what the Christian People's Party-Rapporteurs include in their evening prayers, but I sincerely hope that they not only ask for things, but that they also thank for the incredible prosperity we have in this country. I think they're grateful because we're so good at the rest of the world. And in relation to the whole it is necessary to thank and not to describe the situation as bad and difficult as the representative Holmås does. It's clear that the government and government parties say it's an imbalance, and that we have to do something about this. We don't take everything at once. For the government, full employment is the most important thing, and then we have to pursue a tight overall economic policy. But the Christian People's Party rapporteurs are and have stated that they are very pleased with what has now been presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e330	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e334	In a number of municipalities around our country, everyday life is difficult. Popular complaints about hopeless working conditions, not because they lack tasks to solve, but because they have too little money to help with. This does not create optimism and progress. This fact is also the explanation that many populaces in the municipalities say they're recruiting. This is the everyday life of many. An investigation recently carried out by the Local Governments’ Central Association states that 56 pst. of municipalities this year reduces one or more of the services provided. The reason is lack of money. The survey includes 164 municipalities, which probably 47 pst. by the people of the country cage. There are two specific areas of reduction: schooling and care for the elderly — the two core activities of our municipalities. In a large number of municipalities, it is pointed out that cuts occur as a result of imbalances between income and expenditure. A lot of people think that the high pension costs are a major cause of the problems. As if this wasn't enough: Last year, 40 pst went by. of the sub-municipalities. The latest report from Technical Calculation Selection shows that the deficit in local government is now 10.8 billion kroner. It represents an increase of $4 billion in the last two years. This is the harsh reality of the populace in the municipalities. We must have an active relationship with that in Stortinget. Representatives of the government party claim that the big question is this: If you are in favour of freedom of action for local politicians, you have to support the Government's plan to move $8 billion from the eartag to free income. The Labour Party believes in principle that the most possible means for the municipalities should be free, so that the local government can dispose of them freely. But it is an important condition that must be fulfilled: the system must be fully financed before the transfer takes place. If not, municipalities are in a state of permanent underfinancing. Several of the proposals proposed by the Government for inclusion in the free revenues do not meet this requirement. That's why the Workers' Party is moving towards the inclusion of six of the resignations next year. The government failed at several points. The government's proposal to include eartag appeals no longer provides the means to provide municipal services. That's an important point. Therefore, this proposal is also not the main element of the 2004 municipalproposition. Prime Minister Bondevik and Councillor Solberg have overlooked this view. To all intents and purposes, the day before the proposition was made public. The major challenge in our municipalities is this: there is too little money to solve the common tasks in schools and care for the elderly. The government's response to the challenge is inadequate. Municipalities need more money than the Government proposes, if we are to avoid further degradation of the most important welfare tasks. The working party takes the consequences. We believe that the economy in the municipal sector must be strengthened by NOK 3 billion next year in addition to the government's proposal. In addition, we state that if the municipalities' revenues are further reduced, we will consider even more resources for the sector. Our proposal includes, for example: that the municipality of Bergen will receive an additional income of 104 million next year. kr. We are vigilant for the well-being of our municipalities. It is one of the highest priority areas in the Labour Party's policy. It is crucial to create work and well-being for the inhabitants. She has a lot to say to take care of the bus in our country. The government is running out of control today. It does not agree with the proposal on a financial framework. That is the dominant proposal in the matter. The majority of the population today: municipalities will have more money for the welfare tasks next year. I would like to challenge State Council Solberg directly: Will the Government follow up the view of the majority in Stortinget in this matter? The supply of people with high needs for care is burdensome on many municipal budgets. There is no lack of willingness to give this group a satisfactory offer. Many municipal politicians welcome the difficult choices they have to make in this area as well. I note that the Government’s proposal is not accepted – nor in this area. The Labour Party believes that there is too much responsibility for follow-up in this field in the municipalities, without being followed up with enough money. That is why we are proposing a system that gives municipalities better financial conditions. This provides the basis for a qualitative improvement in the provision of services to users. The Labour Party also believes that the state must take financial co-responsibility for all users with a high level of care – without the abbreviation that may be in the Government's proposal. It's unthinkable to let municipalities take an extra financial responsibility. That is why we are proposing an estimate. The government will stimulate the use of competition in areas that have been screened at this time. It seems to be a matter of time-honoured belief that competition and privatisation can solve most of the problems. The working party's view is that sick leavers should not be test-cloths for putting up competition. We think this experiment has to stop. The consequences for the quality of services have to be assessed. It must also be the order of the working conditions for them to be added. Unworthy conditions in private profit-based hospitals should be foundational good enough. The right-wing party demands that the costs of a sector that operates with care be reduced. In general, there is only one way to do this: the cost of wages is reduced by cutting the number of employees. In most cases, this results in poor service quality. Users get injured. It is a policy that the Labour Party cannot take responsibility for. It is decisive to give old and nurturing a worthy offer. We're also concerned that the supply should be equivalent. The requirement is very difficult to support if profit interests are to play a central role in the care services. Right profile these days with the slogan "More For Money". It's like advertising from a business. In this context, it's definitely not about food. On the other hand, it's about the cleaner washing the town hall a little faster than before, that the maid should use a quarter less per. the patient, and that the nurse should do the job in an even shorter time than before. This doesn't make it any better services. The Labour Party believes that commercial interests must be kept away from the core tasks of the welfare society. This is important for us to point out at a time when the Government in proposals on proposals will privatize. Right wins out with its policy. Christian People's Party Leaders Reply City Haugland insists on one side that she does not share her right ambitions to get substantial portions of municipal services out on offer. It argues that the Sem Declarations see clear limits on how offensive the Solberg Council of State can push forward a commitment to the launch of competition. On the other hand, this is in stark contrast to the policy pursued by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: competition as a means of getting more money back. The Councils of State shall, in addition, add: ‘Competition outsourcing also contributes to providing employees with a more exciting everyday life.’ If the goal of the Right is to add a more exciting everyday life to them, the game is in the process of success. Thousands of local government fears about their workplaces. Many have already lost them because the local economy is poor. Community development needs to focus on quality development, new forms of cooperation, use of skills and better productivity. The working party emphasises that this work must be done through active participation from them. There have been trials in the municipalities of Sørum, Steinkjer and Porsgrund. In several areas many satisfactory results have been achieved: productivity has grown. The service quality has increased. Users are more satisfied. Sick leave has gone down. There's been a lot of savings. This has happened because they have been strongly engaged, and because they have shown a willingness to find change. I would like to make the suggestions that have been put forward by the Labour Party, and the proposals on which the Labour Party is co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e386	The representative, Mr. Reidar Sandal, has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e391	The representative, Reidar Sandal, describes this as a heavy day and a staggering defeat for the Government. Never has it been worse for Municipality-Norway. It's scary, we're hearing, and it's talking about hard realities that require action. In other words, a fairly broad pen is used in the black paint of the municipalities’ financial situation. Then it is a little strange that it has been so quiet from the municipalities even though the proposals in the municipality's 2004 proposal, although we know that they will hardly say no to even more money. My question to the representative Sandal is: how is it that the Labour Party does not have any additional billions for the municipalities in the revised national budget, which we are going to deal with here in the Chamber tomorrow? Isn't it so dangerous right now, or was it maybe hard to find containment? Then it might be a little bit easier to find 3 billion kroner next year, when you don't have to point to containment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e398	It's like when you're in the political landscape, you observe what you want. I think that's the explanation when the representative Hogsnes says it's been quiet from the municipalities when it comes to reactions to the community proposition. At least many of us in the municipal committee have experienced quite different everyday life in the month when this proposition has doctors out for political debate. It is a paradox that in all of this, the case-speaker, as a representative of the Government Party, does not take up the proposal on the economic framework proposed by the Government, which is widely accepted in the Grand Duchy today. When it comes to the question of the three billion we're proposing next year, we're doing it based on the priorities and the foundation given. I would like to remind the representative Hogsnes that we had a corresponding proposal to promise for this year, with a serious discovery.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e405	The representative Hogsnes partly ran off with my reply to the representative Sandal, but the representative Sandal did not respond to that challenge. If it had been as bad as the Workers' Party expressed when the 2003 budget was adopted, and according to the behaviour that the Workers' Party has had in retrospect in relation to the critical situation in the municipalities, it would have been a disaster in the public sector and in the municipal sector, as we have understood along the way until the municipal proposition was presented. Why is it then that the Workers' Party did not find a single crown in the revised to meet this sad situation in the municipalities? The representative Sandal says that there is far too little funding in the municipal sector. I would like to get Sandal's representative to clarify: is it all municipalities that have too little money? Is there too little money in general in the municipal sector, or are there some municipalities that have too little, and some municipalities that have too much?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e414	The representative Sandberg questions whether there is too little funding in the municipal sector in general. The answer to that is yes. The positive answer to the question has also been given by the representative Sandberg to formulate the position in a joint remark from his own party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Labour Party. I refer to the foundation given, and the criticism these four opposition parties have given by the Government's municipal arrangement for next year. I think that the municipalities generally have too little resources, and it is primarily the core tasks in the welfare sector, e.g. schooling and care for the elderly. The signals received by members of the municipal committee on their many trips around the country are clear on this point. The signals I actually didn't think the representative Sandberg would ask questions about.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e421	The Labour Party has drawn close both to the perception of the amount of money needed by the local government and to issues related to the outsourcing of competition. That's SV very happy. But we have the same question, why the Workers' Party is not able to find a single penny in the revised local government sector. Yesterday, the new figure showed that the result in Kommune-Norway in 2002 is not 0.9 pst., as it says in the proposition, but 0.1 pst. So it's worse. This goes beyond the school, and it goes beyond care, as Sandal Sjögl said in his post. And it's not too late to do anything about it. So we are not going to deal with the revised budget until tomorrow, and there are proposals on the table to which the Labour Party can join, in the light of the new figures that have arrived. It'll be a very important boost for the local government sector, so it can go into the next year with a little bit less debt. Has the Workers' Party decided, or will they consider this again?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e430	I have participated in many debates in the Stortinget on the municipal economy, and it is far from a historical sensation that the representative Karin Andersen pays tribute to the Labour Party's commitment to the municipal sector in order to provide the best possible welfare provision. I note that, I am happy for it, and I would like to thank you for that. I am determined that we will be able to have sensible cooperation in this area even in the years to come. The Labour Party is very heavy and strongly committed to the municipal structure for the next year, and that is what is the theme of today's debate. I found in many ways that it is a paradox that the municipal structure of the Labour Party has been so accepted and cared for in broad circles that those who are replicants will discuss a matter that is on the Stortinges agenda tomorrow. I'll find out. And that suggests that we're on safe ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e437	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e440	In the 2004 Community Proposition proposal, the Government has tried to replace all good parties and programme formulations with a concrete content. A comprehensive and comprehensive plan has been presented to strengthen local democracy and increase the urban space for action. The government has invited the Stortinget to conclude a local democracy reform, a modernisation of our local democracy. This reform consists of elements which: a plan for the inclusion of earmarked grants, an obligatory legislative and reporting simplification plan for the overall and coherent supervision of the local government sector, coordinated by the county council, alternative governance as an alternative to minimum standards and manning standards; For us in the Right, the vision is more local democracy – more power, authority and space of action to local authorities. We want to decentralize tasks, authority and responsibility. Right will have less government governance and detailed regulation from Stortinget. We trust our own and other parties' local politicians. In fact, we believe that they are at least as concerned with shaping comprehensive and good welfare for the citizens as what we rich politicians are. That is why we are in the right to give greater local space for action and opportunities to use resources more effectively. We have to take it inward that local conditions vary widely around the country. We know that the needs are different, and then we think it is important that the individual municipality should control itself and its resources as much as possible. Simply put, it will give more for the money. I feel we're now in a good track. I could think of a little bit more speed in modernising, but obviously we don't have a majority for that. Still, we're taking some long steps in the right direction. This government is really serious about strengthening local democracy, not just talking about it. The fact that the responsibility for negotiating teachers' wages is now being decentralised is, in my view, a strong boost for local democracy. We are also pleased that the government parties, through an agreement with the Workers' Party, undertake to include the operating grant for kindergartens from 2006, even if it is two years later than the Government has provided. It is also worth highlighting that, with the support of the Socialist Left, the government parties ensure a majority of other important reforms in the field of school, where we strengthen the municipalities as school owners and strengthen the content of local democracy. It is not difficult to recognise that there is an imbalance between the tasks of the municipal sector and the framework defined by the State. As I said earlier in this Chamber, the economic situation in many Norwegian municipalities is difficult. Many local politicians feel that they have great difficulty in solving the tasks they are required to do, within the economic framework set at their disposal. That description of reality should all be able to agree on in this room. I also think we can still agree that the picture is complex. Municipality-Norway is diverse. There is much of the strength of our local democracy, but at the same time we also see that it is a very big part of the challenge. The medicine must consist of more than just several kronor into the municipal economy. The economic imbalance must be corrected over time, and it must be done through several instruments where municipalities and the state must assume joint responsibility. The challenge in the municipal sector cannot be solved only through increased State transfers, even if it is necessary. That's why the government has proposed that the free revenues of municipalities increase by NOK 2 1⁄4 billion, and the total revenues by between NOK 3 3⁄4 billion and NOK 4 1⁄4 billion. It's a very significant growth, compared to what we've seen in recent years, and will in any case make the local government one of the harvest's budget winners. At the same time, we note that an overall opposition here at Stortinget believes there is room for adding even more money. It should not surprise anyone in front of a harvest of local elections, even though this today boils down in support of the Progress Party's proposal to ask the Government to increase the free revenues of municipalities for 2004 by SEK 1.5 billion compared to the Government's proposal. We realize that there will be some disagreement between the same parties about how this will be covered in the 2004 budget, but we will probably have a good opportunity to come back to later this autumn. Today there are 45 earmarked grants for municipalities and counties. These together amount to NOK 17.2 billion. For 2004, the government has proposed to incorporate or liquidate 15 of these, which, according to the 2004 municipal proposal, would amount to DKK 8.4 billion. Now we know that the government parties have agreed with the Workers' Party to wait two years with the inclusion of the earmarked grant for kindergartens, which represents probably NOK 7.5 billion. As far as I can see from the proposals that are so far on the table, the Government will agree, by an alternating majority, to remove ten of these earmarked grants. And even if this is $506 million in dollars. Nor is it half a billion dollars in change in the municipal economy. We're on our way to something, even though the big step can't be taken until a few years. That is why I fully agree with the Executive Director, Olav Ulleren, of the Municipal Councils' Central Association, who in today's business expresses his disappointment at the fact that the Government's proposal to increase the freedom of action of municipalities by abolishing earmarked grants is no longer applicable. He regrets that there was no agreement on a plan to terminate the designation, and expects the parties to commit more than the summer in front of the municipal election campaign – or as he says: ‘This was an overall plan of logical coherence. Individualised arrangements are much more difficult to deal with.» I fully agree with that. I would like to point out that someone has tried to present this as a heavy day and a defeat for the Government – a soaring defeat even. It is probably primarily a defeat for Kommune-Norway. Action does not exactly follow words here on Stortinget, and the eagerness to control the municipalities seems to be still very much alive in several parties. The government has also put forward proposals to introduce a new criterion based on the population in the cost key for social services in the income system of municipalities. There is a clear trend that larger municipalities have a clearly higher spending requirement related to drug use and psychiatry than smaller municipalities, which is not adequately captured by today’s cost key. Now, a majority of the municipal committee will send this back to the government to see if you can better catch up with some of the larger regional centers that we have here to land, which are not necessarily very popular, but which have a very heavy strain on drugs and psychiatry. This means that we'll get back to this later this fall. The majority also ask for negotiations with each county municipality on the extension of the county framework grant for the transfer of responsibility for child protection and family protection and care. I have understood that there is largely agreement on the model, but that some county councils believe that there is reason to look at some individual statements. At the same time, it is important to link this with other reforms that have taken place with the division of tasks in recent years. I'm pleased that it seems to be a majority in the United Kingdom to introduce a system of VAT neutrality. It is very important, above all, the potential of a significant expansion of inter-municipal cooperation in problem solving. Such a scheme could also reduce the costs of municipalities. I am also pleased that the Government is now looking into the proposals to allow municipalities to get back some of the company's taxes, and the proposal for a system of symmetric income balancing. For many years, as a local politician and rapporteur in a municipality with many resource-intensive users, I have been working to find a top finance system. In its comments, the Progress Party launches the term ‘users with special needs’, which I actually think is quite comprehensive for what we are talking about here. Today, 650 million are distributed. kr through the judgement of municipalities with particularly large expenses. The government has proposed adding another 300 million. kr in this scheme, which will be the majority in the Chamber later today to increase further by about 150 million. kr. This will enable a system with an entry point, or a municipal estate if you want, of NOK 700000 per person. use, while at the same time you will get compensated for 80 pst. of the total expenditure on a country-by-country basis in addition to this amount — although there is some disagreement about the model of how this should be done. We have to be able to find a good solution to this. I'm concerned with users here and by finding a top-level funding scheme that doesn't make users throwballs between municipalities, or where any new user, whether it's a heavy traffic damage resident, or a newly moved family with a multi-disabled child, appears to be a threat to the users who already live in the municipality. As the system has been to now, this has been a real threat. I myself have personal experience for that from meetings with concerned relatives. The gender equality grants have not captured this well enough. Now we can get a system that lets the money follow the user more, and then we'll have to put up with a little round on whether it should happen per. user, or in a system that jointly captures the smallest municipalities and their ability to provide good services to its users with special needs. In any case, we will now have a system that provides a very good top finance scheme, with almost a doubling of state resources. And I'm glad that there's a broad consensus to go for this. All parties agree that this should be done through an estimate allocation. [[President clubs]] It will give users the security network they need. Overall, this is not bad at all. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e498	The representative heard the excellent club! It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e504	The competition, privatisation and more for the money is the recipe of the Right, which should make everyone so much more clumsy. Is this supposed to give quality of life and a good everyday life? I think: No! According to the newspaper Varden for Monday 26 May, the representative Kari Lise Holmberg states that «she is deeply disappointed that the government both in the municipal bill and the Storby message allows smaller cities to get little and the big cities more». And she says, ‘We have no policies for cities such as Skien, Porsgrund and Tønsberg, for example.’ This I agree with. Is this an opinion that the representative of Hogsnes shares, or is his party colleague completely wrong? The representative of Hogsnes would probably know well about this situation, as he once had our spokespersons in Tønsberg, and still is a member of the City Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e518	I just have to be brief enough to say that I do not believe the purpose of competitive outsourcing or exposure to competition is to make people happier. It's more about trying to draw the best out of what's available, getting more for the money. We realize that there is no monopoly on the knowledge or ability to solve the problems as best as possible in the municipalities. There are also good alternatives both in intercommunal solutions and in private. It should be well known that, as former rapporteur in a medium-sized Norwegian city municipality, I have been concerned with the special situation of these municipalities – regional centres that are not particularly popular but have many of the tasks of the big cities. I feel that the government is now taking long steps towards also improving the situation of these municipalities. I believe the representative Kari Lise Holmberg and I agree on the very most on that front, and I feel that the government's policy gives us the right course.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e525	I don't think the representative Upbeøen Hansen needs to fear Right's eagerness after the competition. I would ask the representative of Mr Hogsnes to draw attention to proposal No. 32, from the Party of Advancement, which reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a case to give challenge rights to private tenderers, in order to give private persons the right to make offers for the performance of municipal tasks, and the municipality undertakes to compare the costs and quality of the offer with the existing solution.’ I believe the representative of Hogsnes knows the wording of that proposal. It was a resolution that was unanimously adopted at the National Meeting of the Right. In the Chamber today, the Right votes against. And that's why I think I can reassure Mr. Hansen that Right's eagerness is not so great anyway, because they do not follow up their own resolutions that were unanimously adopted at their national meeting. How does the representative, Hogsnes, believe we need more efficiency, more outsourcing and more use of the principle of tendering in the municipalities, when we know that the Workers' Party, among others. have you signed a contract with the Municipality Association?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e539	I will give the representative Sandberg the right that I also have my own experience that someone's close ties with the Municipality Association are more a brake on modernising the municipality than an incentive to strengthen the efforts. To the issue of the right to challenge: I feel that the decision taken at the National High Court meeting is being followed by the Government for a long time. It should be said that in Norway it is not necessarily a culture to adopt the system that has been introduced by the Danes. There are mixed experiences in Denmark, and I'm going to say that we still have some way to go here before we're just as mature for it. But there is no prohibition for municipalities to launch challenge rights. At the same time, we give the municipalities that have a strategy for how they want to compete an opportunity to do it at their pace.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e546	In total Right does, we see that the Right in Government will not pay what it costs to give people a modern school and a modern care for the elderly. Instead, the right will put off competition, and they want workers to pay, under the calculation slogan: ‘more for money’, which we take from low-paid public employees, and most of them are ladies. Figures from the Trade Union show today that employees receive up to NOK 25 000 less each year in pensions when employers go from public to private. And then my question is, is it that the Right message to bosses, cleaners and help nurses who work in public is that the only way to keep the job is to agree to a pension as bad as the private competitors have?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e553	The answer to the representative Holmås’s question is no. There are some myths out there and going about pensions, and I see that the union has tried to repeat some of them today. We realize that there are differences, but there is a ripple in this area. And this fact that we are now producing such investigations tells us two things: firstly, that the public sector has some competitive advantage that some people seem not to be fully aware of, and secondly, that there is a development here that balances this. In the case of myths, we probably heard some of the same sounds when we tried to obtain offers from other insurance companies in the municipality I came from. Then we also heard that there would be very difficult and big differences, until the employees discovered that they were getting equally good plans, yes, they even got better plans from competing pension companies. So here's a development that gives a different picture than what Holmås describes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e567	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e570	I must first say that for the Progress Party it has been difficult to move towards providing better services to the municipalities in relation to our primary arrangement. On the one hand, we have been in danger of being called populists, because we now want to increase the framework for the municipal sector. On the other hand, we have been in danger of being accused of not taking the municipalities seriously, which has come in particular as accusations from the Workers' Party. I fully agree with Mr Hogsnes that large parts of the political environment and the public sector are still not mature for change. And that's a little bit of a shame, because I actually think that in the short term it'll be doing the users in the individual municipalities a bear service. It is sad when politicians of such a nature as the representative Sandal do not in any way see that there is a difference in the income from the municipality to the municipality, but constantly based their criticism of the shortcomings of the public sector on the general level. I would also like to challenge the representative Sandal in relation to my line round instead. Is it true that the representative Sandal and the Workers' Party believe that Bykle Municipality has too little money? Or that the Modale municipality has too little resources? Or that the municipality of Sandefjord has too little resources? Or that the municipalities of Finnmark have too little resources? That's not the case. Everyone knows that's not the case. And that's why we need to look more generally at the income system and find new ways to solve the problems in the public sector. And so here's the Progress Party on solutions! It's just to make sure that what's primary tasks, that's health, care and school, is guaranteed funding, and then let the municipalities get total autonomy beyond that. It will in the long run force itself through. It also becomes a little too simple when the Workers' Party relies for six months on the broad community of municipalities. They have to, because they have signed a contract with this broad team. Large sections of the public sector council have also signed contracts. That's why it's going to be incredibly difficult to make changes. The Progress Party sent on its own initiative – in April this year – a letter to all the country's rapporteurs to get feedback, not through the KS, not through the Workers' Party, but we said they could contact the Progress Party directly on the Stortinget and tell them what was the greatest burden. Of the 434 municipalities, 32 were the ones who had a problem replying. For me, the answer is that the municipalities are doing well. But the 32 municipalities that responded are going to get serious treatment. We made a statistics out of it, and to make a long story short: 31 of the 32 municipalities replied that if we solved the problems for users with special needs, they would not complain. For this reason, the Progress Party entered into negotiations with the government parties on the municipal proposition in order to put in place a proper solution for users with special needs. If we had put in place a proper solution, primarily the Progress Party model with 100 pst. state funding, we would have indirectly also provided the municipalities with huge revenues. But that was not the will of the government parties. Nor is it willing to do so in this Chamber today, even though the proposal of the Socialist Left and the Central Party will be what we support subsidiaryly. We have our own model. We have followed up our promises to the local government sector. We have also followed up the promises that we feel we had in relation to the current year's budget and the municipal bill for 2003. We believe that the income of municipalities, if they come in the form of tax revenues, should fall to the municipal sector as a whole. So it failed, but we take responsibility. First of all, we proposed that it be revised, which will be discussed tomorrow. We know that we don't get a majority for that. We are therefore proposing that they should have it in 2004. We feel responsibility. But it is clear that there is a balance in relation to how far the Progress Party is going to move away from its principal arrangements in terms of the municipalities. We cannot put ourselves in a situation where our elected representatives in the counties and municipalities become hostages to the fact that the Workers' Party's constellations cut down to school and care for the elderly in the municipalities. And so does the Center Party. There are also examples of that. We don't want to be hostages for this anymore. That's why we see that we also have to make an urgent effort to give more money to the local government sector. We know that if this does not happen, the representatives of the Workers' Party will uncritically cut down on school and care in the municipalities. There's a bunch of examples of that. Of course, they would rather take care of what they have signed with the Municipal Association, a difficult public administration and employment banks. There's a bunch of examples of that. With regard to the extraction model, where the counties lose different tasks, we have only followed up the majority comment that we agreed on in relation to the drug reform. The Progress Party relates to the majority comments and agreements that we have had in the past, as opposed to many others. That's our answer to that. I hope that the Council of State will come into dialogue, and that we can agree with the County Councils, so that we do not get this back to the Stortinget several times, like the hospital settlement. Interestingly, what the rapporteur said was a dialogue. At least I have not registered that I have received that information while the committee was dealing with the municipal proposition. If that's the case, it's very interesting. As regards the cost key for social services, the Progress Party agrees in principle with the Government. We want an urbanity criterion. But we want a little bit more time to see if there are other possibilities, other opportunities within the objective criteria system and the income system. That's why we want it to be our own thing. But it is clear that what the Government is in favour of here is in line with the policy of the Progress Party. It's just so sad that we haven't been guaranteed funding for health, care and school first. It would have been perfect. In the case of a differentiated employer’s fee, the Progress Party believes that there should be other possibilities and should be applied for, even if we do not want to have any exceptions in the case of municipalities. We would like to take a few words about our general policy on tax policy, which might have done something for private business, but I am not going to say anything about that right now. Much of what the Government has presented here is based on strengthening local democracy and self-government. I have said it many times before: there is a difference between local self-government when the Progress Party talks about it, and when the Government, the Center Party, SV and the Workers' Party talk about it. When we talk about local self-government, we talk about the individual being more influential. We are not talking about that it is the individual local government or the individual city council that should have greater authority. That's the difference. In this context, I would like to ask the government parties to look at proposals No. 21, 22 and 30 of the Progress Party. At the end of the day, I would just like to promote the proposals that the Progress Party is behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e598	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e603	Yes, poor Progress Party, which is forced by the Workers' Party to give more money to the municipalities. It definitely doesn't worry me. So to something completely different. The promotion party is very concerned about the privatisation of municipal services. It's actually a contradiction to the perception of most people. The daily newspaper has conducted a survey that shows, and cannot be interpreted differently, that there is a massive refusal to privatise schools, hospitals, homes, homes, hospitals and kindergartens. The Labour Party believes that we must now stop privatisation until we know the consequences with regard to, among other things. quality and the rights of employees. Today it is also known that one can lose up to NOK 25 000 in annual pensions when the employer goes from municipality to private. This applies primarily to low-paid women and women in part-time jobs. The progress party is very concerned with today's pensioners, and that's good. But is the Progress Party equally concerned with tomorrow's pensioners, and does the Progress Party consider it reasonable to demand that pension rights be maintained in the event of privatisation in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e613	Let me first say that the Advance Party is not violently concerned with privatisation. We are concerned that there will be competition. Who there is competition between – whether it is between two municipalities, whether it is between a municipality and a private actor or whether it is between a municipality and an organisation – is of no concern to us. The point for us is that we want competition, and that we provide a wider range of services to users that can then be quality assured. We believe that when we get competition, users will also be the quality guarantors of the offer, as opposed to the representative Sandal, who pointed to the terribleness of privatising care. And we can also show you a couple of examples. You have e.g. in Nord-Trøndelag had a study showing that 40 pst. have been lacking in public service production, in care services, and there are public services, and we cannot guarantee that quality. In fact, in relation to the investigation referred to by the representative, the result was three-thirds. A third was satisfied, a third thought it was enough, and a third thought it was too small. Today, by the way, I see a survey in the Online Newspaper showing that 48 pst. believes that the quality of competitive services will be the same as before. They don't fear it, but they don't want it – but they don't think it's going to be any worse if we put them off by competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e620	I have registered that the Progress Party in the committee process has chosen not to comment on decentralising tasks and responsibilities from the state to local and regional levels. Moreover, the party would not be in favour of expressing satisfaction that framework funding still has to be the main financing model for the municipal sector. The Progress Party regrets that the Government is starting at a bad end in relation to increasing the autonomy of the municipalities. The alternative policy of the Progress Party is that the State should ensure the financing of health, care and school. The party believes that municipal politicians are not entitled to solve the municipal welfare problems. So the party does not trust the local politicians. How will the Progress Party explain its firm belief that the state and the big business politicians are best placed to carry out the tasks of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e629	If the representative looks a little bit more at the notes, she'll see that we're actually at a point a little bit further behind in the setting that goes on the regional part. But the reason why we're not on the note to which the representative refers is that the Right has been so intensely concerned with maintaining and strengthening the County Council. Since we're the only party that still wants to shut down the county council as its own administration, we have to mark it the way we do, when the Right goes in the opposite direction and wants to strengthen the county council. With regard to the fact that the Progress Party wants government funding, it is not because we do not trust the local politicians – in relation to their political position – but we actually trust more that the individual user knows more about the needs. We don't believe that 52 local government representatives from seven different parties are working together to give the right offer to all residents of a municipality. That is why we want government funding directly linked to users. Only then can you meet the needs of the inhabitants of the municipalities. It is particularly important in the areas of health, care and school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e636	Quality costs. If there is to be quality in school and care, it does not help to save up to that. Per Sandberg now says that the Progress Party has been forced to take the municipalities seriously when they tell us what the situation is. They've moved, and it's been hard to let go of the original funding system, which the Progress Party wants. But they have been forced, because the situation is that there is not enough quality in the services. The progress party is probably the party that has the most money to distribute in all contexts, but just when it comes to the municipalities, they are extremely economical and careful. They have moved a little, but what is the reason why the Progress Party – when it could have been a majority for more money for better quality, care for the elderly, care for the elderly and school – is not involved, but is more concerned with its own system and itself than with the students and those who need care?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e643	I thought I made it clear in my main post how the Progress Party has assessed the situation with regard to the municipality proposition for 2004. We feel that we have to take responsibility for the priorities of other parties in the local government. We have to take a responsibility, because the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and all the other parties cut school and care in the local government, and use it as a breakpoint to get more money. We do not want to be part of it, and we cannot agree that our elected representatives who are in the same organs should be involved in taking that responsibility. That is why we feel compelled to transfer more money to the municipal sector. But if we had to push even more, we would at least have had a stagnation in what must have been of continued creativity in terms of creating efficiency, competitive outsourcing, the use of the tendering principle, etc. The problem today is the differences in the incomes of the municipalities, and that's where we're going to have to do something, all of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e648	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e651	SV believes that the local economy needs to be strengthened by at least DKK 5 billion, and that is because we want a modern welfare state. The big difference between the parties now is how much we will prioritize welfare and school for all. For SV, freedom and justice are two aspects of the same issue, and a good community economy is necessary for freedom to be effective for all. In a modern municipality, the school is so good and diverse that everyone wants to have their children there. It must be a school for knowledge and for learning. SV believes that it is modern and right that elderly and sick people who need it should be cared for when they need it, and that the sick and disabled should have the opportunity to get up when they want to, go on do when they want and shower when they feel that it is necessary and not when it suits the municipal tour. It's a value choice. These values cannot be right-hand calculators and spreadsheets can help us to do this. Cheap care, cheap school, cheap culture, cheap wages and cheap pensions are not SV's choice. Only grandma makes offers, she gets cheap enough, and then the government can afford it. Only the candidate hangs like a threat over the assistant nurse's head, she jumps fast enough and gets cheap enough for the government. The fact that they are going to risk losing up to NOK 25 000 in retirement, we can't do anything about it, says the municipal minister on the radio this morning early. Yes, we can. We may not be pushing forward privatisation. We can put the value of justice and good care ahead of us. It is not the assistant nurse or grandmother who is for animals, but it lacks courage and ability to choose what is most important, first, and it lacks in the Government today, courage to say no to those who have more than enough, and a warm yes to those who need it more. The nursery contract is now in place. There's room for everyone, and maximum price. It's good for children, and parents and business. A modern society must have safe kindergartens that people can afford to use. In the 1960s, when I went to school, there was one teacher and one class, and everyone was going to learn the exact same thing at the same time. In some municipalities we are now on our way there again. The equality school, which Right has warned against, is becoming a reality in many municipalities because there is no money for anything else. It's a bad school, which SV won't accept for any students or some parents. Two weeks ago, from nine schools in Elverum, parents came to the Stortinget. Their message was: Our children need school books, not photocopies of school books, which their children were offered, and which they brought with them and showed. Our children need different education, not the removal of sharing hours and adapted training. Our children need safe schools and visible adults, and not fewer teachers. Our children need a lot of experience and good experiences in school, because they'll be happy in school and want to learn. Then you can not cut on day trips, camp schools and everything that makes it fun and exciting. They did not ask for the right to opt out of public schools, but they warned that the diversity and freedom of choice in public schools are now at risk, and then they impose legal requirements on content and quality. Nor can the right calculator give us the right answers to the questions from these children and their parents. There are poor children in Norway, and the government’s scheme for local economics neither improves the school nor reduces poverty. The treatment of Storting has made the result a little better. For the poor, the local economy is very important. Nobody needs a modern school more than them, a school that can give them what they can't afford at home. Social assistance should also not be so demanding that it forces parents to refuse to participate in everything from music resorts to leisure activities, so that they must be excluded. The masse of the well-born and stone-rich even more is part of the same pressure that these poor families and children are subjected to. There we have to put our foot down and say that it is more important to secure these children than to secure those who have more than enough of them already. Disabled persons and older people are also completely attuned to the local economy. The Elder Plan has provided many fine dwellings, but too little care inside the dwellings. There are some people who have to do the job there, and more help nurses, more care workers and nurses are needed. Now a lot of them wear themselves out, because they get sick and because there's too few at work. The need for community economics and privatisation means that it will be even fewer. We have received very many serious signals from municipalities, e.g. on the conditions of psychiatric patients. There are also municipalities that cannot afford to charge grants located in the Husbanken to build dwellings, for example: From several municipalities, which are otherwise highlighted as very good savers, they have been very good at cutting their spending, there are frightening reports of very critical conditions for mentally ill people. And what is the Government's answer to that? The fact is, even more pressure on saving and a violent debate on earmarked grants, as if it were helping to push even more tasks within the same tight framework – for that is what it means. You take away money. That Right will do this, I understand, but that Christian People's Party and KS think this is smart, it's hard to understand. The government has promised a lot of tax relief, and the job they do. But there are some taxes that are increasing in this country, and it's the excesses, that are taxes on sickness. SV suggests, and we've been supported by some parties, to create a plan to reduce the excess. It's also a value choice. Taxes shall be in accordance with their ability and not according to their health or needs. It's an important principle. There are many young people in old homes around Norway, and the Stortinget has decided several years ago that in 2005 it should be over. But it doesn't happen. Last year, the Government even removed with the help of the Progress Party the small grant that was there to move them out. And did it make more money, then? Was there more money for housing for the disabled? Or did the municipalities get richer? Not at all. Still, if you become disabled at the age of 20, you might be at home and you can't get out again until you're 40 or 50. It's a heart issue for SV to solve this. That's why we're willing to spend money on it. It has also been a heart issue for SV to put in place a funding system for the heavy users, the multi-disabled. It's a big victory for SV today when we get such a system in place, and it's a big victory for those who need services. The system is in place. The money is on its own pot which cannot be used for other purposes; it shall not be weighed against other tasks or ‘feel’ by anyone. There is agreement on an estimate, which means that more users are coming, or the cost is increasing, compensation will increase. It's a small revolution, and SV will give praise to the government parties and to the Workers' Party, who have turned around and now are involved in this way of financing. Three days ago there was a big headline in the Evening Post about Kaja, who had to move from Ullensaker because Ullensaker couldn't afford to pay her parents care so that they could manage. If we put 300 million. NOK into the resource-intensive user scheme that we have now put in place, it is 100 pst. financing for expenditure above NOK 700000. Then we don't have to see any more notices with Kajas who have to look for a municipality that can afford them. It would be a very important value choice. And $300 million. kr must be possible to put in the budget for the autumn. It's a little discussion about method, who's best. SV supports the Workers' Party's method, but I would like to say that it is, however, secondary when we have got the whole system in place. We mean that method is best. So to the income system else. The government says that there is no link between quality in school and care for the elderly and how much money is spent, so at the next moment to claim that there must be major changes in the income system because the growth municipalities have too little income to be able to provide good quality services. Of course, there's a connection between the money you spend and the quality you get. And of course, SV also agrees that changes should be made to the income system, so that Oslo and Bergen, who have high expenditures on drug care, psychiatry and social assistance, will be helped to do so. It has been promised and committed. But we're not satisfied with the system put forward by the Government, which shows that many other municipalities, which have as big problems as these municipalities, are going to suffer and simply lose money. Therefore, we also ask the Government to come back with a system that hits these municipalities better. Then I will be allowed to address the suggestions that SV has in the vote, and the amended proposal that is on the table in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e687	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e692	There are many parts of this setting where the Working Party and SV stand together. However, let me point out that during the SV's national meeting in March, SV et – I must be allowed to say – did a very large number that SV would reduce the government governance of the municipalities. For its part, the Labour Party believes that there may be good reasons for earmarking, and that is why we are opposed to several of the proposals that the Government is promoting. But there are no parties that are so skeptical about the inclusion of earmarked schemes in today's position as it is SV. Does the representative, Andersen, feel that SV has ‘ met himself in the door’, as Øystein Djupedal acknowledged that there was a danger in one of his several press releases about municipal freedom during SV’s national meeting?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e697	No, I don't feel like we've done it. The most important thing for municipal freedom is that the municipal sector has a good economy, so that there is consistency between the tasks of the municipalities and the income they have, and that we have a well-being and a modern municipal sector that is in line with society else. That's the main task of SV, and that's why we put the most money into the frame. We've been doing that for years. I can take an example of one of what now appears to be being sold as a big municipal freedom by including two million. On a national basis for biodiversity monitoring, and the government’s excuse is that this costs a lot of work on registration. Yes, if we're going to map biodiversity, we're going to have to register it. It goes right into a state database -- it doesn't cost anything to the world. This is about paying the municipalities to do a special task because they might have a biotop they're going to take care of. That's one of the small examples. It has nothing at all to do with municipal freedom to remove such earmarked grants. But good finances in the municipal sector have a lot to do with municipal freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e706	While the Workers' Party has a tradition of managing large and small and has been collective in thoughts, words and deeds, SV has now tried to become more liberal on the left. In its rhetoric SV has begun to say that people are different, have different abilities and needs, and that the public must take this into account, as the Right has always done. SV is trying to form a modern party, a Socialist Left Party that wants reforms and new solutions. But when political choices are to be made, when matters are to be dealt with, when Right-wing jobs for increased freedom of choice, more local self-government and reforms that modernise Norway and give more money back, question old solutions and defend it existing. Why does SV not follow up on their own national meeting decisions on increased local self-government?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e712	It shall be my pleasure to quote from what the SV National Meeting has adopted on this matter, and it shall be stated in the statement: «Member States shall lay down minimum standards which are fundamental to the well-being of people, irrespective of the municipality in which they live. In addition to this, enlargement and government should give the municipalities freedom. Basic rights first, then as much freedom as possible for local priorities. State reforms and obligations shall be fully financed.’;» That means that without money there is no freedom. Those who have debts far above the islands, such as the local government sector in Norway today, have no freedom to spend a year earmarking a few million dollars on some special schemes. There will also be no freedom for people with disabilities if you remove grants to a personal user-controlled assistant, as you will, and just put the money into the frame so that it can reach it as well. No, you get to make some better arguments and a slightly more convincing argument that you're actually occupied with these people, than what the Right does.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e722	It must be allowed to claim that SV seems to have a remarkable simple answer to the challenges posed by Norwegian municipalities: put on more money! SV is the best player in the political race to propose more money to the local government sector, and therefore proposes nearly NOK 9 billion in increase next year. But I want to challenge S.B. whether they see other solutions at all to improve municipal business than just to give the most money. Is it so realistic in EN that there is also a significant need and a potential for efficiency improvement, for modernisation, renewal and conversion within Norwegian local government, or is there only more money that is the solution in the SV's world?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e727	If the Progress Party doesn't understand any of the needs that people have and that are to be solved, I probably can't help them with that. But if we take pure economic theory, the municipal sector is now down to a net operating result of approximately. 0 pst. If it's going to be in a healthy balance, based on the business economy, which maybe the Progress Party accepts is a relatively scientific exercise, the result should be 3 pst. The local government sector must then be allocated approx. $6 billion to get to that balance point. That's the way the numbers speak. This is about balancing tasks and revenues. That's why the sum that Torbjørn Andersen now refers to is right – so if you add to what we have, with what the government has, we get to that sum. But we're going to think about what's going to be the balance point for the healthy economy. It is possible The Progress Party thinks that it costs too much with modern schools and good care for the elderly. It doesn't seem like SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e732	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e735	A recent FAFO report tells us that 1,100 years of teaching can be lost from the fall – 1,100 teachers out into unemployment, in addition to 1,000 new jobs without a job. A NOVA report tells this week about parents with disabled children who struggle for a safer and more careful everyday life for their children and for themselves. It's $150 million. kr, which is used for care pay, is symbolic in relation to the efforts made by this group and in relation to the amount for which they save society. The reason for the redundancies in the school and the reason for scarce resources in the case of care pay is a tight community economy. The center part will have a society where the school will be strengthened, not weak. The center party will have a society where parents with disabled children know that they are being heard and followed up, with safe and manageable arrangements. The center part will have a more dignified care, no more running around after the stopwatch and no more being able to stop and give time to the individual because of the offer documents. Ensuring good local welfare and stimulating more local value creation are two main tasks of the Centre Party. We will return to value creation in the revised national budget. For local welfare, a good community approach is decisive. We want greater freedom for the municipalities. This means coordinating supervision and simplifying reporting. We want to frame according to the problems. This means that municipalities will retain a greater proportion of their income, and we also want municipalities to have greater opportunities than today to print their own taxes for special purposes. The government has made its own arrangement for the municipalities as a historic institution for local self-government. The central part, the working part, SV and the progress part are grouped together on proposals that show that such a characteristic is wrong. The majority suggest major improvements to the Government's plan. The changes that are being made are all moving in our direction and provide a clear improvement for the municipalities and too many individuals throughout the country. There are several to strengthen the local economy by NOK 1.5 billion next year. For the Center Party, this is good, but far from good enough. We're talking about $4 billion. We give priority to the following three main points for 2004: A three-year escalation plan to strengthen the municipal economy. Here you will need to add at least DKK 3 billion per year. A high-end funding for resource-required users. Our model is 100 pst. State funding for costs in excess of NOK 600 000 per year. user. A comprehensive commitment to inter-municipal cooperation. The majority of the majority of the population will today be leading the government to incorporate into its 2004 draft national budget: a strengthening of the local economy in the form of increased frameworks a prudent top funding for resource-required users a more equitable cost key for social services a more fairer extract from the county councils as a result of changes in the division of tasks – negotiations shall begin with each county municipality including a number of ear-taged contributions still remain to be paid to kindergartens, landlines, clay-spheric training, personal assistants and crisis measures implementing a national offensive on ICT-based service developments in municipalities full compensation for the loss of differentiated pay The scheme of the government is rejected by Stortinget. I argued that the Council of State confirmed that she would come back with a strengthened arrangement for the municipalities in the budget of the House. We have in our setup $3 billion more than the Government of Free Income. The remaining billion, we've seen to it. top funding for resource-required users and necessary follow-up to the psychiatry action plan. We are very pleased that a joint committee now will have a decent top funding for resource-requiring users. This should be an estimate permissions such as: suffers a heavy traffic damage in the middle of the year, makes it possible to deal with the situation of both that debt and its dependants, without prejudice to other important tasks. The change in relation to the year and also the change in relation to the Government's proposal for the next year is formidable and very happy, even though the details remain. In the case of a better cost key for social services, the largest cities have now been given their own big city tip and Oslo has a capital tip to compensate for the additional costs incurred, for example: psychiatry. The government has proposed a funding model to incorporate this into the income system. This, says the Government, should be covered by a target of urbanity. This means that the larger municipalities receive funds, while smaller municipalities lose. In such a scheme, there is no link between the municipalities' actual expenditure and what they receive from funds. One can use Verdal and Haugesund as an example, with relatively losses of 5 and 6 million. on the system, although it is known that drug problems exist in both these municipalities. The majority reject the government's proposal and ask for a new model. We realize that getting to fair criteria can lead to problems. Forwarding your Capital Style may still be the option for Oslo. The centre part of my eartag must be capable of being used to implement specific bets, e.g.: major reforms. Audible contributions should also be used to finance offers that exist only in a few municipalities. Our setup ensures more local space for action than the government proposes. The main contribution to this is to strengthen the financial framework. We want to include a bunch of additions, but still keep some that we think are related to special relationships. The government's arrangement is freedom to cut out important offers. The party of the centre takes a distance from such a freedom definition. We don't want, like the government, to force the municipalities and county councils to put down vulnerable offers that they can't afford to take care of. So it applies both to the country lines, which are important vocational training courses, and to personal assistants, which I think should include more. The system has now been statutory for three years, and we have a proposal that an evaluation of it should be carried out, which we hope we will have multiples for today. We regret that today's propensity for musical and cultural balls is being accepted. The staging shall address to the autumn a communication on cultural mediation in the school. It is natural to see the funding in relation to the objectives that will be drawn in that message. We think the government should have done a lot more to keep the system of differentiated employer fees. The central party wants the government to fight for exemptions for the entire municipal sector, and we think there's good reason to be related to it. So it's a system of $2.3 billion in district policy tools for municipalities. If we can't do this, each municipality and county municipality will be compensated for a crown. We have several proposals that are aimed at strengthening inter-municipal cooperation. We worked with the Workers' Party and the SV Searchlight on the negative consequences of competition in the municipal sector in special areas. The ‘Service 2000’ Storting Message had a review of the situation in relation to the competitive outsourcing of care services. We believe that the experience of the clear advice given at the time to oppose the launch of competition has now strengthened. There is even less reason today to suggest that municipalities lose valuable competences and assign lawyers to work on offer documents in areas where it is almost impossible to create specific requirements. We want to add that has stability in relation to its settings. We believe that it is most tidy and safe for both caregivers and relatives that the municipalities themselves are responsible for operating in such an important area. I finally take up the suggestions that the Center Party is on its own. The other suggestions that we're dealing with in multiple games are already recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e812	The representative Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e817	The Central Party proposes the introduction of state top finance for particularly resource-intensive users where the municipality is covered by 100 pst. of expenditure in excess of NOK 600 000 per year. user. The working party believes that such a model will not provide an incentive for municipalities to make good arrangements, which are also as reasonable as possible. We have many bad examples that in such orders costs can run smoothly, because it's the state that pays the entire bill. Therefore, my question to the representative Meltveit Kleppa is: Does the Centre really think that such a model will provide the very best and most reasonable service to users – because it is the users we are concerned with?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e824	I am very pleased that the Labour Party, after several rounds of some wretched suggestions, has now come with a model that will mean a good and prudent arrangement for the municipalities and for the individual. But the central party actually has the confidence in the municipalities that the best arrangement and the best use of the resources they can make of themselves. And using the staff as much as possible is going to be the biggest local challenge. With all the challenges that local authorities already have, we've made it clear that they're covered 100 pst. More than 600,000 kroner, is the best thing – that means all costs in addition to the cost of a health care facility.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e829	The representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa from the Center Party is by no means a spoiled lady. She submits sovereignly in the elite series, together with SV, when it comes to wanting to give the most money to the municipalities. The centre party – as far as I have seen – proposes a growth of around DKK 8 billion for the municipal sector, and doubles with the elegant government proposal for an increase. But I'll ask you, where does the Center Party find containment for all of these extra billions? Is it through increased taxes and taxes on employment and in business, and with it weakening the foundations of the welfare society, or is it cutting in other areas? And who is it that pays for the municipalities to get all these extra billions from the Central Party? And then one more question: is there a limit to the Central Party for what size of the public and municipal sector should really be in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e845	I thank you for the complement. The reason why the Central Party doubles the government's proposal for 2004, is that we actually believe that one of the most important things our society has to hold is a good and free school, it's a more dignified care, it's children's playgrounds for everyone, and it's also a community sector that can stimulate a local business, and that can contribute to strengthening cultural life. Then we have to make some conscious choices. – Yes, that's the match. There is a limit to the Center Party as well, but there should be consistency between the tasks of the municipalities and the funds they are allocated. So ask me where to get the money. Our choice is local welfare over tax havens.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e853	In the setting of the municipal proposal, the central party points to the fact that one is concerned about power transfer from the local population. And the Christian People's Party and I have an understanding of that. The Sjukehus reform has some undesirable consequences, we are aware of that. The result of strong government governance is increased differences, wasted resources, increased bureaucracy and weakened democracy. We're not for that. But then the logic of the Center Party ends. The removal of eartags by the government, which clearly increases local self-government, is called small-mindedness. It's $8 billion! Is this a little bit of a little bit for the Center Party? – Then I understand the increases they make. The central federation of the municipalities, at Olav Ulleren – with a well-known political affiliation – is not in agreement. It's a shame, he says, that the Center Party does not follow up and increase local freedom. When the earring also favors the rich municipalities, and so the differences increase by the fact that poor municipalities only receive 30 pst, this is bad. Is it safest for the Central Party that the state decides? Doesn't the Center Party trust local people, really?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e860	Now we get a long list from Apelthun's representative, "Seal of what state takeover really means." So Anita Apelthun Seele is part of a government party and can help correct the madness that's created when it's about hospital structure and content all around the country, with the uprising that's now around, and then she doesn't do anything about it. So she makes it like 250 million. kr – what is left of the government’s ear-marked addition, most of the Christian People’s Party itself have been in the process of maintaining the child care allowance – giving local freedom of action. What local freedom of action does this give to the municipal sector, against the increase of the Central Party, of $4 billion?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e865	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e868	The government's proposals in this matter are both the greatest promise of local democracy in recent times and the greatest economic promise for the municipalities in very many years. Left is very pleased with that. Not least, the Left is satisfied with the change of system that is included in the proposal for reduced ear marking, a matter that many parties have spoken about for a long time, but not so much. Unfortunately, we see that it was not possible this time for any party to follow their own software declarations. The brakes are set from the opposition, but the direction is fixed, and the Left and Government will continue to be at the head of local self-government. Earmarking is well intended and can be used in specific cases to solve limited tasks. But it's a myth that ear marking leads to greater similarity. On the contrary, it appears, for example: in the National Audit Office's analysis, that ear marking strengthens the richest municipalities. Government health for well-being, whether it's school, care for the elderly, kindergartens or something else, is good. But earmarks command municipal plans and destroy local priorities. It gives the citizens an rational use of money and poorer results. The party of progress is in one class in relation to local democracy, with its desire for state funding of all important welfare arrangements. With their solutions, local democracy disappears as a meaningful change. All other parties use great words about increasing local democracy and more freedom. Not least, it was important to note that the Socialist Left Party's national meeting in our country went a long way in taking a given with its own past and practice. It didn't last long, and with today's attitude, the Socialist Left Party has its national meeting passed again as the most meaningless paper decision in recent Norwegian history. There is not a trace of trusty rendition. The Labour Party and the Center Party also go directly against what they say they will do, and what they themselves have done in government. It's disappointing. The basis for this betrayal of our own alleged ideals is – as always – economic, but it doesn't work. One can always claim that local authorities are too small, that measures are not adequately funded. The point is that the removal of earmarks in itself provides a better economy. It binds fewer resources to actions on the side of local priorities, to applications, reporting, ownership and supervision. The opposition is failing local democracy. The imbalances in the local economy have their roots in many years of underfunded reforms, and the Labour Party in particular has to take responsibility for them – if not on its own. They have been at the forefront of good reforms, but have funded them in ways that have created problems. This is a common recognition today, and everyone sees the need to correct the imbalance. As a result, the government has prioritised municipalities within tight frameworks this year, and to an even greater extent next year. As large as the municipal sector is, of course, it cannot be decoupled from the major economic contexts. Local authorities, such as industry and families, have an interest in the overall economy and in securing jobs and creating new jobs. Reduced interest rates and weaker exchange rates give large positive results. This recognition also has the Labour Party and the Center Party when they are in government. It is only to look at the numbers in the municipal and state budgets they have been proposing and adopting in previous years. Therefore, it is pathetic to see the overwhelm policy these parties now stand for. It's opposition policy without trust. Today they can promise billions in addition to the great promise of the government for the next year. The back of the medal we'll see about the municipal elections when the entire state budget is on the agenda. The Labour Party has also given priority to the fight against unemployment in the revised national budget and has not added additional funds to the municipalities. Since the Progress Party has promised to overthrow the Government in the fall, it may be interesting to see how a government from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, with the support of the Progress Party, will cover the billion-lifts that are flying today. Although the Government's reforms for reduced ear marking and increased freedom of action are not fully agreed, one direction is set out. It's positive, and the left will be on it for us to go several steps in the next round. Knowledge is evenly distributed in the country, and those closest to the challenges are closest to solving them when they have the freedom to do so. And that freedom should be given to local politicians. We trust that our local politicians will fight for the things they think are the most important to ensure the welfare of their citizens in their municipalities. The cooperative government is the government of the time for decentralization and fortification of local democracy. It's left-wing proud of. The size is held in more scans for central orientation than is good, and what is declared policy, but the left should be on such that these too fall at later conditions. To the left, the proposals made by the Right and the Christian People's Party, and they proposed these two parties, staring.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e898	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e901	Often I am very uncertain about where the Left stands in politics, a party that calls itself a socially liberal party with freedom for individuals, where happiness and well-being are the great goal. Well, I'm not going to advertise the Left Party program anymore. But I wonder when I read the ideological basis of the party and at the same time see what the Left stands for in practical politics. The Government and the Government of Solberg have put forward a municipal proposal to promote the launching and privatisation of public services, which the representative Vihovde then hails from the pulpit. In addition, a municipal economy will be created next year that will make the situation in the municipal sector even worse than it is in the current year. Is this what the Left puts in the formulation of building good society and establishing a liberal future?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e910	It would not have been against me if the representative Upbeøen Hansen had done a little more advertising for the Left's principle. The left actually thinks that the sense is evenly distributed, we have faith in local democracy, we believe that when a decision is made locally, each citizen has the ability to influence his local politicians to make the choices. And if they don't like the choices they make, yes, they re-select and they replace them. We're concerned that our local elected representatives are going to use the money they have, the way they want to prioritise, and if they want to put out competition or privatize, if they think it's best for their citizens, we're going to bug them in it. Then I would like to say: in 1996, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party were with and pressure the greatest uplift in the municipal sector, with 5 billion kroner. Then press a government named Jagland. That's what I'm getting off. The page number has been increased by one. This time, the government is actually adding the largest lift that has ever been installed by a government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e921	Firstly, I now expect representatives of the government parties – among them the Left – to confirm that they are behind the kindergarten agreement, and that they do not mention the financial solution of it as being contrary to what we have actually agreed on, and I know that the representative Wehovde has also been involved. Secondly, I expect a big-time representative who says he's quoting what other parties have meant, actually knows what they stand for. I can refer to the setting, where it is referenced, among other things. is in the programme adopted by SV at its national meeting: ‘Statistical reforms and obligations shall be fully financed.’. That's a top score. But an upliftment for local democracy can't be putting even more problems into the same framework, as inclusion means? The return question to the left must be: why does the Left not trust that local politicians can manage a larger part of the entire economy, for the benefit of school and care?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e935	Well, the left wants our local populace to get a bigger share to distribute. It gets them with the arrangement that the Government makes in the municipal proposition. But at the same time, we have to ensure that the jobs are there, because they secure tax income for the municipality. And we have to secure family. It'll also give money in the municipal fund. Kommune-Noreg is satisfied that one has secured that interest is going down and that one has secured a weaker price. It gives money in the municipal fund and secures tax revenue. The left is on the kindergarten agreement and the funding of him. The left is very pleased – I didn't get it – that the Labour Party has said that when there is full child-care coverage in 2006, they will join in ensuring that the money that is now earmarked for the kindergartens goes into the frame. We're good at that, because that's the piece of sigra. But I'm not happy with all of the other earmarks that one has taken out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e942	I would like to ask the Left to confirm or cancel that they are the same as the following: To get the activity you want, you should be able to use the keys on the left hand side for a period of time. Audible contributions shall be available when the surcharge is due to expenditure incurred by a few municipalities. If Wehovde is composed in this thought, which is also behind the Government, why this noise in relation to the music and cultural spheres, in relation to the personal assistant system and in relation to the crisis center? Is it really so that she thinks that the supply of these areas now is so good that the municipalities should be forced to cut them, for the sake of other tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e949	The left is, of course, behind what is stated in the proposition, that concessions that go to a few municipalities for tasks they carry out on behalf of the state should continue to be ear-tagged. But when the representative Meltveit Kleppa talks about music balls and assistants, they're legal. Why can't the municipalities use these money freely to organize it the way they think is best? I want to challenge the Center Party's representatives here today. There's a very good cooperation between the Center Party and the Left Local. Why can't we fight for the things we think are important either – fighting for culture, fighting for a better school, fighting for music balls – as we have done locally, and getting the freedom to spend the money the way we think is best, without having legislation, supervision, applications and reports that prevent us from doing so?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e957	The cord shift is over. The President has previously made an incorrect advertisement. I'm sorry about the president. The first speaker now is Steinar Bastesen, then Karl Eirik Schjødt-Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e962	It was my fault, I suppose, since I was not present in the Chamber when the president announced, but it should be. I've been on the list of speakers and I'm happy for that. In 5 minutes, there's not much we can say. The Coastal Party is not in this committee, but we can tell what we vote for and what we vote against, and as far as possible, justify this. The coastal party supports proposal No. 13, from the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, that the grant for camp school should be included in the framework grant and that the grant for teacher remuneration should be earmarked. We assume that it is the responsibility of the municipalities to provide a free camper school stay. It was the Right who went high on the track a few years ago and declared that the teachers would now get a deserved and necessary paylift. When it's in a box, they won't guarantee that the municipalities will be able to cover their increased payroll costs. It gives a little credible impression. Now the municipalities are telling teachers. Several thousand newly educated people are out of work, and the loss in schools is to be covered by the use of pensioners. I'm wondering what G's going to look like, when the pensioners aren't allowed to earn over a certain amount of G before they're drawn into social security. This is hardly the way to go to get a better school. With regard to the coverage of the salary increases for which the State still has the responsibility for the dealer, it should be lacking that the municipalities should not be compensated for the costs that the State imposes on the municipalities. I don't understand. We therefore support proposal No. 3, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. We support proposal No. 4, on the evaluation of the system of user-led assistants. It looks so far to have been successful. We support the proposal No. 7 and 8 by the Party of Presidents and the Socialist Left, and the proposals Nos. 9 and 10, from the Workers' Party. We are against proposal No. 12th@item: inlistbox The coastal party wishes to abolish taxes on owner-occupied dwellings. We don't want taxes on necessities. Why does it have to be taxed? We don't understand. We also feel that it is totally unreasonable that there are different practices from one municipality to another. We support proposal No. 16th@item: inlistbox We believe that part of the corporate tax should be due to the municipality in which the company is located. We support the proposal No. 17-20, by the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposals Nos. 28-31, from the Party of Presidents, proposals Nos. 38 to 40, from the Socialist Left and proposal No. 42, from the Center Party. The coastal party believes it is important to strengthen the local economy in order to ensure the best possible offer for its citizens. Now the municipalities have been starving for many years. It has provided more expensive and poorer services for most people — increased self-esteem, reduced provision of home care, reduced provision for disabled children and their parents. Yeah, where are they gonna cut? Those who sit on municipal boards, cutlery. That's basically what politicians do. They're sitting and kissing. But where are they going to cut? Well, they have to cut off the offers for those who are the weakest. We need to support the liquidation of excessive bureaucracy, but the transformation that is now taking place in many municipalities goes beyond that. Both regulatory and non-statutory services are being reduced, while the proportion of services is increasing. This hits those who have the least, hardest. A society that does not sufficiently care for its weakest seems destructive to everyone. The size of the population tends to grips with individual issues on which it is focused in the media. It is unworthy that the weakest must stand up in Tabloid to meet their needs. It's through good municipal policy we reach everyone. Therefore, the Coastal Party agrees with those who want to ensure the best possible everyday life for most people, through good municipalities with flexible offers tailored to individual needs. I am more in line with SV than the Advance Party in terms of the local economy. We can look at the municipality of Nittedal that has just had a choice. There was little voter turnout. That's what I'm afraid of. We're in an election year. I can't see that this government is doing enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e992	Public welfare is crucial for the quality of life of each of us. Therefore, the ability of municipalities to provide good welfare offers is also so important to all of us. This is why it becomes so serious when municipalities are faced with an economic situation where they are forced to reduce school provision and care for the elderly. The economy of municipalities has been greatly worsened in recent years. The municipalities now have a total deficit of nearly NOK 11 billion, and almost six out of ten municipalities need to downgrade the welfare offer this year. This is a misguided policy – not from the municipalities, but from the government parties and the Progress Party. They could have chosen to spend more money on school and care for the elderly, as the Workers' Party has done, but they chose differently. The money was rather used for tax havens. With the signals coming from the management of the Christian People's Party this winter, we thought there would be a strong strengthening of the municipalities in the arrangement for next year. The more disappointing it is that the government has not provided for any actual strengthening of the local government's economy. The government has not now given priority to school and care for the elderly. More offers could be made. So the government parties are trying to give the impression that it's taking money from music schools, from tenure schools and from crisis centers for mistreated that municipalities are getting so much more freedom of action. No, this won't give you one more penny. Increased freedom of action, on the other hand, requires more money. Therefore, the Workers' Party proposes that municipalities receive NOK 3 billion more next year than the government has promised. It's gross. It means, for example, About 31 million. kr more to a municipality such as Fredrikstad than that resulting from the constitution of the Government. The working party chooses a better offer for schoolchildren and older people rather than for tax havens. At the same time, we have to correct the great lag in the finances of the municipalities. That is why we propose to put in place a plan for the creation of this imbalance. The working party is concerned that the public sector must constantly renew and carry out its tasks in the best possible way. However, the government suffers from the misunderstanding that the word ‘conversion’ is the same as privatisation. Before the election Kjell Magne Bondevik wrote a newspaper post, where he struck: ‘KrF will be careful to allow commercial operators to take over comprehensive parts of the services in the health and social sector.’ The Labour Party agrees. The more eye-catching it is that the Christian People’s Party, together with the Right Party and the Advance Party, now writes that they are “positive for the municipalities to assess the outsourcing of competition also in the core areas” – that is, the opposite of what Bondevik said before the election. The municipality of Asker has tried it. They have put grandmothers and grandparents out to lay with those who charge the least to care for them. We all know about the care scandal that the Right Party and the Advance Party made themselves responsible for. The working party strongly disagrees that care-seeking elderly people should be used for test projects. We therefore ask the Government to stop further outsourcing of health and care for the elderly until we have a thorough assessment of what this means, both for those who are going to use the service and for the employees. Finally, the Labour Party agrees that changes in the income system are needed to meet specific challenges in the major cities. The Workers' Party has given clear support to the strengthening of the local economy in Oslo and Bergen, outlined in the proposal. But we have difficulty understanding that the government calls it a strengthening of the big cities when most of those today defined as big cities get less with the government's arrangement: the drama 12 million. kr less, Skien 10 mill., Fredrikstad 9 mill., Kristiansand 7 mill. Now the government has a tradition of calling a cut for a bet, but those who live in the big city of Kristiansand get a worse offer with the government's plans. This is why the Workers' Party states that the Government has done too bad a job and must present a better system in the budget for the autumn. So maybe there's reason for people in the biggest cities to notice that the community structure of the Workers' Party means 104 million. kr more to Bergen, in addition to the Workers' Party's support for the strengthening of the areas of intoxication and psychiatry, 33 million. kr more to Kristiansand, and Oslo gets 215 million. kr more with the Labour Party structure than with the Government. Then the government is going to explain to the citizens of Oslo that their so-called big stake for Oslo is in giving 187.5 million. NOK and take back SEK 182 million. kr. Then it's going to be about the same thing that would have followed with the price adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1021	I became in a better and better mood than winter and spring. I heard more and more parties talk about greater freedom of action for the local government sector, the need to re-establish municipal autonomy and the need to find new forms of governance and not to govern in such detail in relation to the local government sector. Jens Stoltenberg made self-recognising contributions to the national meeting of the Workers' Party. He said that the party gave double signals, that it was important to clean it up. It was important to engage in a different type of dialogue with the local government sector than it had today, and to increase freedom. Øystein Djupedal tried with a number of games and curvatures to talk about freedom of choice and how SV now changed its whole strategy and thought. That's why in the government we were quite optimistic about the fact that when we were going to promote a plan, a promise, and some key principles for how we were to govern the relationship between state and municipality, we were going to experience that it was something that a broad majority actually agreed to, not only verbally, but also in practice. Verbally, the Government has joined these main lines. In practice, I must still be allowed to question whether that is what you are doing, and about these speeches from Øystein Djupedal and Jens Stoltenberg actually announced a new way of thinking in order to meet the needs of their own parties' municipal politicians, together with the municipal politicians of all other parties. Our desire for more freedom of action, less detailed management and other ways of having a dialogue rather than a regulatory management of the municipal sector is justified by the need to use the freedom of action, respect and belief in municipalities to get better services, services that are more adapted to the individual user, a public sector that sees the coherence of several actions around the individual user, and to accept that the great differences we have in municipal size, and the great differences we have in geography in this country, also provide the basis for us to give equivalency, can be different in different places in this country, and not A4 solutions. It's important because we need a richer local democracy, a local democracy that recruits local politicians who are willing to work in the big fields as well. And to me, it's a danger signal when a number of councillors and others around report from their municipalities that the nicest, the most significant, the heavy politicians, no longer work with the large welfare areas in the municipal sector, with school issues or with kindergartens, with child protection or with the issue of elderly care. Now they're working on those sectors where there's still a degree of freedom left, because there they can de facto run politics. We need to bring more of the policy back, not because it is important to do it for the politicians, but because it is important to do it in respect of a municipality being a relevant level of administration. And we have to do it to make sure that we get better services, because I'm of the opposite opinion of what the Progress Party's arrangement is based on, that the state is going to do the whole of the individual user better. No, I think the municipal sector can be better at doing that, and I actually think that in this country we have a lot of capable, up-and-coming municipal politicians who as well as we in this room are able to see what the needs of the inhabitants of each municipality are. What we have presented in the municipal economic proposition – the municipal proposition, to which it was modernised under the previous government – has a pervasive philosophy. It's not just a matter of earmarked funds, but it's a pervasive philosophy of how we're going to deal with government's governance towards the local government sector. Therefore, this is related to what we proposed in the coordination of work, social security and social services, where we, among other things, proposed that we, together with the KS, establish a framework agreement on the front line offices and individual agreements with each municipality, in order to ensure that this is done, in order to create a better type of cooperation and a different form of solution than regulation. It's related to the arrangement we made for kindergartens, and it's related to our choice in Rusreform II. We think you should see the whole thing in relation to a drug addict, you also have to see housing, you have to see after protection, you have to see the context of the whole service at once. We therefore believe that Rusreform II should be transferred to the municipal sector. And then we should have taken on the challenge that some small municipalities would have problems and should have bought services from others. They should not prevent drug users from getting a good offer where there are most of them, namely in the largest cities. That is why we have proposed simplifications in the school system, which we are pleased that we have largely joined in the Stortinget. I'm glad that SV in that area – and I want to pay tribute for it – has proved more forward-looking and more in line with what they themselves said at their national meeting, than some other parties have done. That's what we also did in the presentation of the city announcement, which also outlines how development should be in relation to the largest cities, where precisely space to do something for the weakest, space to see the whole of the challenge of better services will be better. It's a paradox to me that the day we presented the big city message, all the answers to the opposition's questions were in a way 'Show me the money', after a slogan from the title of a film a few years ago. When we showed the money, you couldn't quite decide whether it was good or not in this room. We'll also have new opportunities to do that later. We presented the message because we wanted to meet some of the challenges that have been facing in recent years that we have emptied the municipalities of relevance and real political content, but also because we have weakened the ability to provide good services locally. We have weakened the possibility of good, efficient local services. Former Secretary of State at the Prime Minister's office, Jonas Gahr Støre, has traveled around the country and the beach and has deluded the municipalities about the so-called great coup d'état, which has based itself, among other things. the gradual weakening of the municipal sector, in order to take over the tasks of the State. That's not what the government is doing. We have a very clear, conscious view that we want to strengthen the municipal sector and strengthen its ability to make decisions. It could be that Gahr Støre has an in-depth knowledge of the internal processes of other parties, and that it may be one of the reasons. So, as I said, verbal support has been given, and I am delighted. I just hope that the verbal connection also means that when the decisive choices are put forward gradually in the Stortinget, you also follow it up, because I do not think that the most practical follow-up that is in the municipal proposition, namely the issue of earmarked schemes, has been particularly well implemented in relation to the advance announcements that various parties have had to believe more in local self-government. So what's the objection? I've kind of thought I'd read with critical glances through to see if there's anything we haven't done well enough if we're going to get to these inclusions. Is there something we have to do to allow me to integrate these things into the next year? There's almost no recipe on it. The Labour Party says full funding. In these areas, there is no new reform. There are no new questions on the list we have. Some of them are issues that have existed for 20 years with earmarked schemes. The landlines are fully funded at the moment we input them. They have been paid in full when we put them into the municipal economy, and if it was the full funding that was the problem, the Workers' Party should have voted for the inclusion of the landlines when all the money to run them is in place. In the case of camp schools, no one here has thought that the state should cover all the costs of camp schools. The clay school bit is there to support individual elements of the offers related to camp schools, the piece that came in last year, compensation for the end of the parental payment, and then the support for teacher pay in the past. It would be a whole new principle that was introduced if we were to complete camp schools in this way. And to take the environmental example: what actually happens now is that we leave much more of the responsibility for the environment to the municipal sector. We have introduced new criteria for the environment and agriculture, just to make it clear that environmental issues are growing in the future in the municipal sector. However, a number of the proposals that the Workers' Party is in favour of themselves proposed inclusion in the Community economicproposition for 2000. I voted in favour of them, with the exception of the proposal on landlines, because at that time it was uncertain how the county sector would handle it. Now I believe that the county councils have made a good arrangement for cooperation that will handle this. But at the time, it wasn't about full funding. There's nothing about it in the proposition at the time. What is true is that from 1995 to 2000, with successive governments, but the Labour Party in important parts of this period, no earmarked grants were price adjusted. So the real value of these went down. After presenting the inclusion plan for 2001 in spring 2000, the Stoltenberg government, with Minister of Finance Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen as a relatively tone-setting politician, did not adjust the price of the earmarked grants. It is in 2002 and 2003 that we have fully adjusted the price of the earmarked grants. So it would never be a better basis to input and integrate when we've actually adjusted prices in the last two years and followed up, instead of what we've done in the past few years, gradually lowered the value under previous governments. Let me say a little bit about frames. I think it's interesting. I am very happy that you also managed to give the local government more money, despite the fact that someone always thinks I am not. I'm just terribly concerned that it means that you have to prioritize something else, that you have to find room for it within a responsible economy. I see that there are many areas for which the local government sector is responsible, where there is a need to focus more on. In the scheme we have for 2004, we have proposed the highest growth ever proposed in a municipal proposition. I remember it. That's the starting point for what we put on the table. So I think it's an interesting observation to record that the relative distance between parties is going to be maintained, so that some at the top of what we've suggested, plus the exact same amount they added last year. When you increase and you give more, you have to increase the same amount to keep the relative distance. So in this arrangement, we're going to give more money in free income, but it's about the level of what the Workers' Party had in its alternative budget last year. Nevertheless, you're going to add additional money to the top of it. There's going to be a little toy box, I think, if you don't go in and see that at the bottom of the scheme for 2004, there's a significantly better setup, especially for free income, than what's been in previous years. In addition, I have to say that when I sat and heard Jens Stoltenberg's defense of why they had not put money in the revised, namely that they're just revising, and that we're launching our main lines every single harvest in the budget, and there had the $3 billion more, I think it was a little strange. That leads me to the question: Where was Jens Stoltenberg when a proposal was to be considered in this Chamber that we should be required by the Government to allocate more money in the revised national budget of the Government because of the church economy? It does not rhyme in the explanations of the Workers' Party at the moment. But it was well that at that time the temptation was too great, the temptation to plague the Christian People's Party a little extra by rubbing salt in the wounds because the Church also had problems. It is possible that the Church has no problems now. I understand what's going on, having to take the financial responsibility inwards and see that we can't afford everything. But in fact, I think it's a good idea to give a picture that the Stortinget is a playhouse when just two months ago you spent a lot of time and effort in this room to plague the Christian People's Party with something and impose on the Government something that fortunately you didn't get a majority in favour of, and so you're not prepared to pay in connection with the revised national budget. I think that a little bit of that game we might well have left out to focus so strongly on. I want to underline a couple of other things. The Russian and psychiatry criteria have been a long and difficult matter to deal with. I remind you that they have been suggested and taken up a number of times. The last working party government said this is impossible, so we don't have to do anything about it. That was in practice the answer we received every time we asked questions about these in Stortinget. So we've said that it's possible to do it, but we're not going to be able to make the perfect system in this area at any time. But the costs are there, the problems are there, and we have technical evidence that there are in particular the four largest cities that have the biggest costs associated with this. We've created a two-part system. One is an urbanity criterion, and the other, which also affects the impact between municipalities, is that we have weighed the cost of social assistance as they actually are today, because the key there was based on what the situation was in 1993. So that means that in that area it looks like the municipalities that have a lot of immigrants get more money than those who don't have it, for immigrants count and will count more of the expenditure statistics in the years to come. Of course, I'll go over and see if we can do anything more with such a model. I hope that we stand firm by doing something with regard to the big cities, that we stand firm by actually making it possible for them to solve the problems, and that it should be part of our income system that we should also take this into account. There are also many other criteria that give a little bit of a wrong look, because no criteria are perfect in the income system, which we would have seen if we had gone into them thoroughly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1061	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1064	The opinion on the municipality structure for 2004 is alarming and, to this extent, serious. The Government does not have a majority for its proposal for a financial framework. The majority in Stortinget want a greater financial freedom of action. The government does not have a majority for its proposals on drugs and psychiatry. It's too badly prepared. The government does not have a majority for its resource-intensive user solution. The Storting wants a more fair solution. The government does not have a majority for its solution for a differentiated employer’s fee. The size would like to assess its continuation in the municipal sector. So the government doesn't have a majority on any of the central points. It has hardly happened before. Is the Council of State just as satisfied with the defeat that the rapporteur of the matter was at the opening of the debate? I note that the Council of State ignores the tax failure that has occurred in 2002 and 2003, and the increase in the deficit when assessing the need for the level of the municipal economy for 2004. Otherwise, I allow myself to say that I think it's very rough – very rough – when a councillor from Stortinget's pulpit allows himself to call the Stortinget a playhouse. I hope that the Council of State will withdraw.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1078	I don't call the Storting in general a toy box. I also think the Labour Party should explain why they should spend extra money on us in the revised national budget in a separate decision in April/May, which they themselves do not follow up on in the context of the revised national budget. I think it really requires an explanation from the Workers' Party. What's different about what it was at that time? It becomes a little bit of a worry to me if the Workers' Party is so close to the delivery of the revised national budget as the debate in this big deal was actually, not still on its proposal, since the economic outlines and everything that is now used to explain why it is not, were actually relatively well known at that time. As for the question of whether I am satisfied, I must say that no, of course I would have been most satisfied if everything we had proposed had been adopted. But we accept that we're a minority government. In the spring of 2001, the Government had no proposal for its municipal framework. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1089	Let me first say to the Council of State that she should not doubt that the Progress Party shares the Government's view that an urbanity criterion must be introduced. The reason why we want a little more time and a separate case in parallel to the state budget is that we want to focus on exactly what the Council of State concluded with in its contribution. There are also other criteria that are not perfect and create discrimination in the income system. The Progress Party will now have an opportunity in this matter to consider whether it is possible to use other criteria to reach the major cities, but also to take more care of the medium-sized cities. The Council of State is also very concerned with earring and inclusion and safeguarding the right of self-determination or autonomy. The Council of State says that the Government has listened, and my question to the Council of State is: Listen to who? Those who are engaged in camp schools, etc., signal a fear that the municipalities will remove the offer if you include it. [[President clubs]] That's what the majority here is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1098	The President must inculcate that you relate to the speaking time allocated to the lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1101	One minute is a short time. It is very difficult to take a full review of all the criteria in the income system and see if they should be different, and then deliver a case for the autumn of the Stortinget. I am pleased that the Progress Party now clearly confirms that they are for there to be an urbanity criterion in the income system, and that we therefore know that the majority of what has been discussed, relating to drugs and psychiatry, actually has the majority's support in this room. Getting a review of all the other criteria I think is impossible in this short term, but it's one of the most important things for us to get the mandate we want to have, to reduce a new sample to go through the income system, go through both the weighting and all the criteria. However, postponing the implementation of the Russian and psychiatry criteria – which is the case as a majority on the Stortinget despite everything in connection with the review of the Rattsø Committee seven years ago had been pointed out too badly – I think it would be very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1108	The big difference between Right and SV is that Right will make municipalities and welfare cheaper, and SV will make municipalities and welfare better. The goal to which the right is directed, we can see from the main figures in the Norwegian economy – public welfare and public consumption are falling systematically and are now very low in relation to private consumption. This is the Right Recipe. This makes the care of the elderly worse and the poorer schools and more poor. But here's the Right and SV disagree. Now it's like the Storting today is going to decide that the municipal sector, and hence the schools and care, is going to get 1.5 billion more than the council had planned. The main question then is: will the Council of State take up the calculator again and dissuade itself from what the majority of the Grand Duchy believes is necessary in order to strengthen these areas, or will the Council of State loyally follow up on the framework to be adopted by the Grand Duchy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1120	I disagree with the premise, that there is necessarily a contradiction between making things cheaper and making them better, in the public sector. I think we have been documented so clearly that within the sum of money we spend in the municipal sector, in a lot of municipalities, there is actually room to improve the quality of the services you already provide. It is a key finding in relation to the review carried out by 153 municipalities and urban areas in the efficiency networks. Within the same resource use, there is so much difference both in school and in care for the elderly, that if we get better at learning from each other, we actually manage to make services better within the same resource framework. It is also true that there is real growth in the local economy to the next year — a real increase that goes beyond demographic changes — which means that there is no basis for maintaining services at about the same level as this year and that it is an efficiency potential.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1127	First, I want to give advice to the Council of State. I argued that she showed greater respect for the strong commitment that we have, and that is in The Greatness of the Plural Now, to secure the most necessary means for the municipalities. I argued that she understood that the expression that was used here about that work. So to a theme that she didn't come up with in her post, that's intermunicipal cooperation. There are many municipalities that now feel that the stimulus from the department’s side of that field is stimulation of aggregation. The centre party is busy stimulating inter-municipal cooperation without the threat of aggregation hanging over it. We have made four proposals in this setting, on a national experience base, on access schemes, on the review of local authorities with a view to removing obstacles to inter-municipal cooperation and on a national offensive for ICT-based service development. Are there any proposals that the Council of State might intend to follow up on?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1138	We fully agree that intermunicipal cooperation is important in order to improve services. We have to do something, not least with vulnerable areas in the municipal sector. For example, where there is one alone with responsibility in a municipality, the administration gets broken. It will be a huge challenge for the small municipalities in the years to come. We therefore work a lot to stimulate intercommunal cooperation. There is a division in terms of economic stimulation, so that the statesmen within the greater freedom they have to withhold some of the earmarked funds have an opportunity to give money to stimulate this. It's on a more general basis. The Ministry also supports some inter-municipal projects which are pilot projects from which others will learn. We're working on establishing experience, we're calling it the national experience base, but we've been doing this for a while now. We've been working on collecting experience from this, in collaboration with the statesmen. I will be allowed to stress that the main challenge for inter-municipal cooperation today is the lack of VAT refund, and then the logic of the Centre Party is not quite clear on what is in the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1149	The Solberg Council has been talking about its policy for a long time, at the limit of a lecture. Then she took the time to refer to this assembly, or parts of it, as a play box. She did that twice. So many have been said, but the necessary clarification is missing. We need clarification on what is the main issue in the debate today: Will the Government comply and follow up on what is the will here in the Chamber – that the municipalities will have more money next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1156	I think we disagree a little about what should be the main question in this case. I think the freedom of action had been a very important key question. As regards the local economy and the future approach, the Government will endeavour to follow up all decisions taken, both the decisions taken in this case and the decisions taken with effect for the next year's budget, in the context of the revised national budget. At the same time, we have an obligation to secure a budget for the harvest that balances increased expenditure and the willingness to finance these increased expenditures. It's going to be a challenge to get to. That means that we are going to strive to follow up the decisions taken by a majority on the Stortinget. But I think we all have to realize that when we make a lot of decisions, when different parties are behind them and decisions are to be financed for the harvest, it's not certain that how we finance them, is going to be what you appreciate the most, because here the opposition will crack considerably.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1165	The cord shift is over. The President did not intervene when Parliament was referred to as the ‘toy box’. The President should have done that, and he will now conclude in retrospect that this is not appropriate language usage.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1170	In yesterday's edition of Today's Business we could read that 'never before has it been worse in the local economy'. The municipalities are ‘on the rim’, the profit margin drops, the service offer falls, the level of activity has to fall, and the change has to continue. It was a bit of a tirate of a misdemeanour description that was reproduced in Today's Business – and all this according to KS's statements. But we shouldn't buy this politically-conditional description of misery that's being suggested here without reservation. The reality is that Norwegian municipalities today have more money at their disposal than ever before, and even more money at their disposal will be allocated to the municipality sector next year, according to the 2004 municipal economic plan, which we are dealing with here today. The real growth in municipal income has increased steadily throughout all years. Nevertheless, there is a depressing picture of the economy of the municipal sector, and several political parties are threatening and fighting to be the best of the class in proposing maximum allocations to the municipalities. But the question we should also ask is not how many billion more we will give to the municipalities, but what we can do to ensure that Norwegian municipalities can operate more efficiently, and at least as effectively as in the private sector – because it does not power the municipalities today. The effectiveness of the private sector is continuously improved because it is necessary to deal with a competitive and market situation where the main instruments are price and quality. However, such market exposure is not the case in the case of service production in the municipal sector. In the absence of efficiency-enhancing competition, Norwegian municipalities have become increasingly less cost-effective in terms of private business – this being because the majority of municipalities continue to be organised and operated in 2003 on the basis of medieval principles, based on a system of privileges and monopolies and a barrier to competition. This is absurd! For too many years, the Norwegian municipal sector has been able to absorb increasing inefficiency by shifting cost increases to the state and the municipality’s inhabitants. The biggest threat to municipalities and the future of the welfare society is hardly due to a lack of money to operate the public welfare services in the municipality. On the other hand, the most serious threat comes from driving forces which doubt an old-fashioned ideological view of the excellence of public monopolies and which counteract efficiency-enhancing competition in municipal activities. However, the forthcoming change in the VAT compensation law is now a small step in the right direction with regard to the dismantling of the public monopoly position in public-funded service production. However, VAT compensation is so small when, in most municipalities, there is no local political will to implement active use of competition and more freedom of choice. There is a desperate need for more rational thinking and a more modern perspective on how the future municipality can best be organised and carry out its tasks. This means that we have to abandon the existing monopoly philosophy and invest in the philosophy of competition and the market. Here we are strongly dissenting politically. In Norway, therefore, in order to speed up competition, we should introduce a right to challenge, which, unlike the Danish model, must lead to an obligation for municipalities to accept the provision of services from an external operator if this offer is qualitatively satisfactory and, at the same time, more cost-effective than municipal operation under their own direction. I believe that by law we should prohibit the public sector from operating as a monopoly, at least in those areas where it is possible to create a market. It is one of the great paradoxes of our time that monopoly thinking in the public sector continues to have such strong footholds among both politicians and trade unions. But it is this old-fashioned monopoly idea that in the long term represents the welfare society and the biggest future threat and challenge of the municipalities, and it is not primarily a lack of money, as the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre believe. Here they're taking a lot of mistakes, and it'll be guaranteed to show.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1192	I just want to say, Congratulations, Erna! Congratulations on your well-managed Right-Policy! When schools call for more teachers, so that they can provide students with a real individual follow-up, while newly educated teachers do not get a teacher's job, it's just to congratulate them on well-managed right-hand policies. When there are over 6,000 homeless people, while housing is stagnating, and we have 6,000 unemployed people in the construction industry, it's just to congratulate them on well-managed Right Policy. When the right-hand government spends about 400 million. On poverty reduction, while the richest shareholders receive DKK 1.5 billion in tax credits, it is only to congratulate themselves on well-managed Right-wing policies. It's a good right-wing policy that this year we're going to buy hamburgers, clothes, porn leaves and cell phones with polyphonic ringtones for 22 billion dollars more than last year, while public consumption, i.e. teachers of our kids, leisure clubs, follow-up of drug users, nursing homes and home help services, is something we can't afford to spend more than $1 billion more this year than last year. That means we have 22 times more in consumption than we use on welfare and security. This is the increase from last year to this year — all due to the implementation of the Right Calculator Policy. The Community's share of the value added here in the country shall be reduced and reduced. Public schools, public transport and home help services shall lag behind private wealth, a wealth that becomes skids and skids distributed and creates more poor people in need of more public assistance, from the community, who receive less and less advice. I think it's incredibly strange to hear the calculator parts in the government, and KS, which I think has been completely impotent in this context – because it sounds like it's more important to get 400 million. kr more away from earmarked grants and over to the free framework, than getting SEK 4 1⁄2 billion, which is what SV proposes, more in municipal free income, or for the sake of what the Storting will adopt today, an extra DKK 1 1⁄2 billion in free income. I wonder if it's the batteries that have gone into the calculator. So if you look at the very specific earmarked grant that goes to music schools, it's like that. The Christian People's Party says that they believe that the municipalities choose the best of their own. And we agree with that, but you have to look at the consequences of the choices you make. So let's do that. Oslo: If you're going to have music school places for your kids, you should put them in line for the music school at the moment they're born, so they have a name to put on the lists. If you do that, there's a very big chance that you can get some space sometime during that time when the kids are kids. So that's how you spend a little bit of money in music schools in Oslo. But e.g. in Vega, a small municipality in the Nordic region, fires have been on and state subsidies have been granted to music schools. They run a music school and a cultural school that combines mathematics and music in an innovative way, so this grant allows this municipality to offer well over half of its primary education. This is an offer that rages completely at the moment you remove these funds, because the money is moved from there to Oslo. And Oslo has enough freedom of action to do these things. Oslo's worth 700 million. NOK into property tax. And then it becomes a paradox for me to say that removing part of these earmarked grants and putting them into the framework will create so much more local freedom of action. If you were really concerned with local freedom of action, you wouldn't have said what Erna Solberg said at a KS conference last fall: the municipalities don't have a income problem, they have a spending problem. So it's a nice right rewrite of reality. Clearly, if you were really concerned with local freedom of action, you should give the municipalities more freedom to decide their own taxes. Then there would have been a lot of hard-working election matches in many places, and municipalities that needed extraordinary investment would have had the opportunity to get that money in a way that at the same time gave them more freedom of action. But these are the calculator parts of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1203	The President will appreciate the fact that the state councils here in the main hall are being named as state councillors.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1206	In fact, the government's proposals for the municipality economy for 2004 are historically high. The Christian People's Party has promised to invest in the municipalities, and the Cooperative Government has delivered it. A certain man has said that thinking is comparing, and looking back, has no government before delivered plus $4 billion. There should be no faith in hearing the debate today. One certainly compares to heaven, and there are the streets of gold. Yeah, I get it. Local authorities need more money, and there are many tasks waiting for funding. But that's not new, so the misery description that we're talking about here is, in my view, opposite. Let me remind you that Norway is the world's best society to live in. Security, wealth and care are the hallmarks of the Norwegian welfare system, seen with worlds, or the UN eye. Well-being is exactly what you create in your municipalities. In fact, users of care and schooling are very happy. The large test for KS shows that. The municipalities are better than their reputation. When a person listens to the debate here, one must conclude that Norway is the world's worst country to live in. Here it goes below, here it's just sad! I therefore thought, in the balance sheet's name, that there is a need to concentrate on the positive. And that's not hard, because positive changes are many of them in this budget. Many people even agree. First, I would like to highlight the proposal for users with special needs. For approx. Four years ago, I was assigned to the Municipal Committee, and by the first municipal economic proposition, a top funding model for so-called resource-requiring users was drawn up. The Christian People's Party then meant, as now, that such a system was absolutely necessary. Spokespersons and municipal politicians stressed at all times where I met them, that it would help enormously if the Storting adopted such a top funding model. After four years, he's in place, and I think of it as one says. I think it's amazing that the Labour Party, as at the time of stretching what they could, is now proposing 80 pst. top funding, as the government party – identical to the Christian People's Party's proposal at that time. All users can rejoice. A traffic accident or premature birth shall no longer put the economy of a small municipality on the head. This should be a celebration day for all who have been concerned that the local economy should be farsighted, even for the small municipalities, especially if it becomes the Right Party and the Christian People's Party's model that gets plurality. But the Christian People's Party is in any case very happy. So to the regional dimension: for many years, the Christian People's Party has been asking for a more flexible approach to the financing of the smallest municipalities, with less than and up to 3,000 people. The Government is now proposing a phasing-out plan for the regional initiative, so that it is not a disaster for the population no. 3001 is born. Reasons have gone away from the saying. It was not too early. Fortunately, the co-operation management is being joined. Countdown time was changed last year, and the government has introduced a big city tip. The last argument was that the big cities were particularly burdened with drug and psychiatry problems, with the economic consequences it has. As a small apropos, it costs to take away the children from the angels and provide them with, for example, noise and video options as replacements. Life-style diseases have the potential to destroy all welfare communities. It is not possible to find the criteria for intoxication and psychiatry; it was then claimed by Minister of State Sylvia Brustad. Now the government has proven the opposite. Rightly, the opposition is asking for a better system, and we are aware that there is a need for adjustments that can limit unfortunate outcomes. But the main principle is delivered. So this has been said here: several numbers for an urban criterion. And then it's a little weird that the Workers' Party is making sure in a note that even if there's a deliberate predatory criterion, Oslo and Bergen are going to get their money. What about Trondheim, Stavanger, Tromsø, or else? Even if you use the biggest piassava for black paint today, a lot of good work is done. Top funding, simplification, removal of ten ear-marked additions and greater municipal freedom is a result of the management here. The Christian People's Party has always meant that whoever wears the shoe knows best where he prints. Before this year's municipal elections, I hope that the voters and elected representatives at the municipal level will notice that the freedom will be greater than before. The government was willing to bet on local control even where the opposition will still be banging on central control. It's a little sad, but we're going to have to rejoice over it boosting the right of self-determination that one actually gets, and all the reporting as a release.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1233	‘The government comes with measures to strengthen local democracy and increase municipal freedom of action’ was the title of the press release on the municipal economic proposition from the Prime Minister’s office on 14 May this year. There might have been a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a little bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a I'm going to use Moss municipality as an example: Moss municipality is facing a very serious economic situation, and has done so for some time. Privatisation of hospitals and other services has not given the municipality a better economy. Before taking a vacation, the municipality will have to cut further over 60 million. kr. ‘The community is in an economic state of emergency’, says Kjell Kåsin, Group leader of the Right, to Moss Avis yesterday – a municipality that Right has run for eight years, and where the deficits and problems have only increased. The question is whether the government's proposal would have saved the bourgeois municipal politicians in Moss from further reductions in school provision and care for the elderly until next year. Nope. Because even if it is added to a few million in the framework grant, it is deducted in other areas. According to the Government's plan, Moss municipality will lose over 6 million. kr in the conversion of the drug and psychiatry criteria, and they lose the fact that several of the earmarked grants are proposed for inclusion, inter alia. the crisis centres. Then there won't be much left of local democracy in addition to the freedom of action they of course have to go to the dismissal of employees, but I'm not so sure it was the special freedom of action they thought about when the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Municipal Council promised them more freedom of action and more local democracy. The Labour Party believes that there is a need to strengthen the local economy by NOK 3 billion next year in addition to what the Government has proposed. That would have given the Østfold municipalities $116 million. kr more in relation to the Government's proposal. That's what we proposed for the current year. Overall, it would have given Moss municipalities and many other municipalities throughout the country that are now struggling, a completely different economic situation and a completely different offer to the inhabitants of school, care for the elderly, health and school leisure. Although I used Moss municipality as an example, this is not special. This is pretty similar all over the country. A study presented by the Municipality’s Central Association in February 2003 shows that a total of 56 pst. This year, municipalities need to reduce one or more services in order to bring the economy together. It is built up in school, care for the elderly, culture, school leisure, disabled people, health services and child protection. If the survey had been carried out today, the answers would probably have been even more degressive after the tax entrance into municipalities has failed. That's what all the municipalities are struggling with. In the past, the government has asked the government to make changes to the income system, so that municipalities with major problems in the field of drugs and psychiatry would have financial assumptions to make a better offer. Then it is alarming that the government is proposing a system there, for example. all the municipalities of Østfold taper. Even Fredrikstad, who has received big city grants with the background of the same criteria for drugs and psychiatry, loses. First, they lose the city grant of about 6 million. kr, and in addition they shall be drawn in the limits of more than 3 million. So SEK – a total of 9 million. kr. This is bad and surprising, and it's impossible to understand. Such redistribution is considered by the Workers' Party to be totally unacceptable. That is why we will send the whole matter back. Here, there has to be a fairer system for these municipalities. Finally, the Labour Party believes that there must be a match between the tasks to be done by municipalities and the money available to municipalities. And it has to end with the Storting adopting sub-financed reforms. The government must discuss with the municipalities a comprehensive plan for the creation of the economic imbalances in the local government sector today. This cannot continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1256	There is a performance-oriented government that, after two years in position, is now adding up to major system changes in the local government sector. Local democracy must be strengthened. The municipalities will have more responsibility and greater freedom. Decisions shall be taken more closely by the users. It ensures the basis on which services will be better adapted to users and their needs. It is the local politicians who associate with the inhabitants every day. Local politicians have the best conditions for using resources correctly. Within the financial framework, municipalities must have a great deal of freedom of action. We'll give them that next year. The government has been in favour of significant growth in the free income, and the Right will do its job to ensure that the earmarked funds soon belong to history. We want to simplify laws and regulations. And it has now been decided – after 20 years of sewerage – to transfer the negotiating responsibility of the teachers from the state to the municipal sector, with effect from 1 May 2004. There's another chatter that's about the Co-operation Administration! After many years of local policy, including: as rapporteur in Skien, I am well aware of the struggle against the ever-increasing level of detail management of the local government sector. It suffocates all municipal freedom of action. With the municipal proposal for 2004, the Government has laid the basis for a reverse operation. Local politicians are now to be given greater influence over the services to be provided by citizens. It knows best where the shoe prints, which has it on it, is a familiar expression. It amazes me that the opposition parties will not, or dare, take the consequences of this. Although the Workers' Party in its programme says that they want to give municipalities greater freedom of action by reducing their designation, the big business representatives in the same party are making the opposite point here today. They will retain much of the earring, contrary to the recommendations of, among others. Central Federation of Municipalities. Also SV refuses. Although one in the party programme of SV says that local democracy must be liberated, the representatives will maintain the designation. The whole of 12 out of 15 earrings will keep the batch. So there seems to be a big gap between theory and practice. The kindergartens have been strongly focused this year, and it must be said that we are very pleased with the agreement where the government parties and the Workers' Party secured a majority for the financing of kindergartens. It is a good step in the right direction to include this major and important municipal task in the transfers to municipalities from 2006. These are important principles that will provide more space for action locally and the possibility to use resources more efficiently. Since local conditions vary widely across the country, it is important that each municipality should control itself and its resources as much as possible. It'll simply give you more money. The government is adding up to a growth in the total income of the local government sector of about DKK 4 billion. However, decisions already taken by the Storting, including: in the nursery area, suggests that the framework will need to be extended. Since the opposition has doubts about part of the earmarked grants, the growth of the free revenues will not be as large as desired. I'm sorry. However, it is worth noting that the compensation of 240 million. kr for increased costs related to the school package II is added to the growth of the free income. The government keeps what it promises: new reforms will be fully financed. The opposition has more money than the government parties, naturally. Responsibility seems to be an unknown concept when sitting in opposition, especially because you don't have to show coverage for all the good suggestions in a community proposition. The Labour Party, for example, is painting the economic situation of municipalities, now last in Moss and Østfold, but has no more to come than the Government of the revised national budget for 2003. But here in the municipal bill, you suddenly find NOK 3 billion. It's not nice for voters to talk about empty politicians' promises. This creates political disdain. In addition, non-infested overbidden conditions do not create better conditions for Kommune-Norway. I'm going to give the Municipality's Central Association the right to many municipalities struggle and have a long economy. There is an imbalance in the local economy that needs to be corrected over time. It's a reality we're dealing with, and it wants the Right to do something about it. However, not least today, all parties should be able to call for a high level of funding scheme for resource-intensive users to be put in place in 2004. This will be an economic boost and an extension of security for the local government sector. It will provide users, in particular, with security of due care. The government has made almost a double resource effort in this area. During the down payment process, the amount has been more than doubled. [[The President clubs.]] From the starting point of 650 million. NOK 300 million has been added first. NOK 250 million, and an additional estimate. Actually, there should have been an agreement on this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1279	Today, it is tempting to make an article on behalf of those who have not yet made claims to society. These also do not have the right to voice, so that suspicion of tactical concern would be unnecessary. Our children and grandchildren – the next generations, yes, those who will take over after us – will also be able to participate in public welfare and security into the future. It's our moral and economic duty. The former U.S. president Herbert Hoover once said, "Happy are our children and grandchildren, because they're going to inherit our debt." And then I can add, inherit our burdens, if we can't look into the future and call about our good community solutions – school and care. We have to do this work. The future extends beyond the year 2004. Good Community solutions are crucial for the establishment of a qualitatively good welfare society. Competition exposure and privatisation in these areas may in a short time tear down everything that we have built step by step since the Second World War. Now we're going to try out our quality as politicians. This is not the answer: efficiency, privatisation and more for money. Many people in the public sector simply don't have the energy anymore. I know a lot of people in the municipal sector who do an incredibly good job. It's always mentally debilitating to hear that one is not stretching. Often the result is that these great human beings end up in other public budget posts, simply with sick pay or disability. It's work we live on, and the more we work, the easier it becomes to pay future bills. It's important to choose what's most important. We have knowledge of other countries and other democratic systems that have historically claimed that competition is healthy and that private solutions provide more money. There is no reason for us to make them the same failure. The government produces the financial structure for 2004 as a strong real growth for the local government sector. Several speakers before me have documented that this is not the case, so I'm not going to bring it up again here. The local government sector must have a larger real growth than what the government proposes. We must call for local democracy and our Community solutions. Special interests, such as smaller taxes and taxes, are damaging to the financial structure created. We can't now fail our children and grandchildren. The Labour Party will spend more money on Community solutions that five all and do not exclude anyone. We will expand the welfare community and allow more elderly care, kindergartens, education and research. The municipalities themselves are the pillars of the Norwegian welfare community. Therefore, we will increase the municipal income in 2004 by NOK 3 billion more than the Government adds. In Telemark, this would mean a plus for the county of 27.5 million. NOK 80 million for primary municipalities. kr. It would have made it easier for the municipalities to plan their own activity, and it would have given increased local freedom. The local government sector has experienced a sharp increase in expenditure in recent years. Net debt has increased more than ever before. A handshake to the municipalities, as the Labour Party puts it, will involve a commitment to welfare building and good municipal services. The income system shall ensure a fair distribution between municipalities. The proposal for a cost key for social services provides an undesirable distribution effect. Many municipalities will come out badly. In my own state, Telemark, all the municipalities will come out worse. The ski will lose about 5.6 million. kr, and Porsground will lose about 5.8 million. kr, to name a few examples. This is completely unacceptable. With the major challenges for drug use and psychiatry in the border area, the government needs to come back with a new cost key in the 2004 government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1301	I have the impression that there is a common understanding that it is necessary to improve the economy in the municipalities. I do not disagree with the fact that many municipalities are struggling, but using the «municipal economy» as a collective concept for the economy of all the 434 municipalities and 19 counties of the country, and imagining that the situation is quite similar, and equally poor everywhere, is becoming quite meaningless. The central statistical agency published the KOSTRA figures for 2002 on Monday, and they clearly demonstrate that the economic differences in Kommune-Norway are enormous. Even with regard to the most important tasks, such as school, health and care, the differences are huge. Some numbers will illustrate it. In order to take the school sector first, the figures show that the differences between the municipality that uses the most per. Students at primary school, and the municipality that uses the least, are almost NOK 100000, from NOK 46 800 to NOK 143 800. That's the difference between two Norwegian municipalities. So it's going to be three times as much per. students in one municipality as in the other. The babysitting range from 40 pst. in the worst municipality to sky high 125 pst. in the best. The same is true of healthcare. Here, municipal contributions vary from less than $600 per person. population up to approx. NOK 6000 for the best municipality, i.e. ten times that amount. And the income of municipalities per year. The population quite rightly explains these enormous differences. They vary from NOK 29 000 for the worst municipality to NOK 150 000 for the best. That's why it's essentially the same municipality that's left at the top and at the bottom of the scale. When that's true, it becomes impossible to achieve what all the parties here in the hall say is the goal, that is to say, the same service provision as possible in all the municipalities of the country. And as long as the majority in this room don't want to do anything about this bias distribution, which to a large extent becomes through the income system, the goal becomes only beautiful words in election numbers and majorizations. The Progress Party wants to address these differences between municipalities in core areas such as school, health and care, and will therefore have a funding model where the State takes responsibility for the primary tasks through a single-cost financing. In this way, it will be possible to approach the objective of offering something similar in all municipalities, regardless of the municipality's economy and local political priorities. But we are so realistic that we see that this is a bit ahead of time and that we need to deal here and now with today's political realities. In order to obtain a fairer distribution of State transfers between municipalities, the Progress Party will ensure that the maximum share of transfers is made in accordance with objective criteria on the population grant. That means that we want to reduce the North Norway grant, which, as the name says, only goes to municipalities in North Norway, and the discretion grant, which no one properly knows how to prioritise, but which seems to go to the same municipalities year after year, almost of old habit. Within today's system, the only way to go is to get a more equal standard on the municipal services across the country. The Government has proposed significant changes to the cost key, which in some cases the Progress Party considers to be insufficient and which in many cases may turn negative. That is why we want to see these changes in a broader context, and believe this should be presented to the Storting as a matter of its own. However, even a redistribution between municipalities would not solve the general problem, that the State has introduced a number of reforms that the municipalities have been responsible for, without having followed with enough money. Therefore, it is important that municipalities have the opportunity to make the best possible use of the money they have. Here the government parties and the Advance Party have a parallel view. A general system of VAT compensation is essential to enable municipalities to make the best possible use of scarce resources. It is not particularly impressive that the Government has spent two years establishing the system to come into force on 1 January 2004, and the case does not tolerate any further suspension. It is important to clarify that there will be no requirement for municipalities to compete with parts of the services. The local governments that for ideological reasons choose not to do so will, of course, be free to do so. However, there is a lot of Norwegian and international experience in getting more and better money services through outsourcing, if it is done in the right way. There is nothing to suggest that we get the best and fairest offer through a monopoly system that we have today. The consequence of the lack of market exposure is, in the view of the Progress Party, that we have received a bureaucratic, heavy-duty and cost-intensive local government sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1322	The municipalities are the level of society that is closest to the inhabitants, and there is a fantastic job out in the municipalities, both by the elected and by the thousands of employees in our municipalities across the country. For the Workers' Party, it is an important objective to provide good and equivalent welfare services across the country, but today the situation is that much of what is built up of good services for the population needs to be rebuilt. Many of the offers that are to be given high priority are now being cut. I'm seriously worried when we hear that 56 pst. of municipalities this year reduces one or more services to bring the economy together. It's a serious signal when 55 pst. of the municipalities cuts in the budgets of primary school and 47 pst. Cattle in the care of the elderly. These are areas that the Right Party and the other government parties promised a lot at the last election. We often hear that the government parties call for rationalisation and efficiency, but my claim is that the municipalities have cut as far into the bone as possible. Administrations are also now so cut that local authorities have problems complying with the requirements that the government itself sets for municipal administration. I then see that the rationalisation and efficiency it is talking about is cutting off important welfare offers to the citizens. There's a lot of talk about people moving out of the districts, and this is their own choice. It is often said that no one can decide where to live, but when important welfare offers go away, people are forced to move. When the primary school is closed, when home services have to be cut, when cultural services are removed, etc., yes, people are forced to move, whether they want it or not. I notice that the only medicine of the government parties in today's situation is more privatisation. I cannot understand that it will be the great gain of more tenders and more privatisation. Such operations shall also include a significant profit for the operation. At my discretion, such savings and gains must be generated by the fact that employees are going to jump even faster, or by cutting the service offer, or preferably a combination of both. No one deserves it. I have noticed that the Right has called out the Trade Union, or the former Norwegian Commune Federation, to its main opponent, because the members have called an alarm in relation to the developments we see from the privatisation tool. I can't believe that the Right will go out this way against thousands of public servants, who every day do a fantastic job in the village and city to make society good to live in. Nor can I understand that the Right will deal with the thousands of health workers who each day take care of our old and sick people around the country. When one calls out a trade union to its opponent, it is in fact connected with members who are the opponent. People volunteer in such an organisation, because they need it, and because they support it, and it's the organisation's members that make up the organisation. Personally, I feel very secure by having a professional movement that has the strength to tell when it is necessary. I hope they keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1343	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. So far, the President has 16 speakers. The President will draw attention to the fact that we have a number of important issues on the agenda today, which will be dealt with after this matter is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1348	The objectives of the Workers' Party are equivalent welfare services across the country. It is therefore absolutely necessary to transfer more money to the municipalities, so that municipalities get an economy that is proportionate to the tasks they have to perform for the benefit of their citizens. Norway now has a government that gets dubious calls from rapporteurs all over the country, representing all political parties. But what does the Bondevik government answer? Mantra orders are rationalisation, efficiency and privatisation. But it is no longer possible to pick up from those who work in the care sector. They already do an amazing job and have to lift heavier and run faster. Care is to give of himself and give of his time. We should note that when we constantly make demands on the employees. Many rapporteurs in Hedmark tell me that they would like the economy to give room to hire more people in the care sector. The Labour Party is now spending more money on the municipal scheme for 2004. So a little bit about resource-intensive users. Care for heavy users is very costly and consumes considerable resources both economically and humanly. When municipalities are already economically struggling and have users who, for example, cost between 2 and 3 million. kr per. person in the year, the consequence is that municipalities are unable to provide satisfactory quality of the offer or that the offer to disabled persons becomes so expensive that it is at the expense of the welfare offer to the other population of the municipality. Even in a well-developed welfare society, there will always be someone who needs more of the community than others. This results in a breakdown of the social budget. Therefore, the Labour Party fears that the cuts will affect the population, both young people in kindergarten and school, the elderly and those with special needs for care. The employer's party clearly refuses to submit an invitation to tender to the elderly and who are very much in need of care. We want a strong public sector that is there for us all, when we need it, regardless of the wallet. The rapporteurs in Hedmark are sensible and responsible, and they do not run to Stortingen and complain all the time. But now patience is put on a big test. It's despair now. That is why I am pleased that the Labour Party is proposing a solid increase to the municipal sector in 2004. As is well known in the budgets, the money is allocated, and this is therefore the municipal budget for 2004. So this promise from the Workers' Party had given Hedmark County 33 million. kr more, and the Hedmark municipalities had received approx. Ninety million. kr more. It's going to be a lot of well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1369	The socialist parties in this Chamber have, during the debate, unilaterally focused on money, on more money – from the Labour Party on the one hand, which believes that heavenly joy and local politics have a difference of SEK 2.75 billion in free income for the municipalities, to SV, which believes that the abduction and the bottomless crisis of the municipalities must be resolved by SEK 4.5 billion before ending in local political paradise. In the 2004 municipal proposal, the Government presented a comprehensive and comprehensive plan to strengthen local democracy and increase the urban space for action. We follow our promises, and we suggest, among other things. a historical plan for the inclusion of earmarked grants, a legislative and reporting simplification plan, State supervision against the local government sector, based on the principle of full and coordination, alternative governance and agreements between the Government and the KS, as an alternative to minimum standards and manning standards. The government parties trust that our own local politicians and others are at least as busy as we national politicians in making the best possible provision for well-being for our citizens. On the other hand, the potential and ability of national policies to control municipalities in detail is at stake. Manning standards and minimum standards are their solution to low local space for action. The opposite would be the case. The taboo of the Labour Party appears to be to ensure that the school leisure system is again earmarked, that music schools and camp schools continue to receive earmarked grants, and to ensure state control and national government control over the school. This is reflected in the number of proposals put forward by the Workers' Party, which have focused on non-professional activities and not on quality in school. This municipal proposition is historical — and would be historic if it had been adopted — in increasing local self-government and showing confidence in the country's city and municipality governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1382	I want a diverse society, where citizens, families, businesses and municipalities have a high degree of freedom and the ability to choose their way of life and their course within a wide range of frameworks. As a former municipal politician, I was therefore both proud and very pleased that the Co-operation Government has done what everyone else has been talking about, taken the municipalities seriously and strengthened local democracy, by giving them greater freedom to prioritize money according to local needs. A comprehensive plan has been put forward. This is brilliant. What's not so brilliant is that unfortunately, the fear that someone will choose differently, by the majority, seems to be used to encroach on the framework of independent elections. The majority undermine the Government's plan to include earmarked grants and yield for special interests and the fear that the voters in some municipalities will choose differently. Five years ago, the first wishes of the Storting came to review the criteria of the income system for, among others. to catch up with the inequalities in the field of drugs and psychiatry. The government has made its own and made a good proposal on a new set of criteria, while the majority backs and does not dare. While previously, without difficulty, we have been able to agree on criteria for grids at sea, scattered settlements, agricultural and environmental criteria, all of which benefit the districts, we are therefore unable to do so in the case of drugs and psychiatry. Why not? It should not be because these are the big cities that will serve, for example. Oslo, who has a high level of expenditure in these areas? Oslo is financing half of the drug treatment in Norway, and Oslo, of course, wanted a large part of the money. Some have discovered that if you're going to re-prioritize and someone is going to have more, some other few will necessarily be smaller. It is not possible to re-prioritize so that everyone gets more, even though I may register that someone seems to have a box without a bottom. I think it is very sad that these new criteria are not being introduced now. The big cities live in uncertainty. What does the Storting want? The experience is not so overwhelming. It's sad that it's the resource weaknesses that will lose out on them not being introduced now, and it comes from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, who otherwise claims that the Government does not do enough for the weak. After all, I record from the newspapers that the Oslo politicians of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left also lost this internal battle. Their ambitions to conquer the City Council in Oslo are not so very well anchored and supported, probably, in the rest of the parties. It's saddest for the whole of Oslo and the people of the big cities, who get less money to go with than they should get, and especially the weakest.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1395	The municipal sector faces a number of challenges in the coming years. One of the issues that can really be a challenge is the question of the possible lapse of the differentiated employer fee. In total, this represents a challenge that, for a good part of the county councils in Norway, can total more than DKK 2 billion. How to deal with such a problem is a topic that would have deserved a debate here alone. The position of the centre party in relation to the issue is clear: the municipalities concerned should be able to continue the current tax exemption as an effective, targeted and very well-functioning district policy instrument. However, today, through this setting, we experience that there is a good deal of doubt about how to deal with the differentiated employer fee in the future. It is most unclear what strategies and opportunities the Government has actually taken advantage of in this context, and what opportunities they will exploit in the future. Some of those affected have asked for a legal review of the possibility of retaining a differentiated employer’s fee. One of the reports that have just been submitted and sent to the Government is an investigation by the law firm Thommes Krefting Greve Lund AS, which points to three possibilities for maintaining the differentiated employer fee, which should at least interest the parties in this room who are engaged in such a rigorous district policy instrument. One is the question of whether it is possible to maintain a differentiated employer’s fee for enterprises that do not have current or potential competition with EEA countries. Aid to such undertakings will fall strictly outside the scope of the EEA Agreement. Municipalities may, at least in so far as they do not post a competitive activity, fall under such a provision. The second is whether it is possible to design Norwegian State aid in such a way that it does not constitute State aid in the EEA sense. The third, and most importantly, is the question of whether it is possible to use the derogation protocol proposed by the Government against Nord-Troms and Finnmark, also against other and larger parts of the district policy area. It is a matter that the Government must take seriously and that it must also assess in the future. Indeed, if it does, it should be a good opportunity for Norway to be able to confirm an exemption in relation to the parallel provisions of EU law and the decisions taken in the EU. The Central Party assumes that the Government will address this and take an offensive stance on it in the future. Otherwise, I have to say that the Mayor and the Government have put forward a strategy for local freedom of action towards resources for the municipal sector. It's a pointless strategy. It's probably not anything either-or. There will be no freedom of action without resources. It's one of the main points the Centre Party has tried to present in today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1410	The working party makes a significant contribution to school and care for the elderly. The Labour Party is fighting to preserve and develop the modern school, but we are in the situation that over half of the country's municipalities say they want to cut the school budget. 55 pst. Of the municipalities, they say they want to cut the school offer for the kids. These are dangerous numbers that greatly affect the quality of school. It is therefore strange to hear that in today's debate the Right-Representative Hogsnes claims that the government's approach strengthens the municipalities as school owners. At the same time, the Government opens up a free play for private schools, which will result in significant increases in public expenditure. This is money that could have been spent in primary school, where most of our students go. It's a reality that the public is being drained for resources, resources that we think should have been used in common school. If it is the case that Norway is at the top of the world spending money at school, but that we get too little left for the money – at least that’s what the school council claims – why do you open a freeway for private schools? It appears to be a strategy to reduce the opportunities of primary school. Our challenge is how to ensure good quality in school at all times. The evaluation of the reform in general shows that both pupils, parents and teachers are satisfied. What we put our finger on is the evaluation, which shows that there are differences between classes and between schools in terms of curricula, how they are practised, how the school environment works, and the efforts made in relation to resource use within the framework of the municipal economy. There is no doubt that public schools face major challenges. We from the Workers' Party will be involved in solving and developing the school's problems. But then we have to bet on the municipalities. We have to give the municipalities the space for action and the opportunity to do a job in the common school. So far, the Government has given priority to increasing private school resources. We believe that the finances of municipalities need to be improved in such a way that we ensure the school's ability to carry out good development work. It is important that the school has the opportunity and flexibility to test different trials to provide the best possible training for young people. The problem is not that the school has no freedom, but that it has no resources. School policy is therefore so deeply concerned with local economics. We note that the country's municipalities with Regeringa's proposals will get too little money to run a good school and a worthy care for the elderly. There must be greater consistency between the tasks to be undertaken by municipalities and the resources available to municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1428	The municipal sector is on its way into a slow but highly required process of conversion. More and more people realize that quality in school and care is not just a question of allocation. Effective organisation of the overall municipal activity requires rethinking and border crossing between municipalities. As today's position was clear, and the majority had sold out their message, thanking the rapporteur in Gaul for the million he was going to get, but assuming that this was just a pale start to a whole new, colorful time with banknotes for Municipality-Norway. After hearing the change of line after the main post of the Workers' Party, I would urge the rapporteur in Gaul and other like-minded people to continue the process of getting more back for the money. Jakob Sande, also from Sunnfjord, wrote quotationable verses: "Tomorrow I will begin a new and better life... But today listen to it be." This may be striking, as several have expressed difficulties in looking at the outlines of next year's bright economic future in the revised budget for the current year. Storing documents on the uncovered economy and, to date, treated in election years, are in their own class. Here we find the current national transport plan processed before elections, without any interference. It was lying on the floor without a lift and stairs. The current settings are also in this special class. On yesterday's meeting card for processing at 0 p.m. 01 last night there were several progress party proposals on fantastic road projects without funding. And at the start of today's meeting there was a new one in the same class. After us, after tomorrow – or maybe we'll say after the election – reality comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1450	In the budget debate before Christmas last year, Karin Andersen took the following up with the Council of State: Yellow Municipality got an extraordinary promise, which was absolutely necessary, but very many municipalities did not get it, even if they were in the same situation. The question then was, how many individual municipalities need such an extraordinary promise before the Council of State will increase the permissions of all municipalities? Then one has to increase so it's monar. Unfortunately, it does not do the government, either in revised – there is not a krona – or in the municipal proposition today. The municipalities in my county have increased the accumulated deficit in 2002 to approx. 150 million. kr. 20 out of 26 municipalities went under last year, and there are ten more than in 2001. Thus, there is little power to deliver the services required by the inhabitants. Not only the smallest municipalities are tired. We also see that the larger municipalities have major challenges. Looking at the KOSTRA number, the county exemplifies three municipalities, all of which have net operating costs per. residents well below the national average, both in administration, management and public expenditure and care services. Only in school is one on the national average. So they're not in any area. This build pattern implies that some municipalities in the county may have a right cost level than the average. Many municipalities have long distances and many of them have island construction. The county council also points out that the launch of competition in these small municipalities is not a good tool, because it is difficult to achieve real competence. Long distances also mean that you need a lot of service units, and there are few providers who consider it interesting enough to deliver some paper. Municipal convergence is another tool to correct the economy, but it also shows that even with extensive mergers, a cut in the provision of welfare needs to be made. The municipality of Naustdal is a municipality that is in a very difficult situation and has been for many years, in many ways like the Yellow Municipality, which received extraordinary funds last year. The cut suggestions that are on the table in Naustdal get serious consequences for people who live in that municipality. Few people experience it as freedom of trade. Some of those suggestions actually cost more after a while. Some of them are contrary to laws and regulations, and are totally opposed to central political goals – this in a time of growing unemployment, when our big industrial businesses are struggling heavily. Then it is not satisfactory to see that the municipalities have an economy that makes it difficult to provide the services that the inhabitants require. At a time of rising unemployment, local authorities should be the foremost ones in helping to facilitate business development and provide services to citizens. SV gives the municipalities access to it with their plans, and we are sorry that the government could not support its proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1463	The economic settlement for drug protection and child and family protection involves redistribution between county municipalities. Part of the redistribution is linked to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs having adjusted the economic outturn by an average national activity growth from 2002 to 2003 of 3pst, respectively. for anti-drugs and 6 pst. for the protection of children. This is an activity growth far from all counties. However, the counties that have actually had such an activity growth have not been financed by the State but have used their other free resources to finance it. This includes, inter alia: funds allocated to county councils through other criteria in the cost key. When the State withdraws these funds in connection with the economic settlement, the county councils are penalised and receive permanent withdrawals of funds allocated to, among others. carriage and secondary education. One may be tempted to quote from Matthew chapter. 25 to describe the treatment of some municipal municipalities and counties in this country by the Ministry of Local Government: "Lord, I knew that you are a hard man, reaping where you have not sown, and sank where you have not scattered." It is alarming that, on the one hand, it has been decided that the use of discretionary means should be reduced, while, on the other hand, funds should be invested for special purposes in the discretionary means that reinforce a division of discretion between municipalities and counties. For a long time, municipalities and county councils represent 40 pst. by the population, received 60 pst. by the discretionary scepter. Now this bias is increasing. Skews shall compensate for conditions not captured by the income system. If the income system operates so poorly for a group of municipalities and county councils that they will soon have to have three-quarters of the entire discretionary pool, it is high time that the entire income system was retired. For the rest of us, there is a lean consolation to find in the same Matthew: "For him who has, he shall have, and in abundance. But he that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath. The goal of the future review of the income system must be to find a fairer distribution of the abundance that, after all, is many places in the municipality of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1487	Over many years as a municipal politician, I have read a good deal of municipal propositions. With this background, I dare to claim that the municipal bill for 2004 is the best municipal bill ever made. The value of local democracy is visible. It's going to have more room for action. There will be less government control, and the limits of the municipalities will be increased by approximately NOK 4 billion. That is why I have followed the debate on the local economy both in the media and here in the Chamber today. It is the vote that both the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and not least the Centre Party give a distorted picture of what is actually in the municipal proposition and the positive additions that have been included in the committee's proceedings. I know that there are many municipal and state politicians who have major problems. There are many challenges for municipalities, because there is a lack of consistency between municipal tasks and the economy available. This has to be something to do with. What do local politicians need today? Yes, they need greater local freedom and discretion, better economy, recognition of the work they do, and encouragement to continue. Therefore, it has been depressing to listen to some of the articles today. Earlier this year, the Christian People's Party discussed the areas in which we had to invest. The debate made it clear that now is the time for the municipalities to get a lift. This can be found as soon as we start reading the configuration from the committee. Nice! But then we need to be able to point out, politically, that we have confidence in the many good local politicians, who have the best knowledge of the tasks that need to be solved at the lowest possible level, through local policy decisions. There is also a recognition of the valuable work that many of the municipalities have done. I'm not eight-full for putting off competition as long as quality requirements are imposed on the municipal services, because I'm overconfident that well-qualified local authorities will win the competition for the various services. Today's decision reduces the state ear marking. There will be more money for municipalities, and local freedom of action will increase. The government has provided a funding model that ensures that people with high needs for care are cost-effective and equivalent, regardless of the country in which they live. The basis for the welfare country will be economic growth and development. We must therefore provide a competitive environment for business. It'll be the stable jobs of. The Christian People's Party will solve the problem of unemployment, and that is why we must pursue the policy we are now pursuing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1502	As a priest and theologian, it could be tempting for me to also refer to a Bible word, as Holstad did. But I'm going to be a little bit closer to the ground and refer to a comment in the position of the committee's chairman, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, where she expresses concerns about the number of branch schools that are disappearing, a development that will be reinforced as a result of a sharp reduction in the exceptional discretionary means. A few weeks ago I had an interpellation here in Stortinget where I took up this problem. Nordic research has carried out a study, ‘An entire building is needed to raise a child’, which shows that it is even more resource-intensive to run a few schools, as many of the branch schools are, than fully divided schools. Primary schools are currently financed mainly through the free income of municipalities, i.e. the tax income of municipalities and the framework grant of the income system. The compensation criteria have been given less weight and, together with the general downgrading of the relative importance of the framework grant in the overall municipal economy, which particularly affects small municipalities, where the framework grant represents a relatively higher proportion of the total municipal income, recent years have developed in the disfavor of small municipalities and thus small schools. Municipalities need greater economic space, so that even small municipalities with pig-grown settlements can organize the school as they see it is best. It must also be a cross of thought for the government, which says they'll bet on the school, to register that 52 pst. of the municipalities actually cuts in the school budgets. Less split hours, 9 pst. in the school year 2001/2002 and 10 pst. in the 2002/2003 school year, means less adapted training for each individual student. This is a development that very many people are concerned about. Teachers see that with better resources they could do far more for the students, and parents see that the effort for their children is not optimal. The centre party wants a good school, a high-quality school, and that means that you need to get more resources for the school. The municipalities today do not have enough room for action to give the school the promise our kids deserve. Based on what the government says in the municipal bill, there's not so much hope that the government will invest more in the school either.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1515	There is a strange debate about earmarked grants. It seems that the majority and the Government believe that we should sell it as a promise for the local government sector, that the local government sector should do even more tasks with the same money. That's what this is all about. When you remove an ear-marked grant and say that the frame is so large, you have to do the same problems. The representative Heidi Larssen was up here and said that these were the special interests that would be chosen. Yes, if there are special interests that stand for crisis centres, the system of user-led personal assistants, camp school for children and music schools, well, we in SV are proud to be the spokespersons of the special interests. It knows best where the shoe presses, which has it on, said Holmberg. Yeah, who's wearing this shoe? Are those who need the crisis centre, who have the shoe on, those who have said that this must be earmarked, because there are closure proposals in almost every local government all the time because there is no money? Or is it Holmberg or other rapporteurs she knows who wears the shoe? Are there those disabled people who need user-controlled personal assistants who wear their shoes? Or are there any politicians here in this room or in the government who think they have that shoe so much that they can allow themselves to say that this is not important, and that here there is not enough money in the local government sector in general to secure this service if it is not earmarked? Or is it the case that the student who wants to become a machine driver or a trailer driver is not at risk of having to pay all this training in a private driving school, if this earmarked grant is introduced and the county councils cannot afford to maintain it? Indeed, it is not as the Council of State said that these offers were fully financed by the State grant. These are cross-subsidised offers offered by county councils. SV believes that it should be a right to become either a professional driver or a machine driver, just as you become a carpenter or a mason, and get the letter with public help. Finally, there is a representative in Bærum Right who has written a reading article in the paper explaining the Right Policy and the despair of the calculation party of which he has gradually become a member. He describes his frustration that now it's just the spreadsheets to control, and not the values. Finally, he says something I want to quote. He says the following: ‘In Bærum, the way in which the people and the inhabitants continue to live and ahead of statistical calculations. [[...]] After almost four years in the ministry, I just have to bend in the dust for the amazing effort that Bærum's assistant and nurses have made for our patients and users in difficult times." He says that they are now operating better than the competitive hospitals. I hope that both the Right and the Council of State will listen to their own representative, Lars Magne Sundanå in Bærum.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1531	I had not intended to speak in this debate, but after listening to the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen, I was unable to do so. There was an article at a level that it is quite unlikely that we should go right from the pulpit of the National Assembly, where he criticises and consecrates again for the nth time the tragic thing that happened at Risenga in Asker. Schjøtt-Pedersen should know that many controls have shown that there is not so much better in the public sector, among other things. That in one state was 40 pst. of the offer not enough. I believe that it is actually great that we can find out by inspection and supervision that the elderly do not get the offer that we all want. Most disappointingly, a former finance minister can have an intervention at this level in this room. He should perhaps have taken a period of time off from Stortinget and come out into work and see what's going on out there, and not just be inside this room. I could, if I wanted to, say that thank you for the health care that the Labour Party has created in this country, I lost my father, my sister, and my brother too early. But I don't intend to go down on such a level. I will only, after hearing the speeches of the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen, quote Ivar Aasen: ‘Wisdom may be concealed, but folly not.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1543	The President would say that there is more than Schjøtt-Pedersen looking forward to a little break from this hall, but not yet. Now we shall listen to Odd Roger Enoxen, and then Heikki Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1546	One should not look for long in the papers to find headlines on poor municipal economy, on municipal politicians and protesters – they do not withdraw from their jobs but refuse to re-elect – or on cuts in welfare offers. In fact, a quick online search shows that there are 2,221 queries where Erna Solberg is mentioned. The rose does not dominate in these posts. The Council of State has now found an ingenious counter-truth in relation to the criticism she has been subjected to. Increased freedom of action for the municipalities is the slogan of this year's debate. It is for the benefit of the municipal minister and the government parties to be clearly focused on, while it is really about, the economy, that the discussion has been avoided to a greater extent. Working to increase the freedom of action of the municipalities, I wish the Council of State luck. It's necessary to do this. The council also asked for feedback in relation to what she could do to succeed better the next year, and she will receive it. But I would like to say that meeting municipalities that oppose association or cooperation, with threats of reversing the purse or forcing outsourcing as alternatives to their own operations, or introducing challenge rights, as she has committed herself to by means of conciliation with the Progress Party, is not to increase local freedom of action. On the contrary, it is limiting local freedom of action. Saying no to greater freedom to establish a local taxpayer to implement individual projects, e.g.: After a referendum in the municipality, there is also no need to increase local freedom of action. Pressing down charges and introducing a ceiling on charges, as I saw in a headline in the media, is of course not to increase local freedom of action either. It's implementing the Right Policy. I respect that, but it is not to increase local freedom of action. It is to limit the possibilities for municipalities to choose their own solutions. Therefore, in line with the municipal minister's wish for good advice, I would recommend the municipal minister to keep that kind of thinking to himself and also leave those relationships up to the municipalities themselves to make decisions about. On the other hand, I think it might be a good idea to solve the many reporting demands and the many project-oriented, earmarked funds that are there. The National Audit Office has pointed out that these are some of the most inefficient of all forms of earmarked funds, where project description, application, examination of application, implementation, evaluation and project report are required. So it's not always the size of the earmarked grants that decide whether to include them, it's also what kind of ear-marked grants it is. I also see in the municipal bill that the Council of State has said that this will be a priority area. That makes sense, and it's necessary. So, finally, rapporteur – excuse me, President – wants to say that despite the fact that it is ten years since I was in the pulpit of a local government, one does not see the effect of discussing local economy. Earmarked funds can be defended where national priorities or objectives are being implemented, such as the ageing plan and the PU reform, or where individual municipalities undertake tasks on behalf of many, such as: the landlines. It is not obvious that it makes sense to convert the type of earmarked funds into free funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1565	President! Can I get the floor for a manifest misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1573	Then the President gave the floor to the Council of State, and hopes that the misinterpretation was not that we are here in Stortinget and not in a municipal government hall!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1576	It is a manifest misunderstanding that we intend to introduce national challenge law. That's the opposite of what we've written in the proposition we're dealing with right now. We have said that the right to challenge is a good idea, but this must be done by individual local governments within the framework of municipal autonomy. We don't want to impose challenge rights on anyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1581	Does Enoxen want to answer this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1584	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1591	No, that shouldn't be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1594	I just thought I'd say that I'm incredibly tired of hearing that prioritizing different from what the government parties put up to is being irresponsible. I just have to take it, because Kari Lise Holmberg again said that the opposition is irresponsible when it is so easy to prioritize the use of the money. In the Socialist Left Party's proposal for a government budget – it's clearly still necessary to train adults – we spent exactly as much money as the government did, but we used them in a different way. If we're going to measure politics out of being irresponsible and responsible, it's going to be all the other way around. The important thing here must be to come up with the political differences for people, not to play the last one and run around and hang irresponsible patches on each other. The political difference between Kari Lise Holmberg and the Right and the other calculator parties in the Government on the one hand and SV on the other is that we prioritise community solutions. We have a different priority. We believe that it is right to spend money on school, on care of the elderly, on homeless people and on public transport rather than spending money on tax havens. Then, of course, we can say that the government is irresponsible because it does it that way. But the point here is that we have a deep disagreement about how the world and society should be. Then we should have a political debate on that very thing. There is one thing about when the high men of the OECD ‘line up’ a prescription that says that the public – community – share of the value creation in the country should be smaller and smaller and the government chooses to follow, we get a different society than the society that we have built up here in Norway after the war. It's a different society than society SV wants. Then I have to say something in relation to Oslo, since Heidi Larssen was up here instead. Uncertainty has been created, among other things: a letter received by the Stortinget and the Municipal Committee from the City Council and the City Council of Oslo relating to the urbanity grant. I would just like to refer again to what is stated in the Committee's comments under point 8.2. It is very clear that a majority on the Stortinget, consisting of the government parties, the SV and the Workers' Party – and now the Progress Party also joined this from the pulpit instead – believes it is right that this money should go to Oslo and Bergen, which obviously have great challenges in relation to the care of the russian population. This must then be done and this must be put into place for the harvest. Then it is that Oslo will receive funding for the first time for the next year for particularly resource-intensive users, 180 million. kr, as I believe SV will take credit for having managed to settle ashore. That has not been given to Oslo in the past, but we are now ensuring a unanimous increase in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1605	The representative Bendiks H. Arnesen of the Workers' Party was very concerned that the Right should have proclaimed the Commune Union, and thus thousands of municipal employees, to his main opponent in the municipal election campaign. It is – carefully said – a little light-hearted about the actual conditions. Firstly, the Right did not believe that the Norwegian Municipal Council – or the Trade Union, as it is now called – would participate in the municipal elections, even though we have registered that there are close and good relations to, not to say binding agreements with, the Workers' Party. Secondly, it is the Trade Union that has proclaimed the Right and the Advance Party as its main opponents in the election campaign and spreads its happy message via large advertisements and through flyers in public workplaces. The fact that we in the Right object to ideological leadership in the Trade Union cannot surprise anyone, a federal government who has clearly placed the Workers' Party under administration, as the party has moved from a pragmatic approach to modernising the municipal sector to something reminiscent of dogmatic resistance. The right does not attack the members of the Trade Union or other municipal staff. The employees are and will continue to be the municipality's main resource. Right-wing players along with the employees of our efforts to increase the municipal space of action and the freedom to make the choices and priorities that the municipality itself seems to be the most important thing for that particular municipality. I also believe that we will have more robust and more competitive public jobs. I think that's in the interests of the employees, but it's obviously not of interest for ideological leadership in the trade union.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1614	I'll first make a call for the Workers' Party. There is a suggestion in the setting that applies to important groups, those who need user-controlled personal assistants. There is a system that 111 municipalities do not yet have, and there is a need to strengthen the system – I know that the Labour Party is agreed on, because they are going for one to continue with ear marking. This proposal in the setting, as the Progress Party, SV and the Central Party are behind, is about to ask the Government to evaluate the scheme now after these three years and possibly come back with suggestions for improvement. The Labour Party may arrange for multiples if they so vote. Then in the setting there are two proposals that deal with young people with disabilities out of the institution. There, I would like to encourage the Progress Party to look at the content of its proposal in relation to what lies like XII. XII applies to the financing mechanism – the Progress Party itself asks for intensification of plans. The Progress Party may be involved and provide multiples to ask the Government to come back with funding arrangements. So there's an expression called talking to two tongues. The Government is now giving the impression of working to keep a differentiated employer's fee in municipalities. At the same time, it may appear that they are moving a winding-up. Is it the case that they still work for municipalities to keep a differentiated employer's fee? Then the council gives the impression of giving the municipalities greater freedom. Would it mean that the Council of State is not going to deliver new tasks to municipalities without money? Recently, the government came with a Rusreform II, with no new money to the municipalities. Earlier this year, they introduced silent and calm changes when it comes to outsourcing patients from hospitals. Before the patient’s name was ‘completed’ and was finished. Now it's called ready-to-write. Local authorities have been given new tasks without corresponding means. I ask the Council of State to confirm this if the Government has now decided not to impose new tasks on the municipalities without money, and I also ask it to confirm what is actually happening from the Government's side when it comes to the differentiated employer's fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1625	The debate has become as one had thought, especially from the Workers' Party, the SVs and, in part, the Centre's side. They refer to individual situations and, in particular, Risenga is referred to as a scare example of right-wing policy. I expect that the Progress Party has taken part in that right-wing policy. Therefore, it is almost a joy – but it happens with great sadness – to refer to various look-ups, for example in the North Light, where the Workers' Party and SV Cutters, they ‘take from toddlers' families, ‘cutters’, ‘drops cleanness and maintenance’, etc. This is an example of working party and SV management. And that's not because Tromsø has too little money. No, they can afford to build a town hall of 550 million. kr, and they can afford to spend several hundred thousand kroner on a pointless application to get the OL to Tromsø. It's SV and the Workers' Party in Tromsø. And it's interesting to read what's in Nordlys: what's the big problem in Tromsø is "the famous job guarantee that the big trade unions have obtained" through agreements with the SV and the Workers' Party. And on the other hand, ‘It means that whatever happens in the finances of the municipality of Tromsø, all over 3,500 employees in the municipality must be guaranteed to keep the job. If the summer maintenance of the municipal road network is shut down, the employees will continue to work. If the breakage in winter is reduced to a minimum, no jobs shall be touched. The municipal organisation should continue to be as it has always been, no matter what.Is this not noble by the municipality as an employer, then? Well, apparently, if the option had not been to throw the burden on the old and caring ones, on the young in distress and save on the offers to the mentally ill." That's the problem. So no matter what framework has been adopted in this Chamber in relation to the municipal sector, there are representatives from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre around the local government and the city councils, and they give priority to as many employees as possible, and in particular the local administration, because they have an agreement that even if they are not needed, they will have a job bank and give them 400,000 kroner a year. I have a horror example from my own municipality. 38 people did not need the municipality. They put them in a position bench. The vast majority of them were running a farm. It was very good for the farm, because then they got at least free replacements. But here's the problem: no matter what we have to adopt in this room of framework, it's going to be politicians from these parties, and it's going to be a different priority in the municipalities. And then they come back to Stortinget and complain. I think Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen and Reidar Sandal should take it inward without showing a single example of how it goes when the Right Party and the Advance Party run.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1639	SV's performance in the pulpit here today has probably reinforced the impression I already had, that SV is a very centralized party, that SV lacks confidence in local politicians and in municipal autonomy, and in fact that the black clouds exist in SV. Heaven is dark, heavy, it rains, and it seems like lightning and thunder are there too. I have to say, when I'm sitting and listening to the SV posts, that I wonder if there are any points of light in the SV's world and in our real world. Otherwise, I must say that the little cop I had about irresponsibility was not the coin of SV in particular, at least not here today. It was probably another party that was in focus. But we recognize that SV has a different priority than Right. We also know that SV always has more money for the local government sector. It's just looking at the suggestions. There's a big difference, however, beyond the financial framework. No matter what framework we have, and no matter what framework we're talking about, the right is willing to say that the municipalities themselves have to do something in relation to the tasks they have. It is not as simple as calling on the state and on more resources at any time. What's new and fine, and what makes things stronger now in the community proposition than before, is that we're taking a revolution. We're changing the governance set, we're facilitating conditions so that local politicians can be more able to rule in their own municipality. They know best what users need, because they're closest. And we can go one step further and leave even more to the users, because the users also know best what they need. I think there's some of the big difference between right and left.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1650	Let me just answer a few questions that have come up, first of all the question related to differentiated employer’s marriage. No, it is not that we have asked that the local government sector be excluded from the differentiated employer's fee scheme. Of course we could have done that. There would be many border crossings in some areas, in relation to some municipal enterprises and some other areas. But it's clearly expressed. The letter to ESA of 25 March is public. And that letter also shows our positions and what are exceptions. We're asked to exclude agriculture and fish, which are not within the EEA bit, and we've confirmed it. We have thought that we need a better transitional regime, and we do not want to have the action zone within the scope of still differentiated employer's fee. We have not asked for an exemption scheme – which we really don't have to do, because the public sector is not part of the EEA agreement, so we could do it on our own free will, we don't have to ask it at all. We think it would have been wrong to see the whole challenge of Norwegian competitive business, if we were to choose to use a tax system that differentiated the employer's fee, which was really going to create more and new types of jobs in District Norway, to make sure that District Norway became a protected sector and the public sector came out with much, much lower costs on the pay side. On the other hand, we have said that we should compensate crowns for the changes that are taking place, because in the municipal sector we have the full opportunity to do so through an income system that in this area will be less bureaucratic and less detailed than if we were to start to have differentiated the employer's tax only for the public sector, and we had to use detailed management in the border areas where there could actually be competition areas, as happens in a number of areas. Then all of a sudden the question would be, and we know that for different reasons: those employed in municipalities and engaged in asphalt work are perceived as competitive or not? That part of the public sector we could get a discussion about. It is more unbureaucratic to do it this way, to choose to say that we should stimulate the districts as well to the public sector as before, but we do it through other and more direct grants. But to argue, in a situation where we know that we are going to have future shortages of labour, and where we know that we are at risk of losing bigger and larger parts of our competitive business, that the sheltered sector would get extra low wage costs, that's going to go in for what Jens Stoltenberg has argued against: more cappuccino economy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1662	Karin Andersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1665	SV sees that there is a lot of good in the municipal sector, and that's why we want to fight for it. It's important. There is no lack of trust in local politicians. SV is willing to give local politicians $6 billion more of the total of the economy of society. We believe that they are equally good, yes, better than us, to control that money, to give the offer to the population. On the contrary, the right is saying no, they can't get that money, because then they waste them on things that are unnecessary. SV believes that local democracy in both municipalities and county municipalities should have more money to deal with, because they are able to make important offers that Right cannot afford. The large coup d'état has been carried out by means of the Right Party and the Workers' Party. And that was to state the hospitals, and all the consequences it had. There is nothing that has led to such a shift of responsibility from local democracy to the state like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1674	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has also had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1677	It was clear this time from the Council of State when it applies to the differentiated employer charge. You can confirm that the government has not been able to obtain as much as the government could get from the requirements that came from the ESA. I agree that it was not necessary to ask ESA to keep the municipal sector outside. There are 14 municipalities who have experience with changes in employer fees. They were promised heads for heads. They got compensation for the first year from Bondevik I. They received compensation for the second year from Stortinget, and later they can show less and less, and finally no documentation. So is it that the Council of State now promises heads for heads? Why doesn't she say it in full in the bill of lading for each municipality and each county municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1684	I agree with the representative of Meltveit Kleppa that the Council of State was ready in its mention of a differentiated employer's fee. But it must be allowed to remind the Council of State that it is therefore not such that there has been a general agreement in the Storting of the Government's handling of this matter. Based on a majority of the government parties and the Advance Party, the government has given its feedback to ESA. I'll take that for information. However, I find reason to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that in this position it is not that a majority in the Grand Duchy necessarily supports the Government's understanding of how to deal with the situation in the local government sector. The government has established a compensation scheme. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have requested an explanation of the possibilities in relation to the municipal sector. I am surprised that the government has not already given such an explanation. But we have therefore asked that this be done in the context of the budget. And we've assumed that the government is exploiting the possibilities that are. Then the Progress Party, on its side, has asked for a presentation of various alternative ways to solve this challenge. But once again, in this context as in so many others, it's not like the government has got an immediate connection to its arrangement. I'm assuming the Council of State takes it inwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1693	The representative Per Sandberg has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment. You're allowed to go now. We have more things left. – This is just a small request.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1698	I guess I'll have to give up after this. I have registered that the representative Karin Andersen had a wonderfully good post in relation to who knows where the shoe is pressing. Representatives from the Right have just said the same thing. Is it the users who know where it prints? That is what lies in the Progress Party model: meeting the needs and wishes of the users. And then it's a little bit of a shame that we're not going any further than to discuss earring, integration of country lines, assistants to disabled people, camp schools, music schools, etc. We should think more about this in terms of care, health and school. That is what we in the Progress Party demand in our primary funding model for the public sector service provision, that the state assumes responsibility for 100 pst. of the financing, directly linked to the users. I hope that the representative Andersen and several representatives from the Right have spoken for here today will be the model of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1705	We have provided a model to compensate the municipalities by providing them, during the transition period, with a crown for the crown amount, as well as the possible escalation that will take place during the three years we have asked for a transitional arrangement. There is still a lot of connection to differentiated employer’s fee as we per. Today, we are not quite clear because we are still in an exchange of letters and have a discussion in individual areas related to ESA. However, there is no doubt that the local government sector is initially not affected by EEA regulation, because the main weight of what you are doing does not have competition with others. But we can't ignore that parts of it will have it. And it would therefore be a relatively complicated system if we started to say here that we should have a lower employer’s fee in the municipal sector – and then we could have cross-border discussions. There is also no doubt that some sectors of private business could also have been in the situation where, not at present, but perhaps in the future, or perhaps never, such a competitive environment exists. But it's going to be a very bureaucratic system to put up with the belief that we should then sort of deal with all of these things as they evolved, and the economy and the market actually evolve. The main emphasis of the review of a differentiated employer’s fee comes to the autumn. I would like to stress that because there is a lot of uncertainty in this, we have said that it is really in the budget for the harvest that we are going to go through transitional arrangements, what the situation is, and what compensation methods there are. Then, of course, we will also look at how this will be done in the local government sector and, if so, whether there are alternative methods. We chose to add it to the North Norway grant and to the discretionary pot, because we heard from the local government itself that they had a wish for something that was permanent in the Criteria system, and that it should not be part of the discretionary pot. We accept quite well that in Stortinget you are not mature to think that way now, that you should first start up heads for heads in relation to discretion, and then consider over time if we can find some criteria, such as, for example, The Central Association of Municipalities has stated, they want a district criterion that captures the same thing, as a future part of a lasting type of compensation. Otherwise, I think we're going to have ample opportunity to discuss this. We haven't made any decisions about it. Our starting point is what we've put in now, a heads for crown compensation, which is actually going to be heads for heads. But we put this beauty in all of Norway, not as you put it up in North Norway, that you had to add a part of it to the North Norway grant. At the same time, I think we need to be able to have the perspective that perhaps the most important challenge for District Norway now is to make sure that competitive business does not lose the fight for the labour force and does not lose the fight for the relocation of jobs. This is where we should have the main focus on the consequences of the removal of differentiated employer charges, and perhaps not the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1716	I think that in this debate and in the discussion on the local economy, we are trying to deceive the municipalities. At least the Government and the Right are trying to do it. They're talking about increasing the municipal freedom and resources of the municipalities. But what happens is you remove some earmarked grants and schemes and don't add anything more. The freedom of action of local authorities depends entirely on the financial framework conditions, and it is then in the general framework that, in the event of an increase in municipal freedom of action, as well as an increase in the provision of welfare to citizens, for whom the municipalities are responsible. The municipal sector is the external branch of the public sector. Those who are employed in the municipality are those who provide services to people – for the most part, as a party uses to talk about here in the Stortinget. And the services that people need are what we're going to try to guarantee that they get now, by facilitating a good and healthy community economy. It does not happen at the arrangement of the Government, in my opinion. Another contribution to this debate was made when the municipal minister released the cats from the bag in relation to a differentiated employer’s fee. It has been tried to say that this has its roots in the EEA Agreement and the ESA provisions, etc., but it is actually due to a lack of political will of the Government, which has not taken this fight. Because, if you wanted, a differentiated employer's fee could still be there for the public sector. But you don't want to do that,' says the municipal minister now. That's okay – then we'll get it clarified. Does the Government want to make the municipal sector as vulnerable as the competitive sector? That's what's part of the end here. We can all be concerned about the competitive sector, but we are also concerned about the municipal sector because they have such a great responsibility for people's services and welfare. What's happening now is that the government says to compensate heads for heads. But in the last post, the municipal minister really said that it was going to happen during a transitional period, and it was going to happen through discretion. And then we know that some of these discretionary funds that are transferred to the municipalities are evaluated in total, and then I don't think this is going to be compensated for heads. So we have the word from the Minister of State that this will be for a transitional period. The 14 municipalities that have experienced compensation for changes in the employer’s fee do not only have good experience of this, and therefore there must be a completely different guarantee from the Government and the majority here if you are not to take the fight for a differentiated employer’s fee again with the system in Brussels. That's the Central Party's primary position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1729	I think it's a little immoderate to quote government councils for the wrong things or add something else. I have therefore explicitly stated that the public sector is excluded from the EEA Agreement. It applies to the competitive sector because it is not part of the EEA Agreement, such as: agriculture – and fisheries are also excluded from it. Of course, it is fully possible to make other decisions to maintain a differentiated employer charge for this type of sector, including for the public sector. That's what this hall is about. There is no fight the government has given up. But I've actually said that right for the public sector, I'm afraid that it won't be a sustainable system if only the public sector is going to have a differentiated employer's fee in the future, especially because in the future it'll probably be more unbureaucratic to choose to compensate this for District Norway through the income system. Then I have not notified that this is a transitional arrangement. I have pointed out that KS has actually wanted to have this within criteria, to have district criteria instead of having it as part of the judgements over a long period of time, and that gives us the full opportunity to come back to that at some point. I would assume that it would also be in the interest of the Central Party that there was a lasting regional policy criterion that made it possible to obtain this compensation, rather than that it was within the discretionary means. And then, for example, you would. could take care of those of the 14 municipalities that actually had the same characteristics, but which were so unfortunate that they got on the wrong side of the line in the previous round. It's actually some place where it's unreasonable that you haven't had it in the map. But I've got some letters from individual representatives from the Central Party also related to where the border is drawn today, and if you're going to continue forever to compensate those who happen to be within the system now, instead of getting sustainable criteria for the future that might have been more adapted to the real regional policy challenges, I think it's going to be a freezing of a situation that actually has many not been satisfied with, because at some point you've had to adapt to ESA. So it's not to let anything out of the bag or anything else. This is not different from what the Storing through other organs has been briefed on. The municipal sector is outside. It's optional. We can come back to the autumn. But we're going to add up to a transitional arrangement, where we compensate within it, and then we're going to have to make the real economic choices. Is it the case that in the future we will choose a more bureaucratic system, when we have simple schemes like the income system? We will have to have some border crossings in some parts of the local government sector where they are actually in competition with others, and there is likely to be more bureaucracy. And we all agree that, in the future, District Norway's biggest challenge is actually to take care of the competitive jobs and ensure growth through them. In the long run, District Norway cannot live by the fact that it represents the only jobs in some places.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1744	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3532]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1760	Here a speech-time limitation scheme has been adopted. The President wants to ask if there is anything against us finishing this matter before this morning's meeting ends. - No objections have been raised. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetition of the individual statements. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1773	In the document, the Labour Party proposes to promote measures to ensure that unemployed young people aged 20 to 24 are guaranteed a job, education or labour market offer, so that no one goes out of work for more than six months. Proposalers point out that labour market developments are very worrying and that the highest rate of increase in unemployment among young people aged 20 to 24 is among those aged 20 to 24. All parties in the Committee express concerns about the development of the labour market, not least because the increase in the number of unemployed is high among young people in this particular age group. Youth and young adults are at an important start-up stage in life, and long-term unemployment could increase the risk of many types of problems. We therefore all look seriously at the high unemployment rate and agree that the fight against unemployment must be a major issue. Targeted and reinforced efforts are important, for young people must not become accustomed to unemployment. There is therefore no disagreement in the Committee that education, secondary education, apprenticeships, ordinary jobs and labour market measures need to be seen in the context of meeting the problems, as stated by the State Council Norman in his letter to the Committee dated 21 May 2003. It shows that both information, advice and follow-up from Aetat are current measures for those who fail to work themselves. Furthermore, targeted job-seeker training and job-seeking in job clubs will be important. Moreover, a wide range of labour market measures will be an instrument against long-term unemployment. There is a broad political consensus that we need more entrepreneurs in this country, and the Committee emphasises in a note establishing course as a positive tool, as well as that we already have a system of founder grants under the SND and a job creation project under the auspices of Aetat. Overall, all these will be important instruments in a future deployment strategy. It is said that 20 to 24 year-olds are a group that goes a lot out and into the labour market, and that changes in the level of unemployment are very quickly reflected in this group. So far all the parties agree. But here our paths are separated. The Workers' Party's wish for a youth guarantee is supported by the SV and the Centre Party. On the other hand, the Government Parties and the Advance Party have no faith that a guarantee scheme is the way to go. We therefore want the proposal to be annexed to the Minutes. In the Right, we believe that public guarantees cannot solve the crisis many young people experience. However, it is striking to note that the Workers' Party's constant response to political challenges is to issue guarantees in the East and West. This is only cosmetics, not constructive politics. The issuing of guarantees leads to an increase in political contempt each time the guarantees are broken. We've seen that. Moreover, a guarantee of work, training or action could easily counter its purpose through bindings that create unnecessary rigidity and low flexibility in the labour market. The Labour Party introduced such a youth guarantee in 1995, and it was mildly unsuccessful. In 1996, the guarantee was broken against 5000, which remained unsolicited at all times, and against 10 000, which were put into action. Then it is better to bet on work clubs. It is more appropriate than printing valueless guarantees. It is important to have a targeted labour market policy that stimulates active job search and transition to work, offering job-seeker training to unemployed people who are unable to find work themselves and who receive long-term job-seekers an offer in the form of work practices and qualifications. The fight against unemployment is a major concern of the Cooperative Government. The government's aim is both to secure existing jobs and to create new ones. The most important thing that can be done to combat unemployment is to eliminate its causes. Business costs must then be reduced and labour conditions improved. In the budgets, we have pursued a tight policy – which has favoured the business situation. We've had interest reductions of 2 pst. And we're facing further interest reductions. There is a policy that will facilitate the situation of Norwegian enterprises and in the long term reduce the causes of today’s unemployment. Finally, I would like to address the minority's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1803	The representative Kari Lise Holmberg has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1806	20-year-old Kjetil Whistles from Brumunddal could take the step from the line of unemployed and over to work in the kitchen at the Brumunddal bo- and activity centre. He would have been available last year. In Ring cases and other parts of the country, young people from 20 years of age and down are a field of activity. Therefore, Aetat in Brumunddal could offer young Whispers a space for action at the centre of activity. The success of Kjetil Føtre was that he was still 20 years old and specifically prioritised through the Youth Guarantee, which guarantees the right to work, challenge or labour market measures. If Fletre had been 21 years old, however, he would have had to be in a position to keep up with other jobseekers in the fight for a few qualifying places of action. We can't have it like that. The Labour Party wants more action places for the unemployed. Young people under the age of 25 must be guaranteed a right to work, challenge or labour market measures. Labour market developments are particularly difficult and a major challenge. This negative development makes me very alarming. At the end of April we were able to record an increase in unemployment of about 30 pst. from the year before, and developments are even worse – unfortunately – for young people than overall developments in unemployment. In one year, the number of unemployed young people aged between 20 and 24 has increased by 36 pst, and the number of long-term unemployed in the same group has increased by 53 pst. This is unacceptable. We are aware that unemployment among young people fluctuates more experiencedly compared to economic trends compared to other groups of unemployed people. Therefore, a more targeted and reinforced effort is needed to address this particular group, and especially now when we experience a major decline in the labour market. Therefore, the Labour Party will propose that this group should be guaranteed the right to work, training or labour market measures. Unemployment rates for young people under the age of 20 show an increase of 15 pst. the last year. The reason why young people under the age of 20 are not equally hard at work is, among other things, the fact that they are under the age of 20. that they are specifically prioritised through the active use of labour market measures, in addition to the follow-up service. Through this Youth Guarantee, we actually have evidence that active and targeted efforts have a good effect. Job search, skills enhancement, job training and the preparation of work plans are good measures that prevent young people from becoming accustomed to unemployment. Entrepreneurship and establishment courses, as recommended by the Committee, are also a good complement to such measures. By analysing regular action sites in 2001, the central statistical agency has shown that 43 pst. of those who were participants in labour market measures were at work six months later. Only 27 pst. Of those who had not been in action, had been employed. This shows that interventions help, and that this can be and is a good alternative to work or challenge for young people under 25 years of age. It is now important to step up efforts to get more people to work. Unemployment is a bad thing that we have to fight against with full force, and it is especially important to focus our efforts on the youngest groups. We want more young people like 20-year-old Ketil Føtre, who came out of the unemployment line using active public intervention. That is why it is a little sad that our proposal, which is intended to ensure that all young people under the age of 25, are guaranteed an offer of work, challenge or labour market measures, has not received broad political support in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1829	I'll be brief. It is of the opinion that it is very important that newly-trained young people are not expected to leave. Therefore, special attention should be paid to this age group in relation to the provision of employment and education. However, when the Progress Party will not go as far as to provide a guarantee that young people aged 20 to 24 will be able to require a job offer, education or labour market action, so that no one becomes unemployed for more than six months, the explanation is as follows: It is doubtful that such a guarantee regarding labour market measures is the right one and the best instrument for this age group. The certainty that such a guarantee exists may in itself mean that some will not take an overwhelming personal initiative to obtain employment, pursue further education or be mobile in the labour market to the extent necessary. A number of evaluations of measures targeting young people in this age group show that provision of labour market measures has not had the full and desired effect. Experience and studies show that labour market measures have contributed less to helping young people into normal work. This is an essential element in questioning the introduction of a guarantee, as proposed. The Progress Party therefore wants to support initially the Government’s view and focus on dissemination and education for this group within the ordinary instrument system and the legislation currently in place. However, the Progress Party will follow developments closely in the future and, if appropriate, in the future, if the situation becomes more precarious, consider whether more targeted use of labour market measures for young people aged 20-24 may be appropriate. For these reasons, the Progress Party, together with the Government Parties, proposes that the document be annexed to the Protocol. However, the Progress Party will vote in favour of I in the proposal for a decision to consider measures to ensure the course of entrepreneurship for newly educated and long-term unemployed young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1842	We support the proposal in the vote to introduce such a guarantee. I really didn't get much wiser after hearing Kari Lise Holmberg's posts – why it's so stupid to do that. She showed, among other things: to the experience of the last time you had a type of guarantee. Now it's to be said that it wasn't a full guarantee, what you had at the time, but it was some sort of prioritization of this age group that made it more or less a guarantee in practice. What we're suggesting is that this should be a guarantee equal to the one that they have under 20 years. Then my question is: here is criticism from the government parties and the Progress Party against how the guarantee worked last time. This criticism has also been made in studies, through the Newspaper, etc. But Aetat said in the newspaper that everything that was negative at the time has been changed, and you have taken the experience with the work, and they thought it was strange that there was so much attention around such an old study, since they had actually done the things that the study pointed out, to improve this. So saying that work measures for young people don't work, gets a little special, I think, when my own colleges strictly say something else. The second question that I am left with after the article to Kari Lise Holmberg is: If you think that such a guarantee is a bad idea for them between 20 and 24 years, do you really think that this is a bad idea for them even under 20 years? Doesn't this work for them under 20 years? And isn't it just that it works for them under 20 years, which makes this a methodology and a technique that makes sense to also use for others who might be in a similar situation, but who are over 20 years old? I myself have family members who have received help from Aetat, and who are very grateful to Aetat, precisely because they have got a practical place after this guarantee. The major debate on unemployment will be held tomorrow in the context of the revised national budget. There is no doubt that high unemployment is one of the worst in relation to resourcelessness, not only in relation to the people involved, but also in relation to the long-term effects. If we look at the last waves of high unemployment, there has been a large proportion of young people who have not entered the labour market again after each time. It has caused us to have a step-by-step shift of the lower limit of unemployment, it has gone up higher for each time. In parallel, these young people who have not entered the labour market have been more excluded from the labour market. And as both the committee and the minister have discussed many times, we have a huge outstretch in working life that does not seem to slow down – an outstretch in disability. Then the question is, isn't it a very good point in such a situation to make sure that these young people are guaranteed a real offer that makes them more likely to get into work? We again know that young people are the ones who suffer the most when unemployment increases. Young people, together with people with a minority background, are those who are largely out of the labour market. We also look at the percentages we have: young people, immigrants and people with a minority background have the highest unemployment rate — if you look at groups. Then this is a warning to us: Introduce a guarantee! That is what we are proposing, and we think it is stupid that not the government parties and the Progress Party are on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1855	For this government – also, I can say – work is for all jobs no. 1st@item: inlistbox It must be. People at work are the most important resource in all modern societies. Therefore, the Government is investing in simplification and innovation, and therefore the Government is investing so much in bringing interest down. We can't have a high interest rate and a high dollar rate, and so we get rid of our legs under competitive business. The setting is short, and most of it has been said about the proposal for a guarantee scheme. But things are going on together, so it's tempting to say a little about the situation, because Europe is also experiencing a recession. What's most frightening, as I see it, is that some important, underlying trends didn't turn around in the short term. Demography is an essential element of weak economic development. When people get over 60, they don't invest in houses anymore, many not in new cars once. They rarely start a new business. It's the young people who traditionally invest, create and build. It matters to the economy. When Japan has an interest rate of 0.1 or less, it has a lot to do with demography. Europe is ten years behind. We fall as we sow, and I'm afraid that deflation is a greater threat than inflation in the long term. Now this is not a general discussion of employment. It was also said here. But Norway has a small and open economy, and even though we're an oil nation and we're rich in capital, we can hardly really cut off the economic world trends. But it's the job of full employment that's most important, also for the group from 20 to 25 years. And one thing is certain: the future requires flexibility for individuals and businesses. A youth guarantee, as suggested, will hardly contribute to it. In addition, although the increase in the number of unemployed in the group concerned is larger than the average, the actual long-term unemployment rate is not the largest among these young people. We have a youth guarantee for those under 20 years of age. It seems positive, and the government party has also said in the setting that they are positive to him. This was an answer to the representative Heikki Holmås. However, this is largely due to the fact that the continuing school is an offer that should stimulate them to benefit and that should work together with the Youth Guarantee. I guess we can't mean that everyone under the age of 25 is going to study. Let me stress that the Christian People's Party supports the intentions of the proposal. It's neither lucky nor healthy for young people to go free – it's not for anyone. But we don't think such a guarantee is the answer. The Christian People's Party also felt that there is reason to recall that the Labour Party with government power in 1995, with great unemployment, meant exactly the same thing as the Cooperation Government now points out. The government has strengthened Aetat, the intermediary service is to be improved – it is important. Otherwise, it is reasonable to expect that those who are under 25 will acquire their skills normally in cases where the labour market requires it of their employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1870	For the Central Party it is very easy to decide on this proposal. It is about answering yes or no to a question of whether there is a need to step up efforts towards those aged between 20 and 24 who are long-term unemployed. The figures show that 15,457 people under the age of 25 were out of work in May 2003. The figures also show that there were 2,499 long - term unemployed between 20 and 24 years in May this year, and that the number of long - term unemployed had increased by 53ps. in this group of one year. Then we think, as the whole committee says: ‘... that education, secondary education, apprenticeships, ordinary jobs and labour market measures must be seen in the context of meeting the increasing youth unemployment. Emphasis needs to be placed on skills enhancement, job search, job training and the preparation of individual work plans.» We draw the consequences of being on such an observation. We say that the Labour Party has taken an important initiative, and we support the proposal that is about to take action, so that no one is going to be available for more than six months. In connection with this proposal, the Centre has made a concrete proposal to evaluate measures to ensure the training of entrepreneurship/establishment of new and long-term unemployed young people. We thought it important not only to focus on education and employment, but actually on what we can do to stimulate new value creation. Here are the young people who walk around with ideas that they should be able to try out. We've worked with the entire committee on how to organize such a course. Of course, we will allow the Council of State to evaluate it more specifically, but we therefore believe that this should be followed up concretely. There is certainly a need for more entrepreneurs and for young people in this group to be able to start up their own business through training in setting up and developing their own business ideas. We are very pleased that everyone in the committee is agreeing on a comment on this and that the majority in the committee also support this proposal which is now being adopted. Now I have not used my entire speaking time, but I think that in this case I have been given the meaning that the majority support both I and II in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1888	I want to start by clarifying what the proposal really applies. There is no doubt that the increase in unemployment among people aged between 20 and 24 is a cause for concern. There is no doubt that this is a group that is both given priority and will be given priority in the work of Aetat to keep unemployment down and help people into work. The only question is whether a proper effort is in the form of a guarantee or whether it is in the form of the normal priority that Aetate is at least implementing in relation to this group. I would also like to remind you that the Workers' Party, when it was in position, even accepted a proposal to extend the Youth Guarantee to all under 25 years of age. The working party has today, and has always had, reflective figures. The current Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen referred in 1995 to a survey showing that most 20-24-year-olds who were unemployed were quickly channelled into labour market measures, ordinary work or education. He continued, and I want to quote that, because I think it was very well said: «Racial channelling of unannounced young people over to some long-term measures before the opportunities of the ordinary labour market are sufficiently tested is unfortunate in particular because it can reduce the chances of individuals entering ordinary employment...» I couldn't have said it better myself, and I think it's a little sad that the current representatives of the Workers' Party don't say the same thing that Sigbjørn Johnsen said at the time. It is true that unemployment in this group is rising sharply during a low economic cycle. It is also true that it is falling faster during a high economic cycle than for other groups, and it says something about the ability of this group to manage well in the labour market if they are helped to be close to the jobs and not parked on the sidelines of the market. There have been questions about why we should not have a guarantee for them between 20 and 24 years, when we have a proper guarantee for them under 20 years. It should be noted that, when the scheme currently operates well for the unemployed under 20 years of age, it is primarily because most of those in this age group are covered by the statutory right to secondary education and thus are not in the labour market at all. Therefore, the basis for comparison is not relevant. There is no automaticity in the fact that an extension of the guarantee will result in the same reduction in the number of completely unemployed persons between 20 and 24 years of age. As the experience shows very clearly, young workers in the 20-24 age group should meet with a strategy where they are primarily trying to help them directly in the many jobs that, after all, exist, then trying out job-seeker training and job-seeking activities in job clubs, and then perhaps using labour market measures, but only after other instruments have been tried. This means that the best way to work for this group is to work within the framework of the activities of Aetat in general and with the priorities that otherwise apply to the enterprise. It actually means that this is a priority group anyway. I also agree with the Committee's assessment that it is important to stimulate the creation of entrepreneurship and innovation in business, and that it may be reasonable to facilitate the provision of assistance to young people in this respect. I would like to remind you that the purpose of the new and simplified legislation on measures that came into force on 1 January 2002 was to give greater flexibility and greater individualisation, and therefore I hope that we will not have a new round of designation of the action programmes that Aetat is going to pursue. I will certainly follow up a request from Stortinget to consider how to strengthen entrepreneurship and start-up, but I hope we can avoid doing so through the designation of action programmes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19.ana.ud301e1912	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The meeting will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3538]]
