ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e32	They called the alternates for Akershus County, Harald Espelund and Christian Holm, have taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e52	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e59	This year, all parties which have dominated the post-war government offices have reached agreement on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget, based on the agreement concluded between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties. That's right, because there's a lot of government parties and the Workers' Party agree. Both the Government and the Workers' Party aim to increase assistance to 1 pst. of GNI. We're gonna be proud of that. Solidarity is about those with their strongest backs helping those who are not as strong. In the post-war period, when Norway was poor, we received support. Marshall aid was an important contribution when building the welfare state after the war, and is one of the reasons why we are where we are today. The Workers' Party therefore welcomes the Government's increase in the aid budget to 0.94 p.m. by GNI welcome. This is in stark contrast to the minority, the Progress Party, which in its alternative draft budget cut in the order of NOK 6 billion in development aid. They cut in the aid to Africa, Asia and the United Nations, to mention something. It's nothing new that the Progress Party is cutting development aid. The programme of the Party states that ‘compulsory unhelp’ must cease. I am pleased that the Progress Party does not get through for its unsocial cuts to those who have the least. A broad majority supports Kenya and Uganda becoming new co-operation countries, as proposed by the Government. The Committee attaches great importance to the need for this assistance to be focused mainly on building up good governance and combating corruption. It is a cross of thought that Norway maintained support for the Moi regime in Kenya long after it should have been clear how corrupt and brutal this regime was. The Committee itself was on a journey to East Africa and became fully aware of the destructive nature of corruption. In reality, it is a barrier to all economic and social development. I will – and I think I am speaking on behalf of the entire Committee – strongly support the efforts of the Minister for Development to keep this issue at the top of the agenda. That is all the reason when we know what warnings human rights organisations and non-governmental organisations are coming into one of our other cooperating countries, Uganda, have achieved a lot, and can be an example of how the fight against AIDS should be conducted in Africa. But the accusations of corruption to the top of the government are, unfortunately, too many. The budgetary position of the Foreign Affairs Committee is based on the framework adopted by the Stortinget on 26 November this year. The Labour Party had some proposals for changes to the Government's arrangement, which we are pleased that we have been able to reach agreement on in the budget agreement. We are pleased that the Government saw the importance of investing in the GAVI vaccine programme. This programme aims to vaccinate all the children of the world. Poverty and disease are linked because disease strengthens poverty, and poverty creates disease. Disease is itself a threat to several of the progress made to reduce poverty in developing countries. A vaccination programme of this kind could help eradicate diseases that are history in our rich part of the world, even in the poor countries of the world. A full vaccination of one child costs over 200 kroner. Vaccination is therefore a cheap and effective tool in the fight against poverty. With an extra contribution of 100 million. kr will be thousands of children better rusted against disease. Good health and disease control are prerequisites for economic development. That is why this is an investment for the future. We can now help that more of the 30 million newborn babies born each year without access to vaccination can get it. For the sake of order, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the redistribution that the contractual partners agreed on in the financial position has changed somewhat in this setting. This means that not all redistribution comes from cape. 163 Item 71 — Emergency aid, humanitarian aid and human rights. The contractual partners agree that redistribution from several different chapters is a more appropriate reorientation. However, there are some areas where the Workers' Party did not get an impact on its proposals in the alternative budget. We'd set 20 million. kr to North-West Russia. There are probably no other borders in the world where the differences in living standards are greater than at the border between Norway and Russia. A Russian man has an expected life expectancy of less than 63 years. A Norwegian man is expected to live for over 76 years. Child mortality is about five times as high in Russia. These are illustrations that the health situation in our neighbourhoods is worrying. The working party believes that further focus should have been placed on project cooperation in this region, especially in the area of health. The Labour Party did so in its alternative budget. The Labour Party also wanted to strengthen the fight against AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria by 10 million. kr. This too is a commitment where the fight against disease and poverty – and for increased standards of living and development – goes hand in hand. Through the UN’s Millennium Goals, the world’s country has committed itself to halving the proportion of people living in extreme poverty by 2015. I am pleased that the vast majority of parties in this Chamber take this objective seriously, also in relation to granting money to developing countries. An important contribution in this fight has been to strengthen some of the locomotives among the countries that speak the language of the poor. In this fight, Brazil and President Lula, the new president of the country, can play a key role in the years to come. We therefore proposed in our alternative budget to strengthen development cooperation with Brazil, including capacity development in international trade negotiations. The WTO negotiations in Cancún showed us the importance of this. At this meeting, some major and heavy developing countries were able to stand together for the first time. It was clear that Brazil had put on a leadership task. Brazil's new president has already begun building contacts with Africa. Some in the rich world view this as a threat. It is clear that there is a threat to the unfair world trade we have today, but at the same time it may be the world's salvation that developing countries will now be better able to stand together. We can't expect the poor countries in the long run to find themselves in the unfair world trade we have today. It is better that this be channelled into constructive forms, and that there be a more coordinated approach from the poor countries, so that we can get improvements towards a fairer world order. Otherwise, this could explode in our face, as we already see today. The poor countries will no longer be fed with mild gifts. They want fair conditions, especially in trade. I personally believe that the Cancún meeting was a historic turning point. The alliance of heavy developing countries that emerged, we're going to see more of when we're going to negotiate on both world trade and, not least, the distribution of power in the United Nations system. I think here we are seeing the beginning of something new, and it is important that large countries like India, Brazil, China and several others now come together to put this on the agenda. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the significant amount that Norway will allocate to the new EU Member States, DKK 1.8 billion each year for the period up to 2009. This comes as a result of the EEA enlargement agreement. It is visible evidence of what the Stortinget has said in the past that Norway supports EU enlargement because it is good for Europe and good for Norway. I would also like to add that by including one of the parties against Norwegian membership of the European Union in 1994, we have also received a concrete expression of the change of position that has taken place in Norway, not necessarily in the case of Norwegian membership of the European Union, but in relation to the view of the European Union itself and what it means in Europe and in the world at large. In 1999, large parts of the no-side felt that the EU was a threat to the environment, well-being and employment, and that the EU could become a new superpower that was opposed to strengthening the global institutions and the global distribution. Ten years later, an overwhelming majority in the United Kingdom will grant DKK 1.8 billion a year to strengthen the EU through enlargement. Such a change of attitude is also in line with the actual situation in Europe and the world, where we see that with the enlargement of the European Union, democracy and human rights are guaranteed to new countries and new groups on our own continent. The EU is our main ally in fighting for global agreements, such as: The Kyoto Agreement, the International Criminal Court and the strengthening of the UN system in general. This is evidence that a lot has happened in Europe and in the world, and that the debate in our own country has also taken other forms of looking at what is happening on our own continent and putting it into the global context. This is concretely reflected in a significant annual allocation for the coming decade.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e95	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e98	The representative, Jagland, was far from admitting that assistance to Kenya should have ended at a much earlier time. He referred to the Committee's visits to East Africa and Uganda, including: corruption is a serious problem and where the NGO Committee was informed that direct budget support does not contribute to the fight against corruption. Will the Workers' Party be involved in taking the lesson inwards and changing the aid, away from direct budget support and over to other assistance, so that we can avoid the experience we had with Kenya in the past, and which we might experience with Uganda now? We see problems with other places, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e105	It is quite right, as the representative Höglund pointed out, that we heard and learned a lot when we were in East Africa, Uganda and Kenya. The budget support we are now going to give to Kenya and Madagascar is not support that goes straight into the state budget of these countries, but it is support for exactly what we want to achieve, namely control mechanisms, national audit and the construction of institutions and administration to achieve a predictable governance. It's very important, I think, that we now stick to it, because that's the way we can support the new leaders, both in Kenya and Madagascar, who have clearly expressed that this is one of the main things for the new governments of these two countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e110	Can terrorism be combated by military means? This issue has been fully discussed since 11 September 2001. The United States has gone to two warriors since then, first in Afghanistan and then in Iraq, but the question is equally unanswered. What we are witnessing is that the world's greatest military power, with the world's most advanced weapons and intelligence systems, is fighting blindly against terrorism. The issue of terrorism can be combated by military instruments is also relevant to the Norwegian debate, where the defence is now increasingly opposed to doing just that, i.e. combating terrorism by military means, and preferably with NATO as the contracting entity. Does the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee think that the allocation of resources between military instruments against terrorism in the defence budget and the means of conflict resolution and aid to the external budget is balanced, or could he also imagine that more of the instruments went over the external budget, as we do in SV, in line with the fact that solidarity is giving strength to those who need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e119	There is an important debate here. We are likely to be able to discuss this in greater detail on the basis of the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement of approximately Two weeks, so here I just want to say a few sentences. Of course, terrorism cannot be combated simply by military means, but I would argue that it cannot be combated without military means. Probably we saw too easily what evolved many years ago, through the rather dramatic actions that took place in Nairobi and elsewhere. Now we have come to a point where we need to use tougher instruments, but of course it is also necessary to use other instruments, of a political, economic, humanitarian nature. But as the situation is, in my opinion, we cannot give the priority of taking from the defence budget to get to something else. I must remind you that we have many, many billions of dollars in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget for the purpose pointed out by the representative Bjørklund, and Norway is making a very great effort in many places in the world in that regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e126	First, I want to thank the leadership of the Committee for one, like always, interesting articles on foreign policy. At the end of his speech, the representative Igland raised the EU question, and I would like to confirm that the Christian People's Party welcomes the fact that free, independent nations want to choose the EU, thus fulfilling their criteria for democracy building, fighting corruption, and so on. It is positive that Norway supports it. At the same time, I would challenge the representative, Mr Jagland, when he says that it is beginning to be another debate, whether he can express, if that is his view, that in some cases the independence of Norway is important on foreign policy issues. A number of major conferences in some cases have shown that standing outside actually also gives you a status of your own. Similarly, as Mr Jagland said, the reason we said no in 1994, namely fisheries management and districts, is not yet resolved, and is still a great objection to any membership.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e135	I did not try to say here that the Christian People's Party was now in favour of membership of the European Union, but I tried to describe that we have a more coherent view of the European Union itself. So there's another question: Should Norway become a member? Obviously, we have the two special things, and there may be other things besides agriculture and fisheries, which are still very difficult for us. And I have to admit that over time, I have realized that the arguments of the opponents in 1994 at those points were good, especially in terms of fisheries. Then it is important, as Lilletun also pointed out, that due to its special position Norway also has some opportunities to make foreign policy advances. That must be admitted, but of course it must also be measured against the influence we could have had if we were a member, on the very heavy issues of global policy, such as environmental problems, poverty reduction, etc. But it's a debate that's very easy to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e142	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e146	We Norwegians like to believe well about people, and in foreign policy, it may have been reflected in the fact that we follow a slightly different attitude and thinking pattern than most other countries. We tend to believe that there is no need for a very strong and active care of Norway's own security interests and economic interests, because we assume that there are many others who are interested in taking care of. Maybe there are also some who also think of the idea that if we're very active in and demonstrate our commitment to helping solve other people's problems, it will mean that others are equally concerned about solving our problems on our behalf. This is not how the world works, and it is high time we discovered that this is not how the world works. It struck me in particular when, two weeks ago, I was going to read a resolution adopted by the European Parliament on 20 November this year on the new Northern Dimension Action Plan in the European Union. The keyword ‘northern dimension’ refers to Norway in a rather special way without doubt. This resolution is an interesting political document, among other things. because it shows that the European Parliament is concerned with something more than what has so far been in the catchment line ‘the northern dimension’, namely to safeguard the EU’s relationship with Russia as the great neighbour in the east. The reason why the keyword ‘northern dimension’ in particular has given its centre of gravity there is, of course, that it is our friends Finns who have introduced the term and who have been accepted for this concept in EU terminology. There are, in particular, two points in this resolution that ought to please the North. One point is that, in addition to the emphasis on the North-West Russia situation, it is important that the EU is concerned about the Arctic region, the Barents region, and also cooperation with Canada and the United States in the North. The other thing addressed directly is the relationship with the Arctic Council and Barents Cooperation. That should make a Northman happy. What, on the other hand, gave me something that might remind me a little bit of a shock damage, was the final point 20 of this resolution. The European Parliament concludes by requiring the President to ensure that this resolution is forwarded to the Council, the Commission, the governments of all the Member States and the ten new Member States and the governments of Russia, Belarus, Canada and the United States. There's a more than speaking silence here. And even though our absence softens somewhat by sharing our fate with Iceland and Liechtenstein in this context, it's a very useful reminder that being absent has its political costs. It may be time we started to wake up and discuss the extent to which these political costs are in the process of being incurred. As underlined in the 2004 Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget, the Atlantic Community remains an anchor for Norwegian foreign policy. The new security threats make it even more necessary to cooperate closely and closely. At the same time, cooperation with neighbouring countries will be strengthened. Norway's defence and security will continue to be anchored in NATO in the future. The alliance is the foundation of European security and stability, while we see that the EU strengthens its autonomous capacity for civil and military operations of the Petersberg type, i.e. operations of a humanitarian, peacekeeping or peace-building nature. The EU and NATO are currently developing new models of work sharing and cooperation, in which Norway, of its own interest, needs to follow particularly closely. Similarly, when we discuss Norwegian foreign and security policy, we must not lose sight of ourselves in our neighbourhoods alone. The value base of the cooperative government and the desire to intensify the work of a world based on international cooperation are reflected in the strong support of the UN, commitment to peace processes, work on human rights, comprehensive humanitarian efforts and significant assistance to poor countries. That is why I believe that we should support under the priority of the Government, which places poverty reduction at the centre in a significant way. It is positive that the assistance for 2004 comes in 0.94pst. of GNI. At the same time, it is quite clear from the Government that the objective of increasing aid to 1 pst. of GNI, fixed. In addition, we must underline the close link between the fight against poverty and the work for sustainable development. Therefore, follow-up to the Johannesburg Summit is positive, as is also demonstrated by the special priority given to environmental management in our countries of cooperation. Environmental emphasis is an essential part of the process of developing as comprehensive an approach to development policy as possible. A comprehensive approach takes into account the commitment of both poor and rich countries to significant reforms. Such reforms will include changes in the global framework for trade, debt and investment. It will include good governance in developing countries, more and better assistance from OECD countries and also mobilization and strengthening of the private sector and civil society. These are goals that we can all join. Similarly, in some regions of the world, HIV/AIDS has become an enormous challenge. Combating this epidemic requires a specific international boost. This is particularly important, bearing in mind that the UN's Millennium Goal on halving poverty by 2015 will not be achieved if we do not have the power to halt the spread of this epidemic. This is why it is appropriate to support the Government's proposals in the government budget for next year, proposing an intensified investment, including an increase of 30 million. kr through multilateral channels. In addition, it is also worth mentioning the global vaccine programme GAVI, to which I would like to express my full support. This is a targeted method of disease control. Now that the allocation of GAVI has been proposed increased to 300 million. kr, I believe it should be obvious that the programme should be evaluated at the end of the first five-year period. Everyone has an interest in Norwegian aid being as effective as possible. That is why I express my support for the modernisation of aid management. First, this conversion will help to make policy priorities more visible and clear, while making it easier to see what funds are used for during individual allocations. Norway is facing major challenges in the coming period, related to the formulation of our foreign and security policy. There are significant changes in our neighbourhoods, where the EU process is undoubtedly the dominant force of gravity. In addition, we see major changes as a result of globalisation. Our approach to globalisation is the same as that set out in St.meld. No 19 for 2002-2003, the Communication on globalisation. Globalisation is considered to be a good thing that gives us a world with new, great opportunities, and not primarily limitations. However, if this objective is to be achieved, strong institutions are needed to help maintain a clear international legal order in which regional and global security and cooperation institutions cooperate and complement each other. Through the appropriations now proposed for the Stortinget, Norway provides its share of the joint effort needed to establish a more regulated international legal order.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e172	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e175	The representative for Wage was very concerned about Norway’s interests in the northern regions of his speech. When the Right was in opposition, Russia was one of the areas where one wanted to make the most of it. Money, energy and work were used to strengthen this important work. However, the path from opposition to position appears to have reduced Righteous involvement and willingness to give. In our alternative budget, we chose to strengthen the commitment to health-related measures in Russia, and I can certainly say that it would not have made it more difficult to settle if this money had been put in place. I wonder if the representative can explain why the Right has chosen to cut heavily on the allocation to Russia, whether this is a result of less needs in the area, or whether there are other good explanations that make what the Workers' Party believes to be an important field of activity, has been deprived of by this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e184	Policy in the north is much more than Norway's bilateral relationship with Russia and Norway's financial support to solve problems in Russia. Of course, it will always be the case, regardless of changing government and opposition positions, that priority is necessary and priority is painful. The representative Eyegen pointed out that in his own draft budget, the Labour Party had an increase in this item of 20 million. kr. To that end, I have just to say that it was not of the increase in the Labour Party's budget negotiations that priority was given to getting through. So when it comes to the piece, I guess we're in the same boat, I guess.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e193	In the budget position five years ago, the Right wrote the following: ‘Just because we are outside the EU, it is important to maintain and continue an environment of competence that focuses in particular on developments in the EU and EU countries.’ Does the Right believe that the quoted objective is achieved through the year's budgetary position?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e203	The answer to that is: Yes, and it could to that extent end there. However, I assume that what the representative, Mr Höglund, has in mind, is primarily the comment of his own party in the vote, and the proposal to increase the allocation, in particular with regard to the continuation of the ARENA programme. It is clear that one could well wish that it was possible to maintain large and wide-ranging research and competence environments in this area. But I have to remind you that there is an ever-repeating problem here, namely that bets that from the beginning are defined as fixed-term, in this case a 10-year programme, regularly end up in the same problem when the period is over. I don't think the solution to that is to improvise some additions every year in the Stortinget. That's not the way to solve that kind of problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e210	In order to obtain a fairly reasonable distribution between the various parties in the case of the replacement of lines, the President chooses to give the last line to Åslaug Haga. It goes out on Bjorn Jacobsen. It'll have to be tested.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e213	Thank you, President. The center part appreciates it. I would like to follow up on the question put by the representative. In earlier times, the Right was very commendable about our neighbourhoods and our relationship with Russia. This is obviously the end of it, and the Central Party is very surprised that the draft budget provides a significant boost to cooperation with Russia. Now it is clear that the Right is on a line where Norway has to become an EU member, in order for us to be able to have an active policy towards Russia. And it is not surprising that the EU ignores Norway in its work on the northern dimension, as long as Norway has a government that does its very best for seafaring to downgrade that work. So my question to the representative's salary concerns what has happened to the Right's views on cooperation in our neighbourhoods. The fact that you are on the same boat as the Workers' Party is a poor explanation that you deliberately choose to deprioritize the financial support to our neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e222	If I understood the representative Haga correctly, her work hypothesis is that the reason why the European Parliament ignores Norway is that they have studied the government's draft budget and thus concluded that there is no reason to be interested in Norway. Once again, it must be to overestimate the importance of Norway in the world if you believe that the European Parliament is particularly concerned about reading Norwegian budget proposals. It must be one of the most bizarre explanation hypotheses that has been launched, I think. To the substance: there is nothing else to add but the fact that Norwegian financial assistance to help solve problems in Russia has been necessary and will continue to be necessary for some years to come. But what is far more important is to contribute to effective cooperation, where the Russians themselves will be able to bear a greater share of responsibility in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e229	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e232	This year, a number of fundamental issues related to Norwegian foreign policy in general and perhaps in particular to our aid policy have been addressed by several teams. This applies not least to the power investigation, which brings forward very interesting issues. This concerns the experience of the National Audit Office with certain aspects of Norwegian aid, and the historical production of Norwegian aid, which questions the impact of aid. With these recordings, it's with some amazement I'm recording that the debate that these reports and books travel, doesn't seem to be given particular attention in this room. You can be tempted to believe that the parties are most satisfied if you don't have a fundamental debate on what we as a nation and what the world around us is left for the billions for which the Foreign Affairs Committee has a special responsibility. A race is added, a truth is established. All attempts at rocking at the establishment are either taken to heart, you question the motives of the critics, or you take the other variant, that you meet one that there were previously problems associated with Norwegian aid too, but that this is much better now. With that tactic, it's clear that some of us never really get to grips with our arguments, even though we also came up with them several years ago, for a period of time one would like to admit that a lot went wrong, for example when it came to assistance both to Kenya and Zimbabwe. However, the Progress Party notes that we are soon to receive a separate message about our assistance work, and hopes that it will give everyone the opportunity to have the necessary reflection. With regard to bets in our neighbourhoods, especially in Russia, and issues related to preventive health and nuclear safety, it is sad to see that the majority does not have the power to raise this up and down, and that we therefore continue to give priority to this important work, which is contrary to what representatives of both the Labour Party and the Right have said in the past. Most people seem to agree that a major Europe debate is on the steps, and in the wake of the forthcoming enlargement of the EU, we will also have to make some choices. In order to make good choices, we need to have good information, actual information and also information provided and disseminated from a Norwegian point of view. Today, we have some good environments for this in particular. ARENA and the European programme. But at a time when the European debate is to be increased, it seems that these two actors are squandered, and the whole existence may be threatened. The Labour Party and the Right know where they want to go with the EU, and it is possible that it does not make it necessary for these parties to prioritise European research. But it can quickly turn out to be a short-term gain. The representative on the pay side referred to the need for general framework conditions, and I share that view far along the way. Nevertheless, five years ago, the Right chose the same approach as we are now choosing, to increase the allocation of the European programme in the field of foreign policy. The Progress Party is very pleased that a unanimous committee asks the Government to look at the basis for participation in the Deep Sea Project on Cook Island. This project will be able to secure the life base of the islands, as we secured ourselves with our oil resources, and it could give Norwegian industry enormous opportunities to participate in marine mineral extraction, where we should have all the prerequisites to succeed. Just drawing Norwegian business closer into our foreign policy is important for the Progress Party. Here we believe that we have some way to go, and that by some active action we can even more than today contribute to the integration of business, among other things. in developing countries. But to do this, we have to dry, and we have to be clear that it's an independent measure. We believe that changes to NORFUND's legislation and somewhat more flexible use of the pot there could give wider participation than today, especially to MUL countries. We are also concerned that our cut-off does not become too extensive, and that we do not endanger Norwegian jobs. Therefore, we believe that the removal of food aid should not be implemented now. We will give a tribute to the Workers' Party, which in its agreement with the Government was given priority to the GAVI vaccination programme. We see that as a positive improvement in the budget position. On the other hand, we are less satisfied that half of the coverage for this happens by cutting in the allocation of emergency aid. We are also very pleased that the majority of the Committee points to the responsibility of the Palestinian authorities for combating terrorism and that demands must be made in relation to the Palestinians when they receive Norwegian aid. A disappointment, however, is that the Government has found no solution for Plan Norway. We believe it is essential for both voluntary organisations and the state that support for voluntary organisations is based on objective criteria. The goal must always be what you want to achieve with the means you distribute. Then the question is, who can do this in the best way? I want to return to the assistance. I respect and understand that the majority, with its large allocation of u-help, wants to do something good and lasting for the recipients of the help. When we have a different approach to unhelp, it's because we believe the recipients are not served much of the unhelp given. We can show, to this extent, that we have historical evidence of our approach, and that it provides a better development for poor countries than the majority approach provides. But it does not seem that such historical facts play a role in the debate. Rather, the debate is more based on emotion than reality. Although the Foreign Affairs Committee hears from corruption opponents in Uganda that direct budget support to the Ugandan government does not promote desired development, as we record, there is no willingness to take this inward and to break the rising trend with support directly to the government of a country, although this government should not appear either as particularly democratic or eager to combat corruption. This way of providing assistance on trips raises a number of questions and dilemmas it is important to debate. We will strongly argue that this kind of aid makes poor countries poorer. It does not make the developing countries make the necessary changes, and it almost cultivates corruption. Individuals are forgotten, and the gap between poor and rich in these countries is only increasing, which should be a paradox to the most extent. Dependence on assistance does something with a country and often brings it into an evil circle it's hard to get out of. I guess there's just some of the experience with those who have been the biggest beneficiaries in the last 30 years. Few countries have managed to get out of this spiral. The whole state apparatus is directed towards operating the transducers. All the focus and planning is on donors' premises, and, as I said, you can't break free and start focusing on your own resources and your own opportunities for growth and wealth development. We hope, if not in this debate, at least in the next debate next year, that we can get a thorough review of what works and, not least, what does not work, and that we can see that the ODA percentage as a guide is far from what determines whether the world's poor is facing a brighter future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e275	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e278	I understand very well that the representative Høglund and the Progress Party get annoyed when people ask questions about their motives for addressing the development cooperation. I see that motive quite clearly from the party's side. Therefore, I should not ask questions about the subject, but ask questions about what Morten Höglund concluded with, if the assistance works, because it says the Progress Party that he does not do much. Then my question about Morten Höglund may be concrete instead of saying that the u-help doesn't work, or as it says in the setting, 'all too often delays the necessary reform work in the developing countries'. What kind of example is he thinking about, and what kind of reforms is what he wants to happen in the developing world, which does not happen because of the assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e287	We would like to have a debate on these examples and experiences. Southern Africa is the continent that has received most of the Western aid and development aid and, unfortunately, has ended up in a spiral of poverty, out of which these countries have to a small extent escaped. If you go back a few years in history, poverty in Africa was not greater or different than in many other countries, for example. on the Asian continent. But they chose completely different grips to get out of it. To establish opportunities for nutrition, respect for property rights, opportunities for e.g.: being able to inherit a house or a business – such fundamental, simple grip and respect for the kind of values we are used to – is the kind of reforms I can mention.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e294	In the budget, the Government sets out the rules for the award of tenders in the field of assistance and is committed to ensuring a level playing field after the closure has been completed. The database established for information on tender information on aid-financed projects and the planned restoration of the tendering guarantee scheme are, in this context, important measures. The Progress Party's general budgetary observations state: ‘These members believe that Norwegian foreign policy needs to take care of Norwegian business interests to a greater extent than at present’ and that ‘this is about including business in activities done with Norwegian funds abroad’. In fact, it is further stated that: ‘a decoupling of assistance in most contexts is positive, but in some cases binding will be important to ensure the continued involvement of Norwegian industry’. The question then becomes whether it is that for the Progress Party, principles have been adopted in the aid work, which we only cost ourselves when it serves our own interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e311	In order for decoupling to work, this must be a full opening up of international markets. Therefore, we mainly support the principle of decoupling. The decoupling we believe should not proceed so quickly is the decoupling of food aid, where no such international agreement has been reached, and where we are putting Norwegian jobs at risk in favour of jobs in other western countries. It's about having the same code and respect for it, and then we want to follow adopted principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e316	I note the zeal of Höglund and the wish that we should discuss more assistance. I shall follow up the line that the representative Blankenburg had, starting from the exact same part of the comments from the Advance Party. In fact, development aid too often delays the necessary reform work in developing countries. So it turns out that development doesn't just seem bad, but it actually leads to the opposite result. I think it's interesting input, but I think it should be better documented from the Progress Party what you put into this. What kind of reform is it missing? Is it such reforms that we have developed in Norway, as a blessed good tax system, so that we got money into the common fund, or is it the pay and working conditions that made us get well distributed in Norway as well? I should like Morten Höglund to be a little bit more precise when it comes to what kind of reform one here sees is threatened.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e323	I'd like to get back to this very thoroughly, but in general, if you look at developments in southern Africa and the situation in those countries, you haven't come out of the vicious spiral. The countries are in a hurry to fight against corruption, democracy and human rights. All of this is related. When the aid has been so extensive and you have not been able to get to the countries in a positive way, you have to ask the basic question: are we doing something right or are we doing something wrong? How have we dealt with other countries in the world that have changed dramatically and have managed to work out their problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e328	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e331	Between the north and the south, there is now extensive work on how to reach the Millennium Goals. On the one hand, we in the north have promised to deal with aid and debt extinguishment schemes such as real monars, while countries that accept assistance have to do something with good governance and anti-corruption work. The new thing about the Millennium Goals is that an effort to create a global partnership that sets goals and at the same time allocates reasonable concrete tasks to the individual parties. In SV, we interpret this as an increase in the politicisation of development policy. We have put it into practice, and we know that in several areas it is the political will of the rich countries on which it will be. It is a matter of willingness to provide assistance, but also of eradicating debt and facilitating fair trade with countries in the south. “That you can’t be left, –/but never that you don’t want to,” are some words of Ibsen that can be good to have on the road ahead. I think I'm going to say that it's easier for us who are rich in money, to get ahead of a unilateral deletion of those parts of the North-South debt that might be called illegitimate, to get the initiatives that go through the Paris Club and the HIPIC initiative to become even more effective at cleaning up debts that are a lump of foot when it comes to development in many countries. The fact that we can, as can and will, are at the heart of this debate. I'm afraid that the most difficult part of the struggle against the Millennium is getting a good governance in many developing countries. For many poor countries, the so-called PRSPs or poverty strategies are part of a good governance system and are intended to make the fight against poverty a more national task. In the past, assistance was characterised by project thinking, while in the various countries the Ministry of Finance is now taking the problem of poverty into account in all political thinking. And to all intents and purposes: Research shows that the debates on poverty strategies have created new arenas for domestic policy dialogue on the theme. In SV we also see this partly positive development, but we are afraid that there is too little development of local government. If large parts of the total resources of poor countries are still to be included in out-post debt control and input assistance, there will be too little of the budget to stimulate a real internal political debate. Many governments will be in the situation that they owe money to, or get help from, are more important conversation partners than own national assembly or own people. This is not least why debt cancellation is important, so that the revenue that a person has in spite of it can form the basis for political debate on how to spend the money in own countries rather than just captivate the debt. By Christmas, we will be discussing the message of globalisation. In this context, the Millennium Goal No. 8 on global cooperation is central, the introduction of a trading system that is regulatory, prudential and so-called non-discriminatory. We are in a situation where the rich countries export jobs, while poor countries have problems with low wages and poor working conditions for those added, if they have jobs at all. At the same time, commodity prices go one way, and it's downwards. The political challenges we face are the sharing of jobs without paying wages and dishes, the creation of market access for poor countries and agricultural products, while agriculture in the north is not being wiped out, and the obligation to keep the land under claim is also on the ground. SV took a small step in the right direction when, in our alternative budget, we proposed this year to eliminate an estimated 370 million. kr in agricultural export subsidies. Of course, this could also have been incorporated into WTO negotiations, but we thought it was good to get it into as a little germ to actually do something with export subsidians. This is where the rich countries must begin, go where we can, where only the political will is missing. And then we get in the back of the mind that if we're going to get the greatest possible effect of the aid budget, we have to see it in conjunction with all of the other factors that play in. The SV opposed the fact that Norway sent 150 soldiers to Iraq and opposed the fact that the aid was to be financed from the existing aid budget. The defence budget is the right place to get money for military contributions, although I also see that the military forces have done humanitarian work. But we'd got more for the money by e.g. to give to humanitarian organisations, if it was humanitarian tasks we really would have done, or if it was mine clearance we were really after. Now it has become apparent in retrospect that 'humanitarian' also means attack, whether we or the British are being attacked. So who can separate us from the British? The United Nations General Assembly has had an overarching theme in the past. It has our security for humanitarian personnel. We know that we are in a situation where humanitarian and military efforts are mixed up. We know that from the Afghanistan debate, when SV asked for a stop in the bombing to get humanitarian aid before winter. In Iraq it has become so bad that many organisations have seen themselves forced to withdraw due to the difficult security situation. The so-called humanitarian space, as a red cross, a red half-month or other sign of humanitarian work meant before, is about to be swept in. The war is becoming even more inhuman than he needs to be, and we risk losing something of what has been achieved through decades of work to protect civilians in war, if the distinction between humanitarian and military efforts is made null and void, unless the great powers themselves practice a strict interpretation of e.g.. The Geneva Convention, and if we get a development in which auxiliary workers are made targets for acts of war. Today, the security situation is out of control in Iraq. In its opinion, SV is responsible for overseeing the power of the Iraqi people via the UN of the U.S. occupation. Today, it must be clear – even for the Progress Party in this Chamber – that the war against Iraq was a huge mistake. It is now, among other things: That the United States went to war without having a proper plan for what would happen after Saddam's regime fell. The situation that has arisen is probably a more dangerous situation for the world than before, precisely because Iraq has now become a place that attracts terrorists, and where hatred towards the West has been nourished. I'm not saying that it would be best if Saddam had continued. But it would be best if one had put in place a more long-term and sensible strategy for international aid for democracy in Iraq. In the shadow of the debate on the security of auxiliary workers, it is difficult to achieve security for Iraqis. So far, it is estimated that between 5,000 and 10,000 Iraqis have been killed in the war. Once the war comes to an end, the costs come to an end. These are losing again an already narrow man's relief and emergency market. We're back where I started, that we have to show the will to give more aid and clear up debt, which is becoming more difficult if poor countries all the time will look after the clearing of the wars rich countries set in motion themselves. SV provided an alternative budget, where we wanted a sharp increase in the rights to peace work, including in Norway. We then started with a significant addition of the external borders. Within the framework, we also proposed some increase in support for peace organisations. Information for peace is an important work that should be strengthened. There is a mismatch between the supplements paid to civil organisations receiving more than 55 million. D on the defence budget, and grants to organisations working with peace and disarmament. SV asks the Government to reserve the contribution of organisations that are not supported by the Ministry of Defence. The size has now been submitted to the reorganisation of NORAD. For SV, it would be more natural to take this debate in conjunction with the announcement of the morning news. One of the reasons for this is that the reorganization may follow the kind of aid policy that Norway should actually pursue. If more funds are sent through multilateral organisations, and if this weakens the participation of voluntary organisations in the aid policy, some of the questions SV might want to discuss more thoroughly. Nevertheless, the most important thing is that we get an aid management that does not become weak, but is able to maintain quality and performance orientation. The situation in the Middle East is only getting more and more dramatic. In Israel we see that Prime Minister Ariel Sharon gets criticism from his own ranks for his warfare within the Palestinian territories. Soldiers and officers state that they do not want to carry out assault orders that are illegal or immoral. They're refusing to take part in their aerial attacks on civilian territory. The wall is being built on as if nothing had happened, and it's happening far beyond the green line from 1967. On the side of the SV, we will ask the Government to make an even clearer criticism of the Israeli government that the policy that is being pursued is both outrageous and impulsive to put the security of the Israeli population in further danger. The Palestinians are more likely than before the conflict was escalated, cut off from living on their own labour. As an occupant, Israel is also responsible for the Palestinian people’s basic needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e359	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e363	I didn't really intend to take a line, but when I heard what I heard about the contributions in Iraq, I must say the following: If you now insist that Norwegian military contributions should not be humanitarianly cut, I feel that you are on wild roads. For example, you want to do this. not for Norwegian NATO soldiers in Kosovo to accompany children to school, which is one of the main missions? Don't you want NATO soldiers to protect the civilian population who will get to the store in Mitrovica to act? This is, of course, the driving force of the Norwegian military force. That's why we've become so popular, precisely because we act in such a way that it has a humanitarian averaging. Then you can discuss Iraq in width later. But I'll warn you not to get on this would way that, for example. The clearing of mines and the construction of bridges and roads to provide humanitarian aid are contrary to the humanitarian work of voluntary organisations. They must be unpolitical; they must be completely separate from military operations. That's what you're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e370	The reason why we're taking this up is that we see clear signs that soldiers can be expensive one day and drive and vaccinate cows in the mountains of Afghanistan, while the next day suddenly soldiers. Our point and what we're looking for is that this gets mixed up. The civilian population in the country it owes does not know how to separate soldiers from humanitarian workers. We don't know what this will be like when the war is over. Will then the trust necessary to get a proper humanitarian work be destroyed? There is an important distinction between humanitarian spaces. Without the humanitarian spaces, it is impossible to do a proper emergency work. Here Norway should dry as a nation. Instead of perhaps being with and supporting up during a war, we should say that we are in the war, because at least we are for our own part sure that there is a war we are in. We see that even solar data can become uncertain in this area: Are we in a war, or are we in a humanitarian operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e377	I would think that the most important thing is perhaps the question of those who need help being helped, and that it might be a more important question than this slightly up-to-date discussion of the borderline between military and humanitarian forms of action. I noticed that the representative Jacobsen used the slogan “more for the money again”, and it is a pleasure that it has slipped in at SV. But I have some problems understanding how to get more money back through humanitarian aid organisations in Iraq, when these organisations themselves have withdrawn because it is not possible for them to operate in the zones of Iraq. So I almost have to ask Jacobsen for help in clarifying how it's going to be possible. Otherwise I noticed that Jacobsen didn't quite, I think, have come to realize that the word indebtedness can have one or two s's, because he used it consistently with two, that it's about total debt cancellation. I have seen that the problem is rather relief from the burden of debt.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e384	First of all, I can assure the representative that I have taken this up even with the reference section. In an earlier debate, in which wages also participated, there was talk of whether there were two or one s in debt. I'm going for two, and then the wage itself can do the right thing for how many s's he wants, because there's a big difference. So back to humanitarian missions. There's no doubt that, not least for our own part, we should define what kind of mission we're on. Both Espen Barth Eide, former State Secretary for Workers' Party Government, and Jonas Gahr Støre, formerly active in the Labour Party, are clearly going out saying that a contributing cause, for example. to close their office in Baghdad, there is a risk that international work will be much more difficult for humanitarian aid organisations. International relief work is at risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e391	SV wants to give poor countries the opportunity to use management tools, and refers to what Norway could use many, many years ago. The world has probably changed a lot since Norway pursued such policies. Many poor countries are using control tools, they are shutting down. Do EN have any examples of countries that have been successful in not liberalising their economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e396	All countries, including Norway, is an example of the fact that one by building its own industry behind customs walls and shielding its own industry has gained growth and development. I'm not going to draw all of that reasoning again, but the representative, Høglund, also knows that UNDP's report which clearly shows that if one opens up too quickly, before one has built up its own industry, it will help to crush its own industry for the benefit of imported products. So it is quite clear that too much free trade, too much liberalisation, will prevent industrial development in own countries, whether it is in Norway, in Uganda or wherever it may be.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e401	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e404	Dag Hammarskjöld, the second Secretary-General of the United Nations, wrote in his diary before he died: ‘If it is given to me to continue... firmer, simpler, quieter, warmer’. Hammarskjöld died of an aircraft accident in Africa before he completed his work. In the interview before the budget work this year, the members of the Foreign Affairs Committee had just traveled to Africa, Kenya and Uganda. It gave us a chance to raise our eyes from the domestic debate. I came home from that journey with a renewed understanding of why we are doing political work. And the words of Hammarskjöld give inspiration. The target is clear. We want a fair distribution, not just in Norway, but between all countries and peoples of the world. To achieve this goal, we need to work harder, simpler and not least warmer. The Christian People's Party slogans are just a warmer society. A warmer society is a world in peace, that children feel safe, eat saturated, get an offer to go to school, and that they have a home to come to. Our biggest political challenge today is that the gap between the poor and the rich is increasing. Life years in many developing countries have improved, but poverty remains the biggest global challenge. Still, 1 billion people live in extreme poverty. Norway is a small country with great wealth. This gives us a clear duty to take responsibility for our fellow human beings in poor countries. Norway has set itself the goal of eradicating poverty. The international Millennium Goals oblige us to make an effort. The government takes the consequences of this and will now increase the assistance to 0.94 pst. of GNI. The goal is to give 1 pst. of GNI for aid that can make the world fairer. Overall, over EUR 15 billion will be allocated to assistance in 2004. The goal is to eradicate poverty, and education is a means of achieving this goal. The Co-operation Board has made training the main focus of development policy. Education is a human right and a fundamental prerequisite for eradicating poverty and developing a democratic society. Many developing countries are making great progress in obtaining basic education for all. For large parts of the world, however, the outlook is gloomy. Good assistance can help change this. Therefore, the Government has increased the investment in education by about 200 million. DKK in 2004. It's a pleasure that most of this money will go to UNICEF's girls educational program. There are still 123 million children lacking basic education, and most of these are girls. For many countries, the HIV and AIDS epidemic has become a disaster of such great dimensions that it threatens all measures to reduce poverty. Data from the WHO and the UN AIDS Programme show that in 2002 some 42 million people were infected with HIV. The disease hit the poorest hardest, and is a special burden for women and children. If we're going to be able to stop the spread, we have to work on multiple fronts at the same time. Prevention, care and treatment deliver results. This shows experiences from Uganda and Cambodia. No one can fight this global epidemic on their own. Developing countries must show leadership, and the international community must remain silent with active efforts and necessary resources, and action from courageous individuals is required. Everyone has to take responsibility for their own lives and those of others. The Christian People's Party is working for Norway to be clearly associated with the world community to do its own. Norway is today the third largest donor to the UN AIDS programme. The Christian People's Party supports the Government's further active efforts to fight AIDS, and the aim of strengthening efforts for better and more equitable treatment for HIV-infected and AIDS. The 2004 budget provides for an increased commitment to the fight against AIDS, including: an increase of 30 million. kr through multilateral channels. The Christian People's Party also supports the strong commitment to the GAVI Global Vaccine Programme, and believes vaccination is a targeted method of fighting disease. Norway must actively contribute to the evaluation of the programme at the end of the first period. Soil, water, air and sea pollution have consequences for human health. WHO has calculated that 25 pst. of all diseases we can prevent are environmental-related. Again, women and children are most vulnerable. Increasing urbanisation is a particular problem. The number of people living in big cities is increasing dramatically. One billion people today live in slums. They live in a shed where a scarcely anyone can call for a dwelling. No water has been supplied, no electricity and no sewage system. We saw some of this distress and the unworthy conditions in Nairobi's slumby, and it made a strong impression. Improving their living conditions is important, necessary and possible. The Millennium Goals and the Johannesburg Follow-up Plan state that by 2020 at least 100 million people living in slums will have improved living conditions. Norway must be a driving force for this goal to be achieved, and we must support those people in the slum who themselves are working to improve their own living conditions. We can do that, among other things. by facilitating so-called micro-financial measures. We now see hope for peace and democratic development in Kenya and Madagascar. In 2002, both of these countries had a political shift, and they now have regimes that focus on good governance, the fight against corruption and the fight against poverty. I am therefore pleased that there is now broad support for the Government's proposal to turn these countries into new countries of cooperation. This will lead to a strengthening of relations and longer-term development cooperation with these countries. Norway has long cooperation traditions in both countries, and that gives us a good basis for further cooperation. Kenya is a central country in a region where Norway is heavily involved in bilateral development, humanitarian aid and peacekeeping. After a political time of darkness, Kenya is now once again a country with hope for a new future. A 40-year-long mismanagement is about to be replaced by a full democracy. It was exciting to see how the new government is betting on the fight against corruption and has put it at the top of the agenda. This is where our assistance to Kenya must be put in first place: the fight against corruption and measures to promote democracy and human rights. Political developments in Madagascar are good. Now that we're making Madagascar a partner country, it's in the hope of strengthening just the good forces. The dictator Ratsiraka was thrown last spring. The new president, Marc Ravalomanana, has addressed the major problems of poverty and corruption. This is promising. There are close links between Madagascar and Norway. Since 1866, Norwegian mision has been working on education, health services, agricultural training and public information on the island. NORAD and Norwegian universities and colleges have also cooperated closely with the gases. The new aid cooperation will therefore be reflected in a long tradition of Norwegian-gas contacts. Madagascar is one of the poorest countries in the world. Fragile infrastructure and devastation create major problems. Up to every other child under two years of age suffers from malnutrition. Seven out of ten gases live below the poverty line. It made a strong impression on our big group to see the distress when we visited Madagascar in September. But it is inspiring now to meet representatives of the new board, and it has sparked new hope. The Foreign Affairs Committee also visited Uganda in the fall. The country can show impressive results in the fight against AIDS, but still has major challenges in democracy, good governance and the fight against corruption. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that budget support for Uganda must be used in the fight against poverty and cooperation to strengthen respect for human rights and democratisation. Above all, there is an urgent need to find a solution to the conflict in northern Uganda. The situation here is extremely alarming. The population is exposed to brutal abuse and suffering. Children are particularly vulnerable. We must not forget their situation. We therefore need to maintain a high international commitment to the conflict. A peace agreement in Sudan increases the chance that after 17 years of conflict, the conflict in northern Uganda can also find a solution. Norway has played a central role in the peace negotiations in Sudan. The Christian People’s Party asks the Government to consider using this central role to also press the authorities of Sudan to resolve the conflict with the Lord’s Resistance Army, the LRA. If we are to manage to reduce poverty and achieve the Millennium Goals, there are several fundamental challenges that need to be solved. The main challenges are wars and conflicts, the HIV/AIDS epidemic, weak economic growth, corruption and lack of good governance. We cannot change this with help alone. During the time we have been providing assistance in Norway, there has been a deeper recognition that economic growth, good governance and the fight against poverty are different aspects of the same issue. There is also a greater recognition that national ownership and better coordination are necessary for development. Better access to markets and investment are other measures that rich countries need to contribute. The need for action is obvious. What remains is the will to act. In many parts of the world, the voluntary sector reaches more people than the public. We therefore need participation from the local environment and civil society if we are to be able to fight poverty, environmental damage and AIDS and for human rights. Voluntary organisations play an important role in long-term development cooperation and in the Norwegian response to global poverty. Measured in terms of funding, non-governmental organisations are the main channel for Norwegian bilateral assistance. Support to or through these organisations will continue at a high level also in 2004, reflecting the important role and responsibilities of organisations in development policy. I want to finish where I started, with the Secretary General of the United Nations – now Kofi Annan. Kofi Annan has launched a project to reform the UN. Here it is important that Norway plays an offensive and active role in making the UN more democratic and effective. We need to strengthen the UN and support the work of reform, thus strengthening multilateralism, especially now in the age of globalisation. Together, we're going to work harder, simpler, quieter and warmer for the world's poorest.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e456	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e461	I noticed that all the travels made by the Foreign Affairs Committee have made a deep impression on the representative Rise – except for the journeys in Europe and developments in Europe. I have a question that is a little bit more specific to the budget. This is what the Christian People's Party found necessary to include in the Middle East. Now we're not going to deal with all the questions about all the countries we're working with, corruption issues, and so on. We often leave it to other discussions, also because we know that the Government is making an effort in this area. This is also true of the Palestinian regimes: Ein knows that the government here keeps this under supervision. What, then, is the reason why the Christian People's Party feels it necessary to point this out specifically in the setting? Is there a warning that the Christian People's Party is forbidden to go down on cooperation with the Palestinian regimes?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e468	I think it was useful that the representative of Blankenborg addressed this very point in the budgetary position, because in my opinion it is a very useful point made here by the members of the Right, the Progressive Party and the Christian People's Party. We simply point out that it is necessary to improve the human rights situation in the Palestinian areas of self-government and that the Palestinian Authority must step up its efforts against terrorist groups. I thought there was a broad consensus on that. The same majority of the Committee believes that it must be made quite clear to Norwegian aid recipients that it cannot be accepted through, for example: School books and other public material are encouraged to act as terrorists. Then we have also pointed out the importance of getting an overview of the finances. We have pointed out the improvements that have taken place, but also made some assumptions for further support and pointed out to what the IMF points out in its report, that funds made available by the Palestinian leadership of social services for the Palestinian population should be left to relevant ministries. And I really think the Workers' Party should be involved in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e478	The Progress Party has put a searchlight on assistance that does not work. Corruption leads to the exclusion of poor countries from important areas of goods and work. Here, aid often helps to make richer and to turn up the prices of the corrupt. As a small example, the attitude we learned from our visit to Uganda and Kenya was: Why should we pay lawyers when we can buy the judge? This is money that the poor don't have. My question to the representative Lars Rise will then be: Why is not the Christian People's Party more critical of where aid is going?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e485	I think it is nice that the Advance Party is engaged in the work against corruption, and so is the Government. In the general comments of the Progress Party, the problems related to aid funds are highlighted. You talk about the abuse of money and corruption. And then the Progress Party is committed to investing in both international relaxation, peace and respect for fundamental human rights. But then we see that in the draft budget of the Progress Party there are a number of posts that are just going to advance what is the aim of the Progress Party. I have to say that it amazes me quite strongly when you cut billions of dollars on e.g.. committed international cooperation – it is an objective of the Progress Party. Then you say it's a goal to get international relaxation and peace, and there you cut 600 million. kr. Understand the one who can. Furthermore, the Progress Party says that it is very important to focus on respect for fundamental human rights, and then cut civil society and democracy development by 200 million. kr. How are we going to fight corruption when you cut money?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e492	An ever-reversing issue in the aid debate is over which a budget will be charged to refugees in Norway. This year, it's worth over 800 million. kr. SV believes that accepting refugees should be a very priority task. But we are critical of the fact that so much of the cost is going to go over the aid budget. Is the Christian People's Party and the representative Rise some in this? How does one view that this should be resolved in the long term?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e499	The refugee problem in the world is increasing from year to year, and above all, we should be happy that we are now able to help many refugees who are on their way from war, distress and oppression. But once again we see that SV is more concerned with the bookkeeping than with the help that is actually given. We agree that it could be an advantage if you had such a division as Bjørn Jacobsen wants. But now it's like the international community has actually approved this. It's ODA-approved funds, and that's what the representative Jacobsen knows about. But I believe that the most important thing here must be that help is given, and not exactly how it is disrupted. Otherwise, we are with SV in the wish that all our assistance should go to the needy abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e506	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e509	There are many highly topical foreign policy issues that would have been tempting to debate. However, I am going to spend my time bringing up some of the issues that the centre party is particularly concerned about, which are directly linked to the budget, and which are too rarely addressed through debate. That doesn't mean there aren't many other things the center party is also busy with. The Party welcomes the increase in the assistance framework, but notes that most of the escalation to 0.94 pst. GNI is linked to ODA-approved measures for refugees within Norway’s borders. It is seaworthyly satisfactory for the Government and the Norwegian maritime feeling that we are approaching the golden 1 pst, but I would like to stress that the Central Party still believes that refugee measures should be financed from the budget of other departments. With regard to the foreign minister’s share of the external budget, it is scarce — and too scarce in important areas. This particularly affects project cooperation with Russia, which the Central Party believes is very unfortunate. That is why, in our budgetary option, we have both increased the funds for cooperation with Russia and reallocated funds for the same purpose. The current chapter of the budget has been subject to planning for a number of years. This year, the item is reduced from 320 million. NOK 235 million. kr, and in the last year’s budget agreement it was reduced by 30 million. kr. I would therefore like to stay a little while at work that is being damaged by these cuts. The Norwegian-Russian border is not only a border between countries, but also, as other speakers have been here, a border between huge differences in living standards, social security and the environment. Norway obviously has a particular moral responsibility for, but also enormous self-interest in assisting North-West Russia. Despite the success of improved tuberculosis control, funded from the U.D. budget, there remain enormous challenges related to both tuberculosis and other infectious diseases in North-West Russia. There is a strong demonstrated need in this area, not least for the control of multi-resistance tuberculosis. We know that the high incidence of TB, HIV/AIDS and other infectious diseases will lead to increased infectious pressures in Norway. This is a new ticking bomb right outside our own living room door, which we can't and should not neglect. The centre party believes it is very unfortunate that the nuclear action plan will also be allocated less resources. I guess we all agree in this room that it is in our own interest to get ahead of the nuclear safety work. And now that the agreement with Russia that will make it easier to do this work is beginning to come into place, it makes no sense for Norway not to follow up on appropriations. Norway took over a few months ago the Barents Presidency, a forum that has been very important over a decade to develop cooperation between people, organisations, businesses and administrations at different levels. It is essential that the Barents Secretariat be able to continue its operations at a high level until next year and in the coming years. I think it is most regrettable that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not provided positive long-term leadership for the work in the Secretariat. It is the responsibility of the Ministry to contribute to the continuation and preferably increase of cooperation at regional level. The lack of willingness to prioritize cooperation with Russia contrasts in stark contrast with Norway's commitment from this year until 2009 to pay more than DKK 1.8 billion a year in the very comprehensive financial mechanism of the EEA. I am amazed that this contribution has not brought more attention and debate than it actually has. I fear that it will be a strenuous exercise for future governments to find room for these expenses in an already tight budget. I also ask questions about how the government has solved the challenge for next year. Given that payments in 2004 are still unpredictable, only 100 million have been committed. kr to the two new financial instruments. At the same time, a total of DKK 1.2 billion is dedicated to the commitment mandates. I must say I am amazed at this practice, since the size of the budget line is not consistent with the size of the commitment mandate. This practice helps to obscure the enormous financial obligations assumed by the Government and negotiated. I think this will create considerable headaches in the future, not only because of the size of the financial commitments, but also because I doubt that both donors and recipients have the necessary administrative apparatus to handle these cash flows. But the centre party will come back to this matter seasily during the treatment of St.prp. No 3rd@item: For the sake of order, let me stress that the Central Party is, as a matter of fact, engaged in assisting with the Eastern European countries. The question is how to do it, and I doubt whether the EU system is the system in which we achieve the most efficiency and the most targeted use of assistance. The deafening silence of the government regarding our relationship with the EU is strikingly countered by the fact and information about Europe. There is a need for professional expertise on European issues in Norway and for this information to be raised. The voter treatment of, among others: The European programme, which has for a number of years imparted knowledge about Europe in Norway, and the ARENA, which have developed considerable international respect, is not in any way in the sense that even the yes side implies that they want a factual and factual Europe debate, now also a membership debate. The central party set aside 7 million in its alternative budget as an emergency response. kr from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget to ensure the activities of the European programme and of the ARENA. Let me also draw attention to the U.D.'s work on press, culture and information activities, a work the Centre Party believes should be strengthened, and that we have strengthened by 20 million. kr in our alternative budget. This field represents a major unused potential both for Norwegian foreign policy and for Norwegian business. There should have been a completely different focus on the marketing of Norway internationally, both above the U.D. budget and above the Ministry of Industry and Trade budget. This comes back to the Center Party in an interpellation in the New Year. Finally, a substantial part of Norwegian aid is channelled through large aid organisations. That's the way it should be. However, Norwegian organisations must of course be treated in the same way according to technical criteria. The size continues to benefit from a good explanation as to why the organisation Plan has not yet been given a decision as to whether they can obtain a long-term framework agreement. Despite the fact that the committee referred to this issue last year, the matter is equally well founded. The central party expects the Government to take a decision on the matter as soon as possible and, where appropriate, to secure appropriations for the organisation in the revised national budget for spring. Since I have left a minute, let me so far touch the reorganization of the foreign management apparatus. I would like to stress that it is up to the Government to organize its apparatus. Therefore, our party has shown considerable restraint in the setting in relation to how this should be done. But it is not necessarily indifferent to the Stortinget on the apparatus of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and in this case the Minister for Assistance, is organised in a way that ensures that financial resources are well managed. That's why I think it's very strange that the government parties with the Christian People's Party at the head have not been involved in the evaluation of the reorganisation being presented to the Storting. This must mean that you have little faith in the changes that you are proposing. The Central Party believes, in principle, that departments should be cultivated as policy instruments. That is why we are generally sceptical about involving several administrative tasks in a department. But I see that this is the model that you have chosen for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I just want to highlight one point that I think is important. When you choose to take on more administrative tasks, and you say in parallel that you want to delegate more to the foreign stations, this work must be organised in such a way that we do not get overlaps between home and outdoor appliances, nor do we get a conflict of competence between home and outdoor appliances.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e541	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e544	To the question of the Norwegian professional environment on European issues, I would just like to make a brief comment. At my discretion, it is not natural that this should be financed through an approximate fixed basic budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, neither the European Programme nor the ARENA programme. Firstly, it is contrary to the principles of Norwegian research policy, and it is not an appropriate way to maintain that type of environment. That seems to me to be very much demonstrated by the fact that these annual debates have been held in the Foreign Affairs Committee on something that is not really the Foreign Affairs Committee's table, but because the lobbying is addressed there. So a slight remark about the question of Russia. You can get the impression from Åslaug Hagas that this stands and falls with the number of trillions in the Norwegian state budget. The point of Norwegian cooperation with North-West Russia, which has been developed for many years, is to engage a broad international environment behind it. Norway has actually succeeded, and that is actually much more interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e551	Without wanting to create total confusion in this Chamber: I agree with the representative on one point, and that is that the basic appropriations for the ARENA and the European programme should not go beyond the U.D. budget. Ideally, other ways of financing these institutions should be found. But now the situation is that the Labour Party, and as far as I understand, also the Right, wants a new membership debate in the relatively near future. Then it is important that that debate be based on the facts, that we manage to hold the debate at a level that is worthy of debate. From that point of view, I believe that we should take care of both the European programme and the ARENA, because they will be important suppliers of premises in order to increase knowledge and bring maximum seriousness into the debate. That's why I'm sorry that you don't want to be part of strengthening these environments, and I'm afraid that will make us even more plagued with party speeches than we have been in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e556	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e559	The year’s budgetary review shows that there is a broad consensus in the UK on the UN Global Development Goals on halving the number of poor in the world by 2015. Norway can and will contribute to the achievement of this objective. The objective is ambitious, and many countries have to make a significant contribution to achieving the objectives. There is a broad consensus that development assistance alone is not enough. In particular, the Doha Round negotiations, also called the development round, will be important to ensure economic growth in poor countries. Especially in Asia, we see that millions of people are working out of poverty, among other things. as a result of participation in international trade. It is, however, particularly when new areas such as trade in textiles and agricultural products are on the agenda that countries in the poor south could benefit from increased trade, and in particular if liberalisation is combined with security clauses, as the Doha round of negotiations now suggests for developing countries. At the same time, it is important that liberalisation in the new areas, the so-called Singapore themes, should not be put under pressure on developing countries until they themselves have matured. In the Workers' Party, we are committed to providing support for capacity development for participation in international trade negotiations for developing countries. In our remarks, we refer to the leadership role that Brazil took on, among other things. in Cancún, and we believe it is important that the voices of developing countries can be clearly heard in international negotiations and in international cooperation. So in our alternative budget, we are proposing to increase the budget by 10 million. kr to capacity development for participation in international negotiations. It is also important that Norway act with credibility in order to safeguard the interests of developing countries in international negotiations. Of course, Norway is not a major player in the WTO negotiations, as a few times can get the impression here at home, but our attitudes are noticed. In particular, we are promoting proposals contrary to the interests of developing countries, as happened in Cancún. I am pleased that the commitment to education in the field of assistance is stepped up. As far as possible, development aid should be targeted at enabling people to cope with themselves. In this way, training is one of the most important instruments. It is of particular value to ensure that girls receive education. There is an increasing understanding that disease control is a necessary prerequisite for combating distress and suffering in the Third World. I am therefore pleased that the budgetary agreement ensured a strong strengthening of the vaccine alliance GAVI in the year's budget, while giving signals of equivalent support for five years to come. GAVI is a highly targeted disease control method. The vaccine alliance will contribute to: that most countries at least will have achieved routine vaccines for 80 pst. of the population in all districts by 2005 that the world will be polio-free by 2005 that hepatitis vaccination has been introduced in all countries by 2007 December 1st was the world's AIDS day, which was marked heavily in large parts of the world. Also on this question, Nelson Mandela appears to be a marked moral leader. Our Black Death Epidemic calls for solidarity and action. Poverty reduction or development aid becomes meaningless if the disease that intervenes so deeply in both the social and economic structures is not stopped. The medicine and the help are available. But there is a need for money, good leadership and training of personnel on a large scale. Every day 14,000 people are infected. It says a little bit about the dimensions of the measures that need to be taken to stop the spread of the disease. Globally, infection rates are increasing most rapidly in Russia and the former Soviet republics. As we see it, we joined the Workers' Party to strengthen cooperation with Russia in our alternative budget, with particular emphasis on health-related projects. Russian health services have a very big challenge in getting control of the spread of HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis. It is a cross of thought that the positive commitment and solidarity that exist in Norway to help our neighbours in the east is so little reflected in the budgetary decisions that are being taken today. I also ask questions as to whether the level of support for nuclear safety cooperation is correct, taking into account the enormous environmental challenges we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e591	First, let me express great satisfaction at the fact that the draft budget that we have promoted to the Grand Duchy is largely in agreement with some of the amendments which are readily acceptable. In my ministry, it may be a little different than in some other departments, because less policy is exercised through the use of resources, but nevertheless there are very important policy instruments that also require resources, for which this budget provides us with opportunities. The budget is built up in a rather flexible way, and over the last few days, I have learned to appreciate it significantly. I would like to mention to Stortinget the discussions we had in connection with the OSCE Ministerial Meeting on Monday and Tuesday. That's how far we've seen a very successful transition of power in Georgia. When I use the word successfully, it is because this happened without the use of violence in a situation that could have triggered violence. There is no doubt that what triggered the transition was major electoral fraud, but it also took many years of disappointment at the political results that leadership has been able to deliver to its citizens. There is no doubt that Georgia is facing very big problems, with a run-down economy, with corruption, with little money. Not least, legitimacy must now be created for those who are now to lead the country, first and foremost through a presidential election, but then also through a parliamentary election. But the situation is that it doesn't have Georgia resources to implement in the short term. Our budgets give us the opportunity to assist, to be flexible at the notice of the day, and so have we. Together with some other member countries of the OSCE, we have been able to tap into the immediate resources of the Georgians to implement their choices. The flexibility of budgets makes it possible to work that way and be quick when the situation requires it, and so we have done that. I had a meeting with the President-in-Office of Georgia at the OSCE meeting. There is no doubt that Georgia appreciates the assistance provided by Norway, not least as regards work on internally displaced persons, a work they want us to continue to do, and which will undoubtedly be important also in the current situation of Georgia. It's also a country, I think, that will call on our interest and our assistance in the time to come. There is no doubt that the country is facing very significant problems. We need to make clear demands on what to do and on how to engage Norway, but that we need to take greater responsibility in this area, I feel sure. And as I said, this budget puts us in the situation that we can make those contributions, and that we can be flexible in a situation that is now difficult to fully understand. I would like to comment on a few of the questions raised by the leader, where he correctly underlined what is now happening in the field of trade policy. I agree with him that it is very interesting, what happened in Cancún, by the fact that heavy, important u-land was able to gather. Now it's like the group that gathered in Cancún, it's not as big as it was, and it might not be strange. There is no doubt that the u-country group is not a monolithic group. There is a group where there are different interests and different points of view, and therefore it must be that these groups vary slightly in size over time, slightly depending on which questions are in focus. But it does tell us that they will be a bigger and heavier player than they have been before. In this context, we must not forget what is often important to Norway, namely that the small developing countries must also have a vote. And it is true that when developing countries look at trade issues differently, it is also important to contribute to capacity building, not least among the small ones, because the large ones, like Brazil, will always be able to cope with their situation. But we saw in Cancún other initiatives from the developing world that are important, for example. the so-called cotton initiative from four countries in West Africa, in which they simply ask for fair conditions in the sense of stopping subsidising their own production in the rich countries. It is clear that there are important initiatives that have been promoted by the four, and that are definitely in need of our attention. Now it's not like all the developing countries are doing, necessarily the right thing. I would like to remind you of the debate we had in some years on African socialism, how much money was wasted on an idea that turned out not to fly particularly well. And that's also what we'll see, of course, on trade issues in the future. That's why we need to have a stand of our own on all of the questions that are up. But there is no doubt that what is an important consideration for Norway in these trade negotiations is that the trade regime should also contribute to development in the Third World. It's solid for us. As a result, demands will also be made to those of us who are becoming difficult, and there is no doubt that the group mentioned by the leader has made demands to us in the area of agriculture that are difficult. There's no reason to hide it for a moment, that's what it is. I had other opportunity to discuss these issues in detail with the Brazilian Foreign Minister, who is probably one of the heaviest on the international trade issues, when it was a state visit to Brazil, and there is a dialogue I want to continue, and I realize that it is in line with the thinking that also Jagland is making. There is another reason to stress that not at least many in the developing countries now want to get some of the negotiations back on track. It was not long ago that a Nordic-African Foreign Minister's meeting in which this was a very clear wish from the poor countries. I agree. It will require some of us all to get these negotiations back on track. I never get tired of saying that those who believe that everything is best warned by the fact that the Doha negotiations are just sinking into the sea and disappearing will not have seen the challenges we are facing. I understand the domestic policy temptation to hope for it, but it is a line on which the Government is not, and which is not the majority of the Biggest either. So two words about the EEA contribution, which the manager was also in. There is no doubt that this contribution is very significant, but I think we also see that without this contribution and without the EEA Agreement, significant parts of Norwegian business will have bigger problems than they already have. So I expect that everyone in this room who is busy spending money will also be interested in supporting under what is necessary to continue the EEA Agreement, that is the entrance to safe jobs in Norway. I also have to say that with the size that this post has been given, it is also more than a contribution to keeping the EEA Agreement in check. There is a political justification behind this amount, and it is simply that the poverty gap that is going on in large parts of Europe should also help Norway to balance, and this is therefore a contribution to it. Much of this contribution will also go to countries that are relatively close to us. There is no doubt that a country like Poland will have relatively large portions of this contribution, which should and should, both because of its size and because it is relatively close to us, and imbalances in the Polish economy will without fail be something we will see the consequences of this at home. So I've chosen not to say so much about Iraq now, partly because I'm going to make a statement to the Grand Council on 15 December, and partly because it's part of the defence budget, which is also being dealt with here in the Chamber this week. I am therefore not going to go into all the assessments that Jacobsen expressed. I just want to mention one thing that I think is pretty important to have at the bottom here. Of course, what we see from the use of bombs, the use of violence and the use of rockets in Iraqi society is something we have to take the strongest distance from. This is the basis for, among other things, the private organisations withdraw and can no longer be in the area. That there are occupying powers that are responsible for keeping this in check, is okay, but it must be quite clear from our side that the basic thing is that there are forces that use this kind of means. I'm assuming that the whole Storing is set to take a distance from. If you just keep track of the basic principle, actually a lot of other parts of the decision-making chain fall into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e622	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e625	In recent years, the appropriations for aid have been cut off. The appropriations for, for example: Russia, as we have discussed earlier in the debate, has been reduced year by year. Next year, the aim is to make a new leap in the field of u-help – to believe the Sem Declaration. What this will do for our efforts in Russia will be exciting to follow. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that the strong focus on ODA-approved assistance provides the necessary room for action to ensure important concerns in our neighbourhoods?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e630	It is a fact that the ODA rules themselves do not allow us to use aid in Norway’s neighbourhoods. You can't equal it or you can't equal it. There are many political considerations behind this, but the rules do not allow access to it. It's also the case that we have a goal like this big one, which is to increase ODA assistance. We just have to record that this is an actual relationship. As far as aid to Russia is concerned, it is at a high level and has been at a high level. It's joyous, because we're also in a situation where the Russian economy is clearly rising. This means that the total results in this area will be better in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e637	The situation in North-West Russia is very worrying, particularly as regards the development of infectious diseases. It is a problem for the Russian people, and it may be a significant problem for the Norwegian population. Nuclear safety cooperation is also very important. We have a very dangerous situation there, which the Foreign Minister is familiar with, and with which he has also been known. The representative of the Wage said that even the Right would have liked to spend more money for health purposes in Russia if they had been forced by the Workers' Party. I therefore ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: is the decline we are now seeing in the appropriations for Russia, a trend that will continue, or must the Government be forced?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e644	Let me first say that in terms of the objectives, it is not least nuclear cooperation, which I have noticed that the committee also underlines. I think in many ways that here lies a lot of the main challenge. We're also doing a good job of that area. But just to make it very clear how it's being budgeted: it's of course that in any state budget you have to agree on some main sums. What is reasonable and correct in terms of the Norwegian economy? When those elements are in place, the rest is a question of distribution. What is the problem of any government — including this government — is, of course, the number of bonds contained in the current rules, and not least in the decisions taken by the Stortinget. I just want to make it clear that there are many things that we would like to do more of. But not least the bonds that a lot of people have to impose on a government will limit the possibilities we have to do things in other areas. For this reason, the question of what will happen from 2005 onwards will, among other things, be addressed. are concerned with the commitments contained in the budgets. I hope that they are as few as possible. If the bonds are few, it will be possible to increase this part of our expenses as well – in addition to what we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e653	All Norwegian relief organisations that I have seen comment on the role of Norway's military efforts in Iraq have considered this to be a problematic mix of military and humanitarian aid. The same is true of the entire Norwegian foreign policy research community that I have seen comment on this matter, I believe. Research director Barth Eide at NUPI says: ‘The government can protest as much as they like, the use of the term ‘humanitarian soldiers’ appears to be increasingly problematic because Norwegian soldiers assist the United States and England as occupying power.’ Jonas Gahr Støre, new secretary-general of the Norwegian Red Cross, says that this blending is part of the reason why the Red Cross had to withdraw from Iraq. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that these are relevant, heavy counter-conceptions that it is important for the Government to engage in dialogue with these organisations to find out how this can be cleaned up?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e667	It is clear that dialogue with heavy players is important for the Government. Listening to arguments is also important in this context. At the same time, it is important to take decisions, because this is not least about the civilian population in Iraq. I think we need to be aware of the situation, precisely because we have forces in Iraq that I am sure Kristin Halvorsen also takes a strong distance from. They affect the security situation in Iraq, so that voluntary organisations withdraw. The advantage of the Norwegian contributions is that they have a capacity for self-defence, which allows them to be there and implement measures that benefit the Iraqi population. These are arguments that I think it would be right to put forward in such dialogues. I am sure that the balance of positions that we have made here is correct. It's like, when you're sitting with responsibility, it's easier to see that on the other side of the argument, there's actually someone who benefits from what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e676	I'm dealing with the budget. Next year, 100 million will be granted. kr to the new financial instruments in an enlarged EEA. This should be escalated up to DKK 1.8 billion per year. The centre party has some concerns about what will happen over the years to come, because the Foreign Minister’s budgetary framework is scarce – very scarce. This means, among other things: that it has been significantly cut in appropriations for Russia this year. Now I understand from the foreign minister's answer to the question from the representative Eyeågen that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has proposed cut because he believes the need in Russia is smaller. It worries me. I would like the Minister of Foreign Affairs to elaborate on this – what is the reason for the cuts now proposed, and whether we can expect further cutbacks when the support to EU countries is to be increased dramatically over the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e685	I have understood from previous discussions that it is an expression of the rule technique when I say that some of the premises at Åslaug Haga are not always correct. I'm probably going to have to exercise it this time as well. Because I didn't say that, I actually said the opposite: there are questions about how many total commitments there are in the budget, that is, the budgetary freedom we have within a responsible budget, which tells us what opportunities there are to increase the posts that we could expect to increase in isolation. I think that's the formulation I used. It was better the answer to the representative, Høglund, to whom Åslaug Haga refers, where I said we are fortunately in the situation that the Russian economy is rising. Within the areas for which the Russians themselves are responsible, it gives them more opportunities to do something. But it is not possible now to budget and tell what kind of budget proposals we intend to make for 2005 and, hopefully, also for recent years. It depends on the freedom of the budget we have at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e693	We've got a new campaign in Norway, a wide-ranging campaign called Riv Muren. Of course, it is about to tear down the international lawless wall that is now under construction in Palestinian territory on the West Bank. This campaign is based on the fact that the construction of the wall must be stopped, and what is built must be demolished. The campaign also has a good and fundamental basis in the UN resolution of ours that the occupation must be stopped and that Palestinian suicides must be halted. In the Norwegian debate, we have seen that former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch has participated in an event in connection with this campaign. He has, among other things, stated that the construction of the wall is unwarranted by international law, and he believes that the construction should be stopped immediately. Is it so that the Right and Foreign Minister share the opinion of Kåre Willoch?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e700	I assume that this question is not based on the premise that the government has not been clear and clear in the question of the wall. The representative Jacobsen knows that I have spoken a number of times about the wall. I have made contributions to the UN Security Council, which has also been concerned about it. One thing is that Israel naturally has the right to defend itself, but it is quite clear that this wall is being added to places that are going to make the subsequent negotiations extremely complicated, and that already make the daily life of many Palestinians very problematic. So this position has been clear and straightforward for a long time – in fact before there came a temporary wall on the Egertorget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e707	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e710	Norwegian foreign policy must have as its primary responsibility to safeguard Norwegian interests through committed international cooperation, with a view to international decoupling, lasting peace, free world trade and respect for fundamental human rights. We believe that open markets are the best way to create economic development. For this reason, there is a need for a strong reduction of trade barriers and protectionist measures. Not only poverty, but also poor governance and corruption, hinder development in large parts of the world, which developing countries themselves have to take responsibility for, by pursuing policies that benefit communities and facilitate growth and development. Very many countries have been affected by internal, violent or inter-country conflicts. This poses a continuing threat to development and poverty reduction, and it is essential that help from other countries does not get into wrong hands and helps to increase the distance between poor and rich, or prolongs an ongoing conflict. Effective assistance from rich countries can contribute positively, including goods and services. Therefore, the role of private industry in aid should be strengthened and the rich countries should give developing countries better market access, in particular in agriculture and textiles. There is little point in enabling a country to produce export goods, when it is not willing to buy them, or obstacles are being placed in the way. Our foreign stations help to be our eyes and ears out, and are well aware of the needs of our countries for both imports and exports, which are important both for business and for assistance. The Progress Party will highlight the importance that Norwegian foreign policy must primarily aim to ensure important Norwegian interests, and that this must be reflected in the priorities of the Ministry and our foreign stations. Well-organised terrorist networks pose a threat to the entire democratic world, so Norway must continue to put the fight against international terrorism and crime high on its agenda and on its priorities. As regards assistance, the Progress Party is sceptical about the current strategy of Norwegian aid work, where a large part of the assistance is channelled through State aid actors such as NORAD. I will in no way deny the competence of Norway in this area, but I believe that the unhelp to be provided in the future should be channelled more through coordinated international efforts through the UN and through voluntary Norwegian and international organisations. There must also be greater demands on achievement of objectives than at present, and evidence of the results achieved must be expected. This must be a requirement for all those who provide public assistance in order to achieve maximum efficiency. Where the beneficiary countries of aid oppose the transparency of their aid or where much of the aid disappears in the State distribution apparatus, the aid should be required to be given directly to the groups for which it is intended. It is also necessary to highlight how the country uses its own funds when choosing the country of assistance. The amended proposal, proposal No. 1 is distributed in the Chamber and is thus included with the other Roman figures in the proposal of the Progress Party, proposal No. 1, which is included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e729	The representative Christopher Stensaker has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e732	First, I would like to pay tribute to the Minister of Foreign Affairs to be so clear about the Middle East crisis, and about the construction of the illegitimate wall in Palestinian areas. We are aware that the government has given clear notice at this point. It is important that it is done and that it is repeated frequently. What is now the desperate situation is that Norway initially has no role or platform to assist directly in the conflict. Our role may have to be first and foremost in international contexts precisely to speak clearly and address matters with the United States, which has the key to press Israel into entering into other and more equitable, peaceful solutions that can last, both for Israelis and for Palestinians. It is very difficult to imagine that the strategy that Sharon has now adopted will bring peace to someone in the near future. But it's good that the government is ready. What I intend to focus on in this post are some assessments of the security situation in Iraq. Let's just be completely clear about what's going on. There is a serious security situation for the civilian population in Iraq. There is a serious security situation for the forces involved, and according to international law the occupying forces have the task of contributing to security and stability. Now, the situation seems to have either mobilized groups that have been present in Iraq from before, perhaps also groups that have been in other countries in the region to wage a war of resistance against the United States and the United Kingdom and the occupying power of Iraq, as a fight against the United States from these to some extreme groups. What is tragic is that it seems like the United States and the United Kingdom have had a strategy to win the war, but not a strategy to win the peace. It cannot be won with military power alone, it must be won with political building of legitimate power, and it is clearly part of the cause of its failure. As long as the United States and the United Kingdom of Great Britain are regarded as illegitimate rulers in Iraq, situations that are sharp and dangerous and that may require a significant number of lives will continue to develop. So the challenge for the whole world community is to get this on the table that the Iraqis see that there is a clear plan for the Iraqis themselves to take over the control of their own country, and that there is a clear plan for the UN to take responsibility for the use of power. In this situation, Norway’s challenge is that the role we have is unexplained. I'm not going to go into the priority debate today, because I expect it to come back to the Stortinget on December 15. What many humanitarian organisations have pointed out, and which many experts from foreign policy environments have also been concerned with, is that it is obvious that the United States and the United Kingdom, as occupying power, have a responsibility for security and responsibility and a duty to be those who initially exercise military power. Norway has not wanted to be part of an occupying power. Norway, together with Spain and Italy, does not — and the UN does not — consider itself part of an occupying power. That is why another heading of Norway’s participation in Iraq has been tried, which is said to be humanitarian. That's where the immaturity comes in, and that's where it becomes confusion. Both the role of Norway in the Norwegian political debate is undecided, and of course it becomes unclear as to the Iraqi civilian population which soldiers are occupying soldiers and which soldiers are humanitarian soldiers. This is a problem in Iraq, which is a very big challenge for the Government to clean up, and which the humanitarian organisations have been very concerned about. They are concerned that the space for humanitarian aid — which is neutral — in a country where power is not legitimate becomes small, and that is part of the challenges they face. This is a completely different situation than in Kosovo. In Kosovo, Norwegian soldiers under NATO command contribute to a peacekeeping force, where the heading of what this force is to do is quite clear and clear. It's about safety. It is also about security in relation to the civilian population and school children, and it is about the ability of such a force to carry out humanitarian tasks. This is a demanding debate to which we should definitely have a much more principled approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e749	I am pleased to note that the budgetary position confirms that there is a broad consensus on the broad lines of Norwegian development policy both in terms of the mechanism for cooperation and the stepping up of the level of assistance, as from next year, with the decisions today, will be 0.94 pst. of GNI. The road map we are now operating on the development side – and I am pleased that several representatives have been involved in it – is combating poverty through the UN's Millennium Goals, the very concrete objectives for halving the number of people living in extreme poverty and hunger by 2005. What's good about these objectives is that they provide concrete guidance on how to achieve it, both concrete goals and guidelines, so that there is agreement on objectives and instruments. It has been new in the international context for the last two years. We recognise that for the first seven thousand-year targets, developing countries themselves have the primary responsibility to achieve these. So they have a national responsibility to ensure that their citizens get a better living situation. At the same time, not only is it consistent with the development situation in the different countries. We also need a global partnership that is reflected in the eighth objective, and that says something about the responsibility that we, the rich countries, have to shoulder. So they have to deliver better, and we have to deliver better. Here I would like to say briefly that we have to deliver better on four fronts at the same time. The first concerns the international framework conditions that include debt, trade and investment, and also the real coherence of policy – what many like to call ‘coherence’ – consistency. There is no doubt that this has a very great impact on the economy of the developing countries. For example, many developing countries are losing. twice as much under unfair trading conditions as they receive in assistance. That is why I am also pleased that this has received attention today through Mr Jagland's speeches, his focus on the situation in the Cancún negotiations and the very legitimate demands of the developing countries, which the Foreign Minister also mentioned. For many years, unfair and poor framework conditions in this area have undermined what has been tried at national level and through development. The scope of the debt is of similar importance in relation to the economy of the countries. In this case, it is a debt cancellation, but in some cases it is also a debt cancellation, in order to replicate a previous post here today. Delivering under the international framework conditions is a central task for us. So we cannot just believe that we are fighting poverty with aid. It won't last. The other thing that has to happen is that the poor countries themselves have to take a greater share of responsibility and take responsibility for their own development. It is a strategy to implement policies to reduce poverty in your own country, to keep your house in order, to improve your governance, to contribute to the efficient management of your own resources, to respect human rights and to ensure democratic decision-making processes. It is important here for both economic and political reforms. Again, to comment on some of the debate: there is no doubt that significant economic and political reforms have been implemented in sub-Saharan Africa throughout the 1990s. Of course, there are no targets, but there are very large reforms that have been carried out and that would have been very difficult even for us if we were to go through them within such a short time horizon as these countries have had to do. The fight against corruption is also very important here. The third front, and it is conscious that it comes here, is aid – more and better aid. As we know, international calculations say that we need to double the assistance if we're going to reach the Millennium Goals, from the current 56 billion US dollars to the 100 billion US dollars. And this applies even if we deliver according to the international framework conditions. This is a significant challenge, but we believe that with our contribution to aid growth next year, we are doing a little bit from our side in this context. But we have to do more, as the government has also promised. The second, which is also important, is the reform and conversion of both international and Norwegian aid. We need a pretty big donor reform to make better use of resources. We're doing a good job of this conversion. It is anchored in previous treatments in the Grand Duchy, and is also the starting point for the reorganisation and modernisation of the development management provided by the Government, as also provided for in the budget. The fourth is that public schemes cannot deliver alone in relation to combating poverty. Private sector and voluntary action must be mobilised if we are to succeed. Also in this area there is much more to pick up. We need to be involved in attracting private sector, business, development and investing more in the poorest countries. We systematically follow this up through the follow-up to the strategy for industrial development in the south. So to the volunteer organizations, which others have been in today. All of these four fronts have to work along if we're to succeed. The new thing is that from the Norwegian side, together with some other like-minded countries, we have notified the United Nations that we are willing to report on our own contribution through a report on what is called Millennium Goal 8. We're going to do it for the first time in the summer in connection with ECOSOC in the United Nations, which is going to deal with and look at these different reports. We believe that helping to report on our policies increases our credibility, just as we expect developing countries to report what they do in relation to the Millennium Goals. So that's how we can jointly monitor the follow-up both from the north and the south. I would like briefly to touch on this budget proposal and on what we have set out to do in meeting the needs of the Storting for better information and a better overview of what results can be achieved through the work we are doing on the aid side. In the budget proposal we have now presented, we have tried to facilitate an improvement. I hope and believe that it is registered by the representatives and the committee. We believe that the budget proposal with this both enables us to make some of the results we achieve more visible, and also makes it a better governance instrument. We are not in the target of the 2004 budget, because we are now continuously improving this work. That is why we will have to spend several years before we believe that we have fully achieved goals in terms of how we want a budget proposal improved in a performance-related context. The second reason we have to focus on both policies, results and instruments is when the Government is promoting its policy communication. We are going to promote a growth message in the spring session that will just focus on what I've been about: the Millennium Goals, Norwegian Follow-up and the international transformation of development policy – what it does to us, and what it requires of us on the Norwegian side. We hope that it will be promoted at a time that will enable the Storting to deal with it before the summer, that it can be dealt with in the spring session. We believe it is important – and I record the strong desire that has been expressed here – with a debate on development policy and Norwegian aid. That is what we are meeting, and we want it to be. We should like to see a full hall here, which could already be part of such a discussion today. At least it's not on us from the Government's side. I want to mention very briefly the considerable thematic effort we are making on education. It's increasing by about 200 million. kr. in relation to this year. In particular, the emphasis will be on education for girls. This is part of the work to achieve the goal of 15 pst. of the training assistance. Several people have been involved in HIV/AIDS interventions. We're doing a new bet in this area, where we also go heavier on the treatment side. We're going to do this in collaboration with the Clinton Foundation – not channel money through it, but use that cooperation so that we can offer cheaper medicines. Similarly, we want to strengthen health services in developing countries, so that we can deliver funds in a way that does not burden them too much. The work on HIV/AIDS and combating HIV/AIDS is an effort to prevent a dimensional development disaster. If we don't do this, very much of the other thing we do will be undermined, and we won't have a chance to achieve the Millennium Goals. We also call for a follow-up to the Johannesburg Summit in the budget, and believe that we deliver here in relation to increased investment in the so-called WEHAB areas, in particular water, energy, biodiversity and agriculture. Last but not least, we are very pleased that the Stortinget has joined the Government's proposal for three new countries of cooperation. The main co-operation countries are becoming, as we have suggested, but one has joined Kenya, Madagascar and Afghanistan as new co-operation countries. Here, the real significance of recognising positive political developments in two countries with great needs, Kenya and Madagascar. That we show that we are committed to long-term cooperation with Afghanistan is a signal that this country needs, not least in these times.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e793	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e796	In its assessment of the Cancún negotiations, the Forum for Development and the Environment states that the Norwegian authorities have: ‘a totally crazy strategy and a crazy tactic.’» They accuse the Government of lacking a fundamental position by fighting for free trade for fish, but special arrangements for agriculture. They further believe that: ‘Norway could and should have given full support to developing countries in the requirement to eliminate all forms of export aid and dumping’. Does the Minister for Development think that Norwegian authorities fought the case of developing countries in Cancún, or does the Minister for Development agree with the Forum on Environment and Development that there should be a whole new debate on Norwegian positions in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e811	I have not just experienced the various Norwegian voluntary organisations, including the ForUM, as the best allies in the discussion and struggle for the rights, positions and power of developing countries in international trade negotiations. Here I would very much like them to look a little bit more at how they chose to focus the different positions. This is primarily the foreign minister's responsibility, but I will comment on what is development-relevant. We believe that in our positions we have also stressed the importance of developing countries. I think what the Foreign Minister had in mind in his speech earlier today is some of the explanation that one should not add up to a bloc assessment of what the developing countries' interests are. I think the poorest developing countries in Cancún felt that we were definitely on their side on many of their questions – both in terms of special and differentiated schemes, and in terms of market access positions – while some other countries, higher income countries and middle-income countries, did not experience the same. Here's a question of which developing countries you're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e820	I will first praise the Council of State for a very good article that fancied the theme well, a theme that the Council of State knows very well. State-to-state cooperation: I want to problematize a little bit around it. From time to time we have to cut someone out, then someone comes back, and then there's some new ones. We're reducing efforts in relation to something, and we're increasing efforts in relation to it. I think most people recognize that there are challenges associated with connecting with a country, whether it is a major co-operation country or a co-operation country. Will the Council of State agree to assess whether we can achieve a greater degree of flexibility, a greater degree of assistance and assistance, whether we choose to cooperate via the private sector, through voluntary organisations, through global fund schemes, and can reach the population directly, without the more formalised government cooperation, which often turns out to be problematic?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e830	This is an incredibly important question, and I want to put it in a slightly larger context. I believe one of the reasons why poverty develops and that the situation can deteriorate in many countries is what is often called failed states in English. There are countries where the institutions don't work, where nothing works, where you have bad managers, and in addition, the whole administrative system is crumbling up, and there is no one to provide services to the population. In such cases, poverty problems become even worse. There is never a solution to ask non-governmental organisations to do the job for the state, because they do not have the capacity to do so. To combat poverty, one must also build a state, make the state function and the state apparatus to deliver. In addition, the other institutions come in favour of both multilateral organisations and non-governmental organisations. But they can never replace the state. In the fight against terrorism, I think we have seen it more clearly than ever: where there are no states, and where there are states that are not functioning at all, where extreme movements are freer leeway, and can also destroy in a long-term context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e837	Some voluntary organisations and activist organisations are trying to put in place illegitimate debt and dictatorial debt that we should use, in order to increase the speed of debt cancellation. Now I saw that even in the Progress Party's comments the word «dictation debt» was used. Would the Minister for Development accept the use of these outlines? And did she in any way think he was in favour of achieving the goal of faster debt-to-delivery? Another example is export credit schemes. We know that approx. 20 pst. of all the liabilities in the world are linked to the export credit systems. We know that the institutions that govern these schemes are set up and linked to the purchase of goods, so that exporters do not suffer any loss. But the countries are left with debt. Does the Minister for Development consider this as being on the right track towards what might be called illegitimate debt? There is no responsibility for the exporters. Those who have become standing harmless.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e855	I can inform the Storting that we are in the final question of working on an expanded, up-to-date debt plan in relation to the Stortinge case in 1998-1999. We're working on it. There, the question of illegitimate debt will be discussed and addressed a little more thoroughly than what I have in a short reply. My assessment is that this is a concept that cannot be operated on in international debt negotiations that take place at the Paris Club and elsewhere. It's a very complex matter we're talking about here. If you're going to use this as a stencil, I can only take two examples: in the case of Saddam Hussein and the debt there, it won't be legitimate. And if we're going to have that concept, you're going to have to reorganize that debt and finance it in a magnitude that is more than any other debt to the poorest countries together. Is that a proper priority? Then the money will be taken from them and go to Iraq. South Africa is another example. Let me just say briefly: in the case of export credits, I have said that the shipping campaign is a disgrace of Norwegian history. Then you have to consider whether it falls under the term or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e864	I note that the Council of State is increasingly talking about trade in aid debates. It's okay. The problem with the trade debate is that it often becomes so general and unsound that it becomes meaningless. Now, state councils nuanced the issue of developing countries as a group, because there is a very lack of group, with different interests in different sectors. It's good that the nuance comes out. I also often hear the Minister for Aid mention trade in a way that gives the impression that freest world trade is a good thing in itself. My question is, is that a correct interpretation? And does the Minister for Development think that the poorest in the poorest part of the world are served with the freest possible world trade?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e873	The fact that I am involved in trade policy is an important reason why I am the Minister for Development and not the Minister for Aid, because this is one of the most important tools for development. There is also an important reason why I am not just talking about trade; I have always been concerned about trade policy as such. The Christian People's Party has a long tradition of being concerned about it in all foreign and development-related debates on the situation of developing countries. Having said that, I would say that I have never used the expression ‘a freest world trade’, but I think it is very problematic if the characteristic of Norwegian trade policy is to be protectionism and the exclusion of developing countries from international markets. What is important is to listen to what the developing countries themselves say, and what their demands are. I was a little concerned that there are nuances between the countries, which the Foreign Minister was also involved in his speech, and which we saw in Cancún. I don't have time to go into this, except to give an example that I think illustrates this dilemma. Kenya is a country that becomes a new partner country. It is not a MUL country, but it is a country that will thus be met with significant customs barriers from the Norwegian side. Is that a proper priority? Isn't this something that should get us – and the Center Party – to think a little bit about?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e882	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e885	Poverty, wars and conflicts are interrelated, and also the need to see conflict-building, conflict resolution, assistance, stabilisation and peacekeeping forces in a context. A unanimous committee focuses on Africa and underlines that there are several fundamental challenges that need to be addressed if poverty is to be reduced and the Millennium Goals achieved. In addition to the threats to the future of Africa posed by the HIV/AIDS epidemic, civil wars, conflicts, ethnic contradictions and despotic regimes hinder the necessary development. In 2001, Norway took the seat of the United Nations Security Council. Low-level, ambitious and results-oriented can be said to characterise the Norwegian effort and the Norwegian objective. Norway had three main objectives for the work of the Security Council: focus on the link between peace and development, the United Nations’ ability to plan and carry out peace operations and a special focus on Africa. The three objectives were closely linked. Norway had, and has, a goal of strengthening the UN's confidence-building role in Africa. This concerns both the UN Aid and Development Organisations and the work of the Security Council on conflict prevention and conflict resolution. Norway continues to play an important role in the peace negotiations between Ethiopia and Eritrea and has been central to initiating peace in Sudan. Not least, our Minister for Development has been very active in this work. As a small country, Norway has an interest in ensuring that the World Organisation strengthens its authority. This can only be done by respect for UN resolutions and the visible results of the UN's work on development, humanitarian work, refugee aid and conflict resolution. The UN's Millennium Goals manifest a global political commitment to halve the proportion of people living in extreme poverty by 2015. It is important that we succeed and that we work systematically in the fight against poverty. However, it requires a particular focus on the situation of women. Two thirds of the world's poor are women. Poverty is feminized, and the oppression and suffering of women in poor countries seems never to end. In this respect, I would like to point out that Afghanistan is now becoming a new co-operation country, and that regional allocations to Asia, among others. be linked to the co-operation countries. Assistance to Afghanistan, in addition to contributing to democracy, institution building, law and order, needs to be focused in particular on strengthening the situation of women. I myself have worked to focus on the situation of women in Afghanistan for many years. I remember sitting on a plane to England, not long after the Taliban took over power, and I read in a British newspaper about the stoning of the first woman. The description put deep traces in my mind. While the women in Afghanistan were oppressed by the cruelest, the world was silent. The only time, as far as I can remember, that the Taliban was in the Western media was when they crushed Buddha statues. The fate of women was few who cared, with the possible exception of Le Monde diplomatique. In 2001, I was in Pakistan. In the refugee camps at the Afghanistan border, women and children are literally frozen in their hearts. It was only UNHCR, that is, the United Nations refugee organization, who was inside as an aid organization. They didn't have enough money, but my respect for the UN's humanitarian efforts rose sharply during that visit. The fall of the Taliban regime was a prerequisite for women in Afghanistan to have a minimum of human dignity. Now recent reports show that there is a slow pace of progress and that the protection against violence and the strengthening of the situation of women in all areas of society must be at the heart of aid to Afghanistan. In Afghanistan, we also see the link between humanitarian aid, aid, stabilisation forces and coalition forces. Both the aid work and the work of the now NATO-led ISAF force has been, and is, depending on the protection of Operation Enduring Freedom. Norway is now heavily involved in ISAF and is currently contributing to Parliament’s support in order to ensure a stable democracy. I agree and am very pleased that there is actually a total increase that now joins Norway to participate in the ISAF force at the moment in order to accomplish this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e911	Today, when the Grand Duchy deals with the 2004 budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is also appropriate to recall the major changes that are taking place today in European and Euro-Atlantic cooperation. EU-NATO relations change character, and we see a Europeanisation of security policy. This is done through the support of NATO, Norway’s traditional safety-related anchorages. In spite of the considerable disagreement that prevailed within Europe on the handling of the Iraq issue earlier this year, we see that countries such as France, Germany and the United Kingdom are now coming together to develop an autonomous EU security and defence policy. At the meetings held during the weekend, these agreed to establish their own EU plan cell at the NATO military headquarters in Mons outside Brussels. In addition, the EU shall strengthen its own planning loss for military operations. Although the EU is now adopting a security and defence policy dimension, it is also worth noting that we do not see any militarisation of EU foreign and security policy. The EU is still primarily a civil power and what we can call a different security policy actor. It implies that the Union is an intermediary between a federal state formation and a normal international organisation. The EU Security Policy Strategy is also reflected in the new EU Strategy Paper, which was drafted by EU External Action Officer Javier Solana, earlier this year. This underlines the specific EU approach to addressing and addressing security policy challenges. In particular, the EU underlines the need to address security policy challenges through the principle of effective multilateralism. The basis for such multilateralism is a law-based international order in which international law and formalised institutions, such as the EU, are given responsibility under the United Nations’ sovereignty to deal with the challenges facing them. As Solana emphasised in a speech in Berlin on 12 November this year, EU security can only be managed if the fundamental values of the UN are respected. Today, we see that a political community is being built in Europe, which, starting next May, assumes a pan-European character. It is also democratic, as several studies from the internationally recognised ARENA programme underline. In view of the current developments, my conviction that Norway should become an EU member as quickly as possible is strengthened. The vision of the different countries should now be dead. The future of the European Union is also Norway's future. That doesn't mean we're going to replace the United States with the EU in our security policy orientation. Rather, it is my view and right that the EU's foreign and security policy should have a transatlantic dimension. Nevertheless, it is my belief that without EU membership Norway is at risk of a security policy marginalisation which I believe is harmful to the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e920	The Labour Party has created an alternative budget, where we had more money for this framework area, Framework Area 4. In the agreement that the Government Party and the Workers' Party have concluded, not everything has come into place, but within what we have managed to achieve, it is important to fight bullying, suffering and disease in the third world. GAVI is a targeted method for fighting disease. The GAVI vaccine alliance may include: contribute to the world being polio-free by 2005. But if you want to get ready to do this, Norway must also contribute more money. For this reason, in the Labour Party, we are pleased that we have had a positive impact on increasing next year's fees to the vaccine fund by 100 million. kr, and that the government party, together with the Labour Party, ensures that every year it will be increased by 100 million. kr for the next five years. This is a concrete measure and a relatively small amount. $1.5 billion for the next five years can help save a lot of lives, and that's important. There is a lot of important work to be done when it comes to human rights and democratic development. Support for the Peace Corps and support for voluntary organisations' efforts to strengthen civil society building are important. Democracy support through the political parties, contributions to free media and cultural actions and support to international voluntary organisations are very important and will be followed up in this budget. It is unlikely that it is important to secure a broad popular anchoring of Norwegian aid, and it is my particular impression that this is the case here in the country, especially among young people. That's very nice. I also want to spend some time at the Human Rights House. I know the mountains well, and there we have a house like this, which is called the Rafto House. Here the Afghanistan Committee, Amnesty International, the Peace Corps and the Rafto Foundation are gathered, as well as a host of other associations and organisations. In 2002, more than 300 events were held in the house. More than 50 school classes were inside the house, both from continuing school and from the youth school. What kind of activities are we talking about? There is education in human rights at the elementary school and in relation to higher education, cooperation with the university, trade and human rights, and provision for teachers and media. The most important thing is of course the content of what happens to activities, but the frame around the house is also important. The house is purchased, rusted up and in very good condition. But the debt has been so burdensome in recent years that too much time has gone by to keep your head above the water. Thus, many good forces gather in a labor in the West. Both the municipality of Bergen, the county council and the business community have contributed and will contribute, but it is also important that the state participates. For this reason, I am very pleased that the Workers' Party together with the Government Party and the Progress Party ask the Government to consider whether there may be a basis on which the State can contribute when it applies to the reorganisation of the residual debt. I know that there is good contact between the Rafto House and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I expect the Council of State to follow up this comment from the Committee, and I would like to confirm that. I know best about the Human Rights House in Bergen, but the work done at the Human Rights House in Oslo is of course equally important. It is important to have such houses, where the various organisations dealing with these questions can gather. Networking is also important to ensure a broad popular anchoring of the work on human rights. These two houses work together well, and they're part of the Human Rights House Network. It is unlikely that one has these houses, and that the organizations are gathered in these places both in Oslo and in Bergen. It's also important that we get the ability to work with content, but then the frame around must also be in place. Therefore, I hope that the Council of State will do what the committee has asked for, and take an initiative to get the debt paid back.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e933	In several areas where Norway contributes to the long-term development and strengthening of human rights, democracy, civil society and business, there are also unstable externalities. It is time that acute crises, worsening and difficult living conditions and hardships make the long-term development work more difficult or degrade, not least in the case of the situation in which the population is in trouble because of military conflict. Transitional assistance or the so-called CAP allocation solves the problem in some of these situations, with the strengthening of international efforts for peace-building, filling the space between humanitarian aid and longer-term development. When it's 450 million. kr goes to this budget line in 2004, illustrates the current situation. For the same reason, there may be a need for significant flexibility between short-term and long-term measures. In some such areas, the Ministry has pointed out the need to see the link between the means of assistance and, for example: Chapter 163, Emergency aid, humanitarian aid and human rights. The Middle East is a typical example of such an area, and how short-term and long-term efforts almost have to go hand in hand. In its report on the Palestinian economy of March this year, the World Bank writes that there are signs of fatigue in the international donor community. However, all the components are interdependent here, whether in terms of economic reconstruction and humanitarian aid, or the development of a stable military and political solution. This means that at least it is not the time to reduce the overall effort, if we still think it is possible to reach a political solution. A unified framework for political progress is a necessary prerequisite for further economic and social development in both Israel and Palestine. It makes it all the more important that the so-called road map of peace should succeed. In order to do so, the parties themselves as well as the Quartet and the international community need to renew and strengthen their efforts to implement the road map. In recent months, it has been clear that the parties now need to focus on the implementation of their own obligations, rather than focusing on the counterparty’s shortcomings. At the same time, it may seem increasingly clear that the international community must be able to ensure a more robust monitoring mechanism and active follow-up, if it is to succeed. In this context, it is interesting to read the document submitted in Geneva by an Israeli/Palestinian group two days ago, the so-called ‘Geneva Accords’. The group led by former Justice Minister in Israel, Yossi Beilin, and former Minister of Information of the Palestinian Administration, Yasser Abed Rabbo, is unofficial and does not represent any of the relevant governmental powers. The document provides a concrete description of how one could implement in practice a final solution for two independent, viable countries, where all of the essential issues of conflict have been addressed. Although the Israeli government in particular has taken a clear distance from the document, it is useful that the group shows in such detail that it can actually be done – if there is a real willingness to negotiate. I would like to conclude, in a word, also with regard to aid policy in general. In most major debates on Norwegian assistance during this period, I have focused on the need for a planned evaluation of both operation and achievement. In this context, I consider it appropriate to follow closely when, in several cases, transferring from project support to budget support in the beneficiary countries. Budget support has undoubtedly its positive aspects, and allows, among other things, a better overview of the impact of the overall efforts of several donors in a common response area. This method also poses obvious problems. The measurable parameters will easily become more general and imprecise than in the evaluation of projects, and a high degree of transparency will be required in the country’s financial and budgetary management in order to demonstrate the correct and targeted use of the assistance. When we know that precisely good governance, anti-corruption work and transparency are development tasks in some of the same countries, this must be seen as a significant challenge. I therefore assume that the Ministry is concerned about how to plan for a satisfactory evaluation in advance, when assistance is provided in the form of budget support. It will be of interest to the Storting whether a forthcoming communication on aid policy can also be given an account of these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e953	There has been a significant debate on trade and the WTO negotiations on the needs and requirements of developing countries. That is why I want to draw attention to the UNDP report, which is also very much taken into account in the current WTO negotiations, and it reflects the different needs of different developing countries. This is also the background for different requirements for developing countries and countries in the negotiations. Among other things, market access requirements for developing countries will not be as stringent as those for rich countries, and security clauses will be made available for the reduction of customs duties. So it's distinguishing between a country and a developing country. But when it is said here that we really cannot take the demands of developing countries so very solemnly, because they have different needs, etc., it is quite wrong anyway. And then I show that there was an alliance in Cancún under the leadership of Brazil, there also countries like China and India, representing 70 pst. of the world's population were present. They made very strict demands on the rich countries for market access, the winding-up of internal aid and, above all, the winding-up of export aid. The reactions were also very strong in that the rich countries would push forward new themes before they had come to grips with the demands made by developing countries over many years, for example. the so-called Singapore themes relating to the liberalisation of investment policy. It is clearly a subject where the rich countries will once again benefit from liberalisation. It was also one of the reasons why there was a breakdown in the negotiations, i.e. a lack of compliance, and demands on which the developing countries gathered and which were very strong during these negotiations, plus the fact that the rich countries pushed forward new areas that they were to serve at this time as well. Finally, I would like to say that I believe that these WTO negotiations will be very demanding in the future, but I am nevertheless convinced that a successful outcome can lead to a completely new era for poor countries and poor people.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e960	Bjørn Jacobsen has a speaking time of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e963	I'm going to take 5 seconds, because I'm just going to take up the proposal that's in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e968	It was fast. The representative, Bjørn Jacobsen, has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e971	It is difficult to face up to the competition with the last honourable speaker about getting short, so I won't even try that. But there are two themes that have been promoted in the debate, to which I need to make some comments. One is the debate on debt and debt, which is an important debate, and where I have noted with interest that it has entered into the Norwegian debate a new concept, namely ‘illegal debt’. Very often, similar liabilities are defined under a regime that is – to say the least – low in democracy. It's not hard to sympathize with the thinking behind this. On the other hand, it is very difficult to imagine how it should be operationalised in a way that is feasible to enforce with a minimum of consistency and tidyness. In particular, given Bjørn Jacobsen's contributions in this context, I also think it is useful and right to separate the two issues, namely, whether a country is depleted by debt and therefore has difficulty in achieving a positive development on the one hand – no matter how the debt has been settled, it is a real problem that we have to deal with – and whether the debt has been brought about through a regime with the quality of one or the other. These two issues, I think, should be kept completely apart. It will benefit the case. So a note on the debate that has gone through today's change of words, on humanitarian versus military aid, with particular reference to the situation in Iraq. I don't stop wondering about the very high profile that some of our humanitarian organisations share in the media when it comes to intervening in the political debate. I think it's at least as suspicious a role mix and potential a role conflict as the one that occurs in the border country between humanitarian activities and military activities. And this may be particularly true in the situation our country is in. Norway is a small country, where most humanitarian organisations are run administratively by recycled state secretaries. Nothing bad about recycled state secretaries, but it may not be surprising that they have some problems keeping track of their roles when they no longer participate in the active exercise of party politics, but perform completely different types of functions. The most important thing about the situation in Iraq is not, to my mind, the theoretical discussions on legal, international law definitions. It is also not the discussion of whether or not to act in uniform. The most important thing is that there is a challenge for the entire world society. Irrespective of how to judge the course of events up to today, there is a challenge for the entire world community, and especially for the United Nations, simply because the situation in Iraq is a threat, not only to the military forces in uniform, but also to the humanitarian aid organisations that are regularly designated as targets, but above all to the civilian population in Iraq. I have to say that I have a very difficult time to understand, and I have not heard a single argument in favour of, the idea that the situation in Iraq or in the area around Iraq should improve – whether it be for the civilian population or for others – by the fact that Norway and other countries that are currently making an effort there would decide to withdraw. And that's actually just the alternative we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e986	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 865]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e1002	It happens that you feel like a repeater, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e1009	Yeah, that's not nice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e1014	But when there's a new thing, you start with blank sheets and pencils. As you know, the background to our own svalbard budget is set out in Article 8 of the Svalbard Treaty, which limits the possibility of levying taxes and charges on Svalbard. At the same time, the swallow budget serves to provide a comprehensive overview of government appropriations for swallowing purposes. For many years, changing governments have had the overall aim of stressing the firm and consistent enforcement of Norwegian sovereignty on Svalbard, contributing to proper compliance with the Svalbard Treaty and monitoring compliance with the Treaty, the preservation of peace and stability in the area, the preservation of the unique wilderness nature of the area and the maintenance of a Norwegian community on the island group. This proposition, which is now being discussed by the Stortinget, contributes to the maintenance of the overall objectives of Norwegian swallowing policy. At the same time, this proposition must be seen in the light of St.meld. No 9 for 1999-2000 and Innst. S. No 196 for 1999-2000. This proposition helps the Polar Committee to continue its central role in ensuring an overall follow-up to the Svalbard Landfill Communication. In this context, it is of particular importance to point out that local democracy was introduced in 2002. The Longyearbyen local government has replaced the Svalbard Council, but in addition has gained a significantly greater responsibility than the Svalbard Council had. Longyearbyen has adopted a new organisational model, which entered into force in October 2002. This organisational model is based on the ordering/executive principle, where strategic tasks, ordering functions and the exercise of authority have been added to the local government in Longyearbyen through the local government's own organisation. As underlined in the present proposal, one of the main budgetary challenges for next year is the new helicopter lease agreement for the rental of helicopter services with effect from 1 April 2004. Both helicopters have a very advanced life-saving equipment and therefore contribute to a significant strengthening of the services on Svalbard. The new agreement involves increased costs compared to the current agreement. This is the background for proposing an increase of 11.1 million in the employment transport service. NOK 59.55 million in total. DKK for 2004. In addition, this agreement will have a full-year effect as from 2005, in order to expect an increase in costs in this area in the coming years. In addition to this large investment, which will improve the safety of the inhabitants of Svalbard, large investments are also made in the district heating system. In 2004, too, significant costs will be incurred. Total investment is about 90 million. kr. In 2003, a total of 7.1 million was allocated. kr to Longyearbyen local government for investments in the district heating network. This allocation has been proposed for 2004. The Longyearbyen city of local government has set up a plan for the progress and financing of investments. It has been assumed that investments in the district heating network will be financed by borrowing and completed during 2007. In addition, there will be costs associated with the rehabilitation of the Svalbard Church, as well as the Bjørn Island and Hopen gas stations. These will be further rehabilitated during 2004. As of 1 January 2004, the properties will be incorporated into the State Building rental scheme. The additional costs resulting from this work are estimated at approximately 1.3 million. kr. There have been some comments in the media regarding the proposal for an increase in the valance tax from 6 pst. to 8 pst. Let me stress that this is primarily an adjustment. It is not to be understood as a signal to raise the level of taxation towards the level of the mainland. As underlined in the committee position, and in line with Stortinget's own treatment of St.meld. No 9, there is no desire to increase state transfers to Svalbard beyond today's level. Of the total budget for Svalbard for 2004, slightly above 169 million. The state transfers are slightly above 119 million kroner. kr. Finally, let me refer to the increasing research and education activities at Svalbard. In recent years it has increased significantly both in scale and in quality. The University Centre of Svalbard, UNIS, is located centrally in the research activities at Svalbard. UNIS can show good results in terms of teaching, research and development of the communities in Longyearbyen. Research activity has consistently been highly assessed in the international evaluations of real subjects undertaken by the Norwegian Research Council. As underlined in the proposition, the research at UNIS assumes that Svalbard is geographically located in a high arctic area. UNIS offers, against this background, in four different fields of study: Arctic Biology, Arctic Geology, Arctic Geophysics and Arctic Technology. The study has a high international profile and therefore aims to ensure that a large proportion of students come from countries other than Norway. In this context, advanced research in the field of real science, with a special focus on arctic strokes, should therefore be a key element in the formulation of Norwegian swallowing policy in the coming years. This must be seen not least in the context of the fact that one of the most overarching objectives of Norwegian swallowing policy is to maintain the unique wilderness nature of this area. Finally, I would just like to make a brief comment on the developments that have been taking place in the community in New Ålesund under the direction of Kings Bay AS in recent years. It is a particularly pleasant and positive development that more and more research groups from other countries are establishing permanent research activities with the New Ålesund as the base. In this context, it is particularly gratifying that the Ministry of Education and Research budget has allocated 10 million. kr to the project planned by the Norwegian Polar Institute to build a new research building for marine research in New Ålesund. With a few years to come, it can be seen that in Ny-Ålesund – under Norwegian supremacy and Norwegian responsibility – there will be an international community in miniature of research groups from many countries, working together for the benefit of a common knowledge bank for the people of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e1042	Many years have passed since I worked at Svalbard, and much has changed since then. But what is important is that Norway retains the right to rule over the archipelago, and in this respect it is also very important to make people live and work there. In an area so far north, with a hostile climate, there must necessarily be positive means of maintaining the settlement and one of these means of maintaining the current level of taxation, of 6 pst. Therefore, the Progress Party strongly opposes the proposal to increase the Svalbard tax from 6 p.m. to 8 pst. The Progress Party considers it important to maintain a good activity on Svalbard. The relatively low level of taxation has been an important contribution to attracting new workers to Svalbard. An increase in the tax may also be negative in relation to future salary requirements, by requiring many employees to have the tax increase compensated for by higher wages. This, in turn, will weaken the company's profitability. The progress party is therefore in favour of the Svalbard tax being maintained at 6 pst. In the event of a failure, this is not part of our original set of numbers in our alternative budget, so that's why it's fixed. As a result, the income side is capped. 3030, item 70 is reduced by 7 million. kr, and that cap. 3035, 70 is increased by 7 million. kr. Proposal No. 1 is distributed in the hall, and it's taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e1051	The representative Christopher Stensaker has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e1054	I'm not sure about the calculation of the seven million. kr is right. In my small attempt to make an estimate, I have come to the conclusion that it must be about approx. 4.5 million. kr in difference. But it's of absolutely secondary importance. What is important to be clear is that this very modest increase in the level of Svalbard's tax was explicitly provided for in the big picture to which the Stortinget agreed a very short time ago. It was, among other things, justified by the fact that the introduction of local government in Longyearbyen leads to a not insignificant increase in expenditure. It was also justified in the common view that it should not be appropriate to increase the country’s net subsidy on Svalbard in excess of its level per year. today. I must also add that I find it very difficult to believe that some employee groups would get particularly far in wage negotiations by using as argument a modest increase like this, from 6 pst. to 8 pst. I would think that no employer would have very serious problems in rejecting this as a justification for claims for salary increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e1061	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 879]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e1069	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e1076	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Stensaker, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Bjørn Jacobsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The suggestions are included on pages 34 to 42 of the configuration. The President drew attention to the fact that Roman numeral I under proposal No. 1 of the Progress Party is distributed in the amended version of the Chamber. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e3051	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as amended under I:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e6964	During the debate, Mr Stensaker put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-03.ana.ud278e8285	There is no record.
