ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e28	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be access to a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e37	The starting point for the case we are dealing with today is a Document No. Eight proposals from the representatives of Åslaug Haga and Marit Arnstad. The Economic and Social Committee has examined this matter and we have unanimously agreed to attach the document to the minutes. A majority of the Committee has also voted in favour of a proposal for Decision II, which I feel sure they will explain themselves. The Ministry has, in writing to the Committee, a letter accompanying the matter, set out the questions raised by the Committee. I feel that they have been answered in a very reassuring way. We have good international agreements that ensure food security and labelling of origin. I would like to mention that the proposers in their proposal started with a very boring episode in which Dutch eggs were relabelled and traded as if they were Norwegian. It is clearly a lawless activity, and that, of course, is also contrary to the law we have today. Therefore, it is not primarily about amending laws and regulations, but about their enforcement. I look forward to a new food law that coordinates the laws we have, and makes the law even better to achieve what we agree on, the labelling of origin and food security. There are several laws that will be looked at in this context today, and it will provide consumers and the control apparatus with a better chance of exercising the control that we are going to have with food.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e50	There are several reasons why we in the Workers' Party support the proposal of the proposers for a national strategy for the labelling of foodstuffs of origin. We also find a good argument in letters from the Sponheim State Council to the Committee. It says: «The provisions of the day provide us with considerable protection against misleading, even if they may improve. Labelling provisions will be considered to be amended. I think it is important that we take into account consumers' wishes for better labelling of food origin. It is best that Norway, preferably in cooperation with neighbouring countries and other countries with a common view, works in international forums to ensure that such rules enter into common international standards.’ We agree. However, in order to be able to do so, Norway needs to have its own strategy on how to get its own view of food labelling. That is why we are in favour of the proposal that the SV and the Central Party are also behind it. As the representative Momyr said, proposals for a new food law are not being consulted, and this consultation document also mentions food labelling. It is quite clear that this document focuses on consumers' wishes and rights. There have also been consumer surveys, including: in the Nordic countries, which show that the precise labelling of foodstuffs, the country of origin of the product, etc., is important for consumers. It is possible to obtain a conglomerate of labelling that in turn makes it incomprehensible to consumers, and therefore a strategy is important in this context. That is why, on behalf of the Labour Party, we have supported the majority proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e62	It is positive that, through the proposal under consideration by the Stortinget, the proposers draw attention to food safety. Food security throughout the whole value chain is an important political theme in very many countries. It is a fact that most provisions regulating the relationship with safe food have been obtained as a result of processes in international forums, especially in the framework of EU cooperation, but also in other international organisations. From 1 January 1999, we were granted an extension of the EEA Agreement in the veterinary field. We got a system that reduced the possibilities of border crossing checks with a general rule on production site checks and possible random checks at the point of arrival. This has improved the conditions for the fishing industry. The scheme has worked satisfactorily. The consequences of the veterinary agreement have been duly evaluated without any deterioration in the animal or human health situation as a result of changes in control rules. Therefore, the lot of progress cannot see the intention to introduce any special Norwegian rules for the control of imported food. Continuous efforts are being made to improve the effectiveness of controls in the framework of international agreements. It should also be mentioned that the new Food Safety Authority is intended to play a central role here. Supervision will have a broad international commitment and contribute to enhanced efforts to improve food security. This is the position of the Progress Party. The requirement for the labelling of food origin is increasing. A consumer survey showed that most people want to know where the food comes from. Origin is an important information for consumers. This probably has something to do with safety, even if there is nothing to do with the safety of the labelling itself, because all food should initially be safe. With effect from 15 February of this year, the new regulation on requirements for the labelling of origin of fruit and vegetables entered into force. There is a widespread perception among Norwegian producers that when consumers know that the products are Norwegian, it will be easier to charge an additional price. Optional food labelling e.g. We've been through Matmerk for a long time. It turns out that 50 pst. by the companies, the volume of sales of products labelled ‘Good Norwegian’ is increased. One in five companies charges higher prices for labelled products and believe that labelling has affected the strategy of the companies. The Party considers that it is important to follow up the consumer's wish to improve the labelling of food of origin. Such work will deliver best results through cooperation with other countries. Here, there is a need to bring together forces in the Nordic region to maximise the impact in international forums where food safety criteria and standards are defined. In areas such as food labelling and traceability, it is important that Norway, in cooperation with others, can reconcile forces so that we can influence the legislation in a direction that is most appropriate for our citizens. Proposals refer to the theme of new instruments and more stringent penalties in case of misleading marketing. For the Progress Party, it would be natural to consider these issues in the context of the consideration by Storting of the proposal for a new food law. The Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Agriculture, has submitted a consultation proposal for a new food law on 14 February this year. The draft contains proposals on how to harmonise criminal provisions, including the need to strengthen them. It is true today that there are different criminal provisions in the 13 laws that a new food law will replace, either in whole or in part. With regard to the proposal for more frequent checks by Norwegian suppliers, it is natural that the new Food Safety Authority should play a central role. This will mean that resource-efficient supervision takes full account of the overall perspective and the overall responsibility for supervision throughout the food chain. There is hardly any place where food is safer than in Norway and the Nordic countries. We have a common interest in continuing this distinction. It is also important that consumers have an influence on the formulation of food policy. The government's work in this area seems reasonable and appropriate from the point of view of the Progress Party and has our support per year. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e85	Today, SV is also behind the majority voting. The majority would like us to develop an offensive national strategy for the labelling of food origin. Safe food is for me about several things. It's about getting enough food for those who don't have enough food today, it's about producing the food in such a way that it's harmless to eat, and it's about producing it in such a way that we can also produce enough food in 20-30 years and even longer in time. Norwegian consumers have become increasingly demanding. We are now living at a time when chefs have become celebrities, and there are more food programs than music programs on TV. Cooking books sell more than novels. And consumers who have gained such awareness will make strict demands on the food to be purchased in the future. I know it myself. I want to use my influence as a consumer, use my power to promote the kind of food production I think is most sustainable, most environmentally friendly, and that gives the quality I think it is reasonable to expect from food products. Throughout Europe, we have seen that this trend has become stronger and stronger in the last five years. Consumer power has moved stones a few years ago, we did not think it was possible to move — not least consumers in Europe, who clearly said no to using genetically engineered food. It was a massive action, in which the vast majority of consumers just said, "We haven't asked for this." We don't want this on our dining tables. The monitoring of Norwegian food as it is today is not satisfactory. But I am very pleased with the progress we see in getting one food surveillance, and that we are going to get a new food law. I have belonged to a movement that has for a long time raised questions related to the control of food. We are still struggling with e.g. the control of residues of sprays in vegetables. At the moment we discover that a party that has entered the Norwegian market contains too many residues of sprays, yes, they are the vegetables and that fruit already eaten by Norwegian consumers because we are unable to test fast enough or have not had enough technology. It was like that a few years ago. Now we have the technology, but we haven't been willing to set aside enough resources to use methods that allow us to reveal this before – until it reaches consumers. There are many questions that will come to discussion when we get the new food law. What's safe? What level of security are we going to put ourselves on? What are the new, major challenges related to foodborne diseases and introduced species? These are challenges that in other countries are reaching higher levels on the political agenda than they have done in Norway to date. In many ways, we can be happy about it because we've been spared some of the worst animal diseases, and we've been spared some of the worst foodborne diseases because we've had a relatively strict control. Finally, I would like to say that a strategy for the labelling of food of origin is not just consumer policy. Consumer policy is also important, but most importantly, and above all, is the strategy that enables us to increase the value creation of Norwegian agriculture. And increased value creation in Norwegian agriculture, we need that hurt! Origination marking will increase the willingness to pay. It can also help to promote quality. I want to know where the cheese I buy comes from. When I travel on vacation, I make sure to get a local speciality, which they are good for right where I am visiting. There, I think, we have a great potential in Norway. We've always been so lucky – I've been allowed to travel around and visit some of those who run farms and farm food – who want to bet. They deserve a national strategy for the labelling of origin. I also hope that the majority in this Chamber will come back with suggestions on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e107	In Document No: 8:28 propose to the magnificent representatives Marit Arnstad and Åslaug Haga better control over food and clear labelling of the country of origin. We have a comprehensive legislation on food with health, quality and honesty requirements under the three food departments of the Ministry of Fisheries, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture. In the past, the development of food legislation was mainly a national issue. Each country had great freedom. This was also true of Norway. The image has changed. Norway has concluded international agreements — including on food. International standards related to the agreements become more binding. It limits our freedom of action, but at the same time makes us aware of the rules in the countries with which we trade food. The WTO agreement has increased the importance of Codex Alimentarius standards. The EEA Agreement largely harmonises Norwegian legislation in the field of food with that of the EU. Developments have led to increased requirements for Norwegian food production and trade. New EU legislation is one of the driving forces behind the reforms we are now undertaking in Norway. In the EU, new common rules on feed and food control are currently being developed. The rules provide for control provisions for the same area as the EU Food Law. The rules will form the main basis for future Norwegian control provisions. Codex Alimentarius, as mentioned, has also established standards for food labelling. Within the EEA, the labelling of food is generally regulated by the so-called ‘label’ Directive. Norway’s and EU labelling legislation was almost identical even before the EEA Agreement – precisely because both were based on Codex Alimentarius’ general labelling standards. Norwegian legislation lays down general provisions in the so-called ‘marking’ regulation. The Labelling Regulation provides general requirements, inter alia: on origin marking and misleading. We recently added a requirement to indicate the name and country of origin of fresh fruit, berries, vegetables and potatoes offered unpacked to the final consumer. Furthermore, there are specific provisions for the labelling of foods in a number of regulations. Some of the schemes are mandatory; others are voluntary in order to increase value creation. I refer to Regulation (EC) No 28 March 2001 on the labelling of fresh beef and veal origin and Regulation (EC) No 5 July 2002 on the protection of designations of origin, geographical indications and designations of traditional special character for agricultural food. The last scheme is now extended to fish and fish products. The Government aims at leading Norway in the world on marine food traceability systems. Although the current rules are comprehensive, we know that many will have even better labelling. We take into account consumers' wishes, including: on better labelling of origin. This is best achieved by the fact that Norway, together with other countries with the same view, works in international forums to include such rules in international standards. Codex Alimentarius discusses extending the country of origin labelling requirements. So far, the Norwegian authorities have supported this. But there are still discussions. Confident origin marking requires good traceability systems. These must work at all stages of the food chain and function as equivalent in all countries from which feed, raw materials and ready-to-eat foods come. A comprehensive system of supervision is also required. Norwegian producers can make such arrangements for Norwegian-produced food – which we have provided through new branding schemes. I consider it appropriate to point out that the case referred to in the background to the proposal – eggs from the Netherlands that were marked as Norwegian – is contrary to the legislation in force, as the rapporteur also stated. This shows the need for compliance with the rules, more than the need for new rules. The establishment of the Food Safety Authority from 1 January 2004 will provide more effective control of food and feed as well as domestically produced and exported and imported. Draft new food law is now out for consultation. It shall replace a number of applicable laws. The government aims to present the proposition to the Storting during the spring. I am very concerned that the reforms should lead to a coherent and modern regulatory framework and that the new food surveillance should provide a basis for more targeted and effective control. Citizens shall be sure that the actors in the food chain fulfil their obligations. Let me also add, bearing in mind the proposal that has been put forward here today: Never has it been more intense to follow up both the labelling and regulation of safe food than what is done in the government apparatus today, both in international forums – and all that is associated with the conversion of food supervision and food law – and as part of the general food policy, because it is clearly also a nutrition strategy. It was this government that put forward proposals for a legislation on a national origin labelling scheme. This has never been done before – other countries have had it for decades. So the government has a significant strategy in this area. I am recording that there are people in Stortinget who believe we need it now. It is a significant national strategy for the Government to strengthen labelling, and we have been doing so for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e141	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e144	It is reassuring to hear from our Minister of Agriculture that this field is being worked widely, and it is also my personal impression that this is how it is happening. A proper approach here can also contribute to increasing the competitiveness of Norwegian agricultural products. But my question doesn't matter. It concerns the labelling of origin introduced in Norway on 15 February in the form of a prescription for fruit and vegetables. It requires not only labelling in relation to the country of origin but also, for some products, such as apples, pears, plums, strawberries and cherries, the variety it is. This is in line with what consumers want, which has also been discussed here by many. Origin marking is considered positive. However, after this regulation was introduced, some have carried out investigations in the shops, including: journalists, and it turns out that some of the employees do not know about this legislation, and it is not followed up. Now it's reasonable that it takes some time to incorporate a new system, but all of us here in the hall think it's very important that this is not a paper regulation. So my question to the Council of State is: Will you now follow this up on a continuous basis, so that you can see that the shops are conscious of their responsibilities and that consumers are fully aware of the origin of fruits and vegetables in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e153	Let me first say that I agree that it is good that we now have a code of national origin marking in Norway – regions and local districts can develop specificities and get protection for the use of that origin. There's a lot of this that has built up French agriculture, which we know has some of the most exciting world. It's a very good system that becomes important also as part of a business strategy. I share the view – and, let's say, the concern – that the legislation we put in place recently on labelling everything in the green sector, fruit and berries needs to be taken even more seriously in the shops. Now it takes some time for people to learn this – I was at last at a conference yesterday where the manufacturers were concerned that the shops would be better off doing this. The shops say that they are now doing what they can to train their staff and find ways to do this. In some places I record that it is very good, in other places there is a need to get better. We're going to be better ahead of the authorities, not least when we get the new uniform food surveillance to follow up these brandings in the shops. I think, however, in general, there is a very willful way in the shops to comply with these rules. I actually think it might be said to be promotional to give customers more information about what the products represent, both country of origin, varieties, etc. We see it partly already when it comes to potatoes. We are developing a number of more exciting potato markets in Norway, when we look at what has happened in the last six months, by providing information on varieties, the background of the varieties, etc. and the different qualities of the varieties supplied to consumers. So yes, we're going to follow up from the authorities. We are going to have contact with the store chains and make sure they comply with this. It is also possible to call on consumers to be impatient in their own shops and to inform the staff that they would like to receive the legal information they are actually entitled to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e162	I think there are many of us who have great expectations for the new food agency. Many European countries, including the EU, have been given new food surveillance in recent years, and one of the discussions both in the EU and in many individual countries has been on how to ensure maximum professional independence in these inspections. How are we to ensure that political interests and business interests are not governed and that consumers have confidence in the professional advice to be provided by supervision? We may not have had that debate to the same extent in Norway. I know that it is up to the Government itself to organise its supervision, but I will still be given the curiosity to ask the Council of State: Is it right that the Norwegian Food Authority should be under a Ministry of Food, or should it be under an independent department? And what action, if any, has the Governments intend to take to ensure that the new Food Safety Authority will operate professionally independently of business interests and other political interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e170	Let me start by saying that the representative Sørensen addresses a central question that it is important to be open and discuss also in Norway. We've had that discussion. The start of work on the model we have chosen to organise the Food Authority in Norway was done by the government of Stoltenberg and is based on the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Fisheries have important operational tasks. Food surveillance is administratively and formally subject to the Ministry of Agriculture, while the Scientific Committee, which determines limit values, legislation and key issues, paragraphs and legislation under the new food law to be complied with in practice, is under the Ministry of Health. This is precisely to safeguard the interests of the representative here. I would like to take the opportunity to express that a one-sided view of the Ministry of Agriculture as a Ministry of Agriculture does not seem to me to capture the reality entirely. It has, for example, At all times — at least for a very long time — a department that has had the administrative responsibility for all our official veterinary services, and jams have had to make important decisions that have not been in the interests of the industry when one has to travel around and close down because disease has made it necessary. Of course, professional integrity is also involved in these issues. I believe that not only the citizen of formal independence – the Scientific Committee will be committed to the agricultural industry – but also the practical knowledge of following food production from soil and fjord, for the Ministry of Fisheries, until we buy the food, I think it is quite essential that we have a good food supervision that also has a practical view of the very complicated context that is throughout this food chain.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e177	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2445]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e195	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e202	The use of DNA testing is an important tool for resolving criminal cases. In particular, this concerns issues relating to various forms of violence, sexual law offences and murder. Some time back, we got a concrete proof of this. A man agreed against the Oslo police to take DNA tests. The test showed that he had not committed the crime for which the police had then targeted him, but because his DNA profile was checked against the police's DNA registry, he was found guilty of a rape committed a long time in advance. During the investigation of the rape crime, DNA evidence had been found, but never any perpetrator who matched it. The example shows how important it is that the police have the ability to obtain DNA tests and control them against previously collected tests. Section 157 of the Criminal Procedure Act gives you wide access to take DNA samples in criminal matters. Samples may be taken by the person suspected of having committed an act which, under the law, may result in a penalty for freedom when this is presumed to be of importance for the purposes of the case and does not appear to be a disproportionate act. Upon the written consent of the suspect, the DNA test may be carried out regardless of whether there is a cause for suspicion. The Justice Committee believes that today's access to DNA testing in criminal matters is relatively wide. The police have access to DNA profiles. The identity register can record profiles of persons convicted of various sexual offences, crimes of violence and crimes of general concern. This is the result of Section 160a of the Criminal Procedures Act and the prosecution instructions. However, a working group set up by the Advocate General has proposed to extend access to the registration of DNA profiles. An overall justice policy is in principle in favour of this proposal and is in line with the rapid assessment by the Ministry of Justice of whether such an extension should be implemented. However, we will await the Department's recommendation before we take a final position on enlargement. It is very important that the police record DNA profiles to the extent permitted by law. Feedbacks may indicate that this is not always the case today. A wide-ranging register of DNA profiles could contribute to the conviction of several offenders. It is important for the Minister of Justice to ensure that the police follow up on DNA registration in the cases where such tests should or should be taken. It is very gratifying that the Ministry of Justice has signalled a review of the relevant rules of the prosecution instructions for the purpose of increased access to searches in DNA registers. In order to clarify as many criminal cases as possible, it is important that the police can check their DNA test against all DNA samples in the track record, and not just the DNA trace(s) in the case being investigated in relation to. A clear example of this is the matter I referred to in the introduction. I look forward to the ministry's feedback to the Stortinget on what concrete changes are being made to the prosecution instructions to ensure that the police are given a good opportunity to use DNA records in an appropriate way to resolve criminal cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e225	In several cases, DNA traces and evidence are becoming increasingly important, both to check people out and possibly to get people checked into things. It would be unfortunate if a person was sitting on information that could solve matters but could not avail himself of this possibility because different rules make this more difficult than necessary. It is important for me, as the proposer, to point out that this is a matter of identification and not a survey of heredity and its publication. It can be substantially equated with fingerprints and the way in which it is identified. We are pleased that both a joint committee and the Government are concerned about these questions. That's why we're meeting the work the Government is doing in this area. It is also in this context that an overall committee wants feedback to the Storting on the Government's conclusions in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e234	The right to take a DNA test in a criminal case is clear. I have not received any signals indicating that this access is too snowy. I note that the Justice Committee also believes that access to DNA testing in criminal matters is sufficiently wide. It is also a relative when it comes to accessing DNA profiles. However, a working group set up by the Advocate General to assess the investigation into killer cases by an unknown perpetrator has proposed extending access to DNA profiles. The report of the working party has been at the hearing of the prosecution authority. I want to await the Riksadvokat's assessment of the question before I decide whether access to the registration of DNA profiles should be extended. I have noticed that the Judicial Committee awaits the Department's assessment before taking a final position, but that the Committee is favourably disposed to such an extension. There may also be reason to look at the rules on searches in the DNA registry. In particular, the prosecution instructions, § 11a-4, may seem to set a narrow framework for searches in the track record to investigate whether a person with a known identity suspected of criminal offences has also committed other criminal offences. The Ministry of Justice will consider these rules in detail and, where appropriate, make the necessary changes to the prosecution instructions. I have noticed that the Justice Committee is meeting that the Ministry is giving feedback to the Stortingen on this work, and that will, of course, happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e243	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2445]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e259	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e266	It is a unanimous committee that supports the proposal of the Progress Party to introduce simplified submissions as a criminal reaction to disorder and other perpetrators of simple incidents. The police have been through extensive migration processes in connection with police reform in the last few years. One of the objectives of the reform is to make more policemen available to help the public. The police shall spend as little time as possible on unnecessary paperwork so that they can do what is their job, namely to prevent and combat crime. The proposal is justified by the fact that police officers today spend a great deal of time preparing the necessary documents to enable the prosecution authority to bring the matter before the courts or to refer the matter to the courts. This applies to typical disorder of order – or as suggested by the proposers in their proposal, ‘typical disorder of order with uncomplicated course of events’. Through an on-site system of simplified presentations, there will be more effective patrol time out there among the audience and less administration. The police then avoid having to go to the station to write a report, and rather get the opportunity to respond to several problems of order. For the Committee, it is important to be able to assess measures that can help increase the operational police service. This is a good example of how we can use police resources more effectively. During March, a sample working on investigating alternatives to punishment in response to crime will issue its investigation. The sample shall identify the types of cases which may be relevant for decision with simplified submissions. The proposals in this case will thus be met by the Government submitting to the Stortinget proposals to introduce simplified submissions as criminal law decisions for the offences which it considers appropriate for such a decision after its investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e281	If anyone in this room against assumption would think that this means that the Progress Party is becoming soft – to use such a term – is not that purpose. The aim is to contribute to a more sensible use of the resources available to the police. As members of the Justice Committee, we get feedback on how the police feel that everyday life is, and what unfortunately seems to be going on is that they feel like they're not doing what they actually want to do. We hope and believe that this proposal can help make things simpler and more sensible. Then I must be allowed to give tribute to the rapporteur on the matter, who has assembled an otherwise conflicting committee to a solution that I eagerly look forward to the outcome of when the Government will follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e288	In the final report of the ‘Project Speeding Up Criminal Procedures — Working Group 1’, the Working Party recommended that more types of offences should be determined by a simplified proposal and that other than police officers should be able to issue the proposal. The Sanctions Committee, chaired by Assistant Attorney General Hans-Petter years, was appointed at kgl. Resolution of 26 January 2001 to explore alternatives to punishment in response to crime. The committee was specifically asked to consider in greater detail the questions of simplified presentation raised by the working group and to assess whether general rules should be laid down in the Criminal Procedures Act on simplified submissions. The Sanctions Committee is expected to make its investigation this spring. The investigation will then be sent to the hearing. Against this background, I believe that the rules on simplified submissions should not be changed until the Sanctions Committee has issued its investigation and the consultation of the investigation has been completed. I have noted that the Justice Committee has nothing to say about such a procedure, and I can also note – in a rewriting – that bending from the bottom and bending from the top met at the same time: that energy from the Committee and energy from the Government and energy from the entire investigation group met at the same moment and has the agreed desire to exempt the police from work that is unnecessary, let them give priority to important work and make life easier, and thus also make it easier to catch more criminals!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e297	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2445]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e313	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to five minutes to each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e322	Today we are dealing with a Document No. 8 proposals from the Centre Party to extend the period of transparency in its own directory under the Transparency Act by one year. The Committee agrees that the follow-up to the Transparency Act was dealt with at the beginning of the budget. S. No 4 for 2002–03, including the question of a possible extension of the law. The Committee refers to the comments made by the respective parties in this respect. So it's a rematch we're dealing with right now. We had a debate on this in the context of the budgetary position and, as in the budgetary position, the Committee was divided. A majority, consisting of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, oppose the proposed extension and reject the proposal. Nothing new has happened that would allow the deadline to be extended. The reasons for the proposal refer to the fact that, when the Stortinget examined the report of the Lund Commission, the Government was asked to make proposals for the law on temporary transparency of police records and archives and to propose rules on compensation. This Transparency Act was adopted in 1999 and the deadline for requesting transparency expired on 31 December 2002. The proposers point out that we have now learned that thousands of applications were received immediately before the deadline. The proposalers thus conclude that the deadline must be extended by one year. The majority conclusion is the exact opposite. There were more than 12,000 applications to see the folder say, it will take at least two years to process all the applications. The Ministry has run a conscious and active information campaign, where it was announced when the deadline for transparency expired. The fact that many applied just before the deadline expired shows that this campaign has worked. In addition, it was clarified that applications that came in a few days after the deadline were to be seen liberally. In the opinion of the majority, this means that those who have had a desire to find out what might have been in a folder have had plenty of time to decide if they would seek transparency. On this basis, the majority proposes that the proposal of the Central Party be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e337	It is a counter-fight on this issue – there I agree with the rapporteur – given that we are dealing with it in the context of the budget. The Labour Party has had no reason to change its position since then, and in this way I welcome the rematch, primarily to get the opportunity to ask what is the reason why you will not admit additional time compared to those who would like to see their folders. The scenarios can be at least two: we are facing a good number of people who will still have insight. This is a process of maturation, we believe. We've seen more groups, together, among other things, that are still on the path in relation to this question, and also others. But to the extent that it should not be so that there were many, the reality of the law would not have much consistency with the authorities, all the time actually spent working with many applications this year. The constant refusal to grant such an extension of the deadline only creates in itself a basis for asking: What is it doing – and especially when we know that the Ministry of Justice is led by a Left Council of State – that in this case one actually chooses to do what has been accused in many other contexts of the party I represent, the Workers' Party, for, namely, – erroneously – almost to cultivate a culture of obscurity and cultivate a culture of surveillance. What makes you think you can't go along with this now, when we see that there's a need out there? And if there's no need out there, then it wouldn't be of particular importance to give this right anyway. So in this debate I think it's time for us to know what the reason for this is. Because what's the essence of the whole thing is that in Norway we've been through a very good process in relation to what's been the aftermath of the Lund Commission's work, and it shouldn't be at odds with formalistic justifications in order to be able to get a good rounding of a reasonably boring chapter in Norwegian history.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e344	SV fully supports the proposal of the representatives of Åslaug Haga and Change Sørestad to reintroduce the temporary law on the right of access to surveillance files until 31 December 2003. Together with the Workers’ Party in the current year’s budget setting, SV proposed that this law be extended. For SV, the transparency law means a lot. We have many members who have experienced how the surveillance police have illegally monitored them, we have members who have had reduced opportunities and reduced quality of life because their political commitment to a better world was seen as a threat to the national security. People in Norway felt that marriages were asked to state each other, that it was impossible to get work, that friends they prided on, in fact stood on the so-called police informants – and that the reason for this was a legitimate and legitimate political stand and commitment. SV, the Central Party and the Workers' Party want the Transparency Act to be reintroduced until 31 December of this year, i.e. for an additional year. We don't get a majority for this, which we regret. Just before the deadline of 31 December last year, thousands of applications were submitted to the Transparency Committee. As individuals have been given an overview of what is in their folders and this has become known, it has become apparent that more and more people have felt the need to check whether they have folders on them, they too, and if so, what is the content of these folders. It cannot be excluded that information that emerges from the future transparency of directories may lead to more individuals and new groups wanting to check their folders. As the proposers point out, the women’s movement and the Sami population are examples of groups that have become aware of late that they may have been subjected to surveillance. Nor can we exclude that someone has not been aware that the deadline for asking for access expired on 1 January. Since the Transparency Committee will be operational for a relatively long time in the future, and there are many good reasons why the deadline should be extended by one year, we believe it is a great pity that there will not be a majority in favour of the proposal by the representatives of Haga and Skreisestad, a proposal that has also been promoted by the SV and the Workers' Party in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e353	The centre party believes it is most relevant that the Storting should re-examine whether the temporary law on the right of access to the police's records should be re-introduced. We support the proposal put forward by the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party in the context of the budgetary position, but we do believe that the need for an extension of the law was reinforced after the budget position had been finalised by the Stortinget. Experience both before and during December 2002 suggests that many of the applications that the Transparency Selection is about to be examined came just before the deadline expired and that, as several have also been given the possibility of transparency, the need for others to ask questions about whether they also had a directory was reinforced. This was the case, for example. People who had been engaged in women's affairs, and that was the case with the Sami people as a group. I thought we were going to come together, his wish at this point in the meeting. If it had been the case that all the applications had now been processed, I could have more understanding of the plurality's cash rejection. But when it is now that there is every reason to believe that the Transparency Committee will have work for nearly two years, there would be no practical obstacles to introducing this temporary promise again. On the contrary, it should involve insurance at all costs so that those who would ask for transparency were given a practical opportunity to do so. We think the Labour Party and SV have said this very well in the Committee's position, where they have pointed out that individuals have the possibility of complaining about the EOS selection if they feel illegally monitored, but it is not a system that is as good as the one that was in the Transparency Act. In fact, we are quite incomprehensible that the majority of people could not take into account the experience from the end of 2002 and come to this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e365	Knut Storberget gets the word out of the way to make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e368	I then refer to the proposal to which the Workers' Party is a part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e373	The representative Knut Storberget has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e376	Provisional law on limited transparency of surveillance police archives and registers, the Transparency Act, entered into force on 1 January 2000. Following the entry into force of the Transparency Act, information on the access regime was published in all national newspapers. This happened on 1 February 2000. In addition, 45 000 information leaflets on the transparency mechanism were distributed to all police districts and municipal libraries, as well as to several Norwegian embassies and consulates. The transparency regime was also mentioned several times, including: in national newspapers, television and radio. The deadline for applying for transparency was 31 December 2002. Information on the end date of the application for transparency was between 7 and 8. It was published in all the daily newspapers of the country on November 2002. The notice was translated into Sami and distributed in approx. 2 000 copies to Sami communities, local county offices, police districts and municipal main libraries in the three northernmost counties. A telephone contact was also established for Sami-speaking people under the direction of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. As you know, the Stortinget decided in the context of the 2003 State Budget that the Transparency Act should not be extended. I am pleased with this. In my opinion, through the transparency mechanism, the Norwegian State has shown great willingness and ability to settle for old injustices. The assumption was that the Transparency Act would apply for a period of three years. The transparency period is over and it should now be possible to set the end line. We have had an almost unique system of transparency in registered information, and we have an independent sample with the corresponding secretariat that assesses the requests for transparency and compensation. I refer to and would like to stress that the Storting through the EOS Committee still has a permanent control system for the EOS services regardless of the Government and services themselves. The selection shall include, inter alia: regularly monitor the services and investigate complaints from individuals and organisations. The fact that more than 12 000 applications have now been received shows that the Ministry has made good progress in its information effort. I would like to add from the Spokesman's Chair that I have previously stated that, through the final work of the Transparency Secretariat, information is available, among other things. on the Sami environments, after this work has been completed, I will initiate that historians can view this in the same way as a government-run historian's work carried out through Norwegian monitoring registers from 1914 to 1997, i.e. the history of Berg and Eriksen. It is a business that I have said before that it may be relevant to take up after the Transparency Committee has been completed, and look at different aspects of the period covered by the work of the Lund Commission, which has also resulted in the Stortinget establishing the EOS Committee, which I see as a very important legal certainty mechanism, but also for the control of an important service and guarantee for its citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e388	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2445]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e404	This case is based on the ongoing negotiations between the EU and South Korea on fair and transparent conditions of competition for the shipbuilding industry in the EU and South Korea. It is a question of imposing a temporary contract-related aid of a maximum of 6 pst. for container ships, product and chemical ships until 31 March 2004, or until one month after the notification by the Commission in the Official Journal of the European Communities that the WTO case has led to a solution, or has been suspended because the Community considers the approved protocol to be fully implemented. Some words about the market situation of the yards. Norwegian shipyards compete in an international market and are faced with major challenges and transformations in order to cope in the future. We know that the traditional markets have shrunk, and the industry, which is also very vulnerable, needs to adapt to this new market situation. This is done, and I am impressed by how the yards have proved competitive over time, despite high compensation of employees. This was underlined by the Mure bench during his visit to the Ulstein Workshop Association last week. The yards accumulate more in clusters in areas where there are several similar establishments, and set more in niches, while at the same time operating brand construction. A high level of Norwegian costs, a high level of interest rates and a high price of crowns combined with a dried-up market make the situation difficult for many shipyards. However, I have come to understand that there is also significant overcapacity in shipbuilding in the world, combined with the fact that some countries have some obvious protectionist legislation. This is a tough market situation in itself, in addition to the fact that the yards need to organise themselves so that they can continue to live up to the fluctuations in the market. You have to be flexible to meet the future. Rosenberg yard is a randomly chosen example of a yard that is effective. They have had a shift towards new types of tasks and in this context have shown that they are both competitive and attractive. The challenge for this yard is that their traditional market has become too small. There are tough times in general for business, including for the publishing industry. Looking at the challenges of the shipyards over time, they are in fierce competition with Japanese shipyards, Chinese shipyards and Eastern European shipyards in their time. The decline of Norwegian yards has been predicted up to several times, but they have shown a stability and have had a product and a product development that stands in international competition over time. Finally, a few words about framework conditions. It is important for this industry which operates in an international market, for politicians and authorities to play on the basis of framework conditions and contractual terms. In order to ensure a level playing field between the shipbuilding industry in Norway and the shipbuilding industry in the competitor countries of the EU, the Government proposes the introduction of a limited yard support system for container ships, product and chemical tankers of up to 6 pst. from 15 March 2003 to 31 March 2004, following the pattern of the system currently open in the EU. This will have a budgetary impact on the 2003 state budget of 300 million. kr. I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e425	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 2446]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e433	We then go to voting on case No. 1 to 8 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e440	In the course of the debate, 12 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Sylvia Brustad, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Promise Party, No. 3, by Sylvia Brustad, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Central Party proposal No. 4, by Sylvia Brustad on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposals No. 5-8, by Sylvia Brustad, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 9 and 10, by Mr Voksdal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 11, by Ingvild Vaggen Malvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 12, from Sylvia Brustad on behalf of the Energy and Environment Committee Proposals Nos. 1 to 11 is included in the setting, while points. 12 is distributed in the hall. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish in the 2004 budget a permanent mechanism administered by Enova, in line with the need for support to households for energy conversion and the construction of a sustainable market for waterborne heat and new renewable energy sources.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e481	Proposals Nos. 9 and 10, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend the main pipelines of gas into a public authority and, through a state company, carry out assessments, investigations and financing of the construction of such gas infrastructure.The company is initially administered 5 billion. kronor in equity.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to proceed quickly with a case for the Storting with the following:2. Measures to ensure the construction of gas power plants for granted concessions.3. Facilitate the conditions for granting concessions for the construction of gas power plants elsewhere in Norway.4. Ensure that all existing concessions and new applications for the construction of gas power plants are not subject to any special demand for CO2 or costs for the construction of CO2 management plants before such requirements are also imposed in Europe.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e515	Proposals Nos. 6, 7 and 8, from the Workers' Party, is taken up for voting. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to put in place significant support schemes for gas power plants with CO2 handling equivalent to the reimbursement of the full electricity charge at 2002 level.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to continue, expand and initiate new gas-bus projects. In an introduction phase, investment aid must be granted for the purchase of buses and filling stations. Gas buses shall be exempted from the CO2 charge.’» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a major national hydrogen programme and contributes to the development of a hydrogen filling station network.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e542	Proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the President will come back. Proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up an action plan for electrification of the socket as an important contribution to achieving our climate commitments.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e559	Proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that ferries replacing conventional ferries for ferries operated by natural gas are provided with financial support for this purpose and significantly longer concession periods for the routes concerned.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e574	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that gas power in Norway has the same framework conditions as in other EEA countries.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e589	Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a state-owned innovation company to develop technologies for the environmentally friendly use of natural gas for energy purposes, for petrochemistry and for the use of hydrogen as an energy carrier. The company is added to Grenland and established from 1 January 2004 and is provided with significant equity.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e604	Proposal No. 12, from the Committee on Energy and the Environment, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a competence centre for end-user technology in the Haugaland, Rogaland, by 1 January 2004, and the assessment of responsibilities between the Centre and the Directorate for Fire and Explosive Protection, DBE, etc. security and emergency facilities related to domestic use and transport of gas. The Centre shall otherwise be responsible for the information, advice, training and practical application of gas to the end-user.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e647	There is an alternative proposal, No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a State investment company, which is responsible for participating with other investors in long-term investments in natural gas infrastructure. The company will be administered in the first round of 3 billion. kronor in equity.» The Progress Party has announced subsidized support for the proposal. Alternatively, between the Committee's suspension of III and the proposal of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e667	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e674	The president records that there are several people who have voted incorrectly, and we get voters again.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e778	The President expects the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e827	During the debate Knut Storberget has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to reintroduce the provisional law on the right of access to police files until 31 December 2003.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-2.ana.ud1975e930	There is no record.
