ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e28	The representative of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e31	On behalf of Hallgeir H. Langeland, Åsa Elvik, Inge Ryan and myself, I would like to make proposals that, in order to reduce the country's overall electricity consumption, energy efficiency requirements are imposed on end-user technologies such as electrical appliances, machinery and equipment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e36	The representative of Arne Sortevik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e39	I'll discuss another theme. On behalf of the representative Ursula Evje and myself, I propose to conduct a referendum in which the question of a possible distinction between state and church is settled.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e46	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e69	On Monday the Storting received a notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following will meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik Council Kristin Krohn Devold The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e85	I have a question for the Prime Minister. The UN has been a cornerstone of Norwegian foreign and security policy throughout the post-war period. We have wanted to strengthen the role of the United Nations and to make sure that the use of power is to be internationally anchored in the United Nations bodies, in the UN Security Council. Now there are many concerns about a new war in Iraq. That is why it is important that we clearly warn against military action against Iraq without anchor in the Security Council, and it is important that we make it clear that Iraq needs to cooperate and that the weapons inspectors get their job done. At the same time, Norway needs to make an independent assessment of the material found by weapons inspectors and what we believe the UN should do and adopt. My question to the Prime Minister is: What is Norway's assessment so far of the information and reports provided by the weapons inspectors to the UN?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e94	Let me first make it clear from what the leader of the Workers' Party now said, that it seems that we are fully in line with how this matter should be handled. We agree on the importance of the UN and that any military action must be enshrined in international law and in decisions of the Security Council. Unfortunately, not everyone in the debate has this clear position that Stoltenberg has now expressed, someone seems to pre-conclusion without worrying about the UN treatment. It will, in my view, increase the risk of war. We are pleased that the Workers' Party in this way is fully in line with the Government. We also agree, and we have stated that Norway must, of course, reach an independent conclusion after treatment by the UN Security Council. But doing so now, will partly ease the pressure on Saddam Hussein, so he can see himself free to develop weapons of mass destruction, and partly it will of course legitimize that other countries, like the United States, also don't care about the UN. In my view, it will increase the risk of war, and therefore it is an active, autonomous Norwegian policy that we follow the UN track. As far as the report of the inspectors is concerned, as far as Stoltenberg is concerned, it is a mixture of good and bad. Iraq has cooperated in the process and to be able to see the sites and carry out the inspections requested by the inspectors. But unfortunately Iraq has not cooperated in providing answers to and documenting important issues related to weapons of mass destruction. It's e.g. unclear how it is in the case of chemical weapons and the production and use of nerve gas. Unfortunately, biological weapons and 8500 litres of anthrax are unclear. Unfortunately, there are also uncertainties as to Iraq's stock of rockets, both in the case of SCUD rockets, and that they have probably tested two new rocket types beyond the permitted limit of 150 km.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e103	I thank you for your answer. It is absolutely right that the Workers' Party agrees with the Government that it is important that we base international law, and that we strengthen and build upon the work the United Nations is doing. It is also important that we try to maintain the broad consensus in the defence and security policy that has traditionally been in Norway. We were critical and we thought that the government hesitated long before it was ready on the question of whether a new treatment was needed in the Security Council, a new resolution. It took time before the government was ready to answer that question. We also believed that the government hesitated long before the United States was clearly warned against unilateral military operations. Now we believe that the position is clearer, and we are pleased about it. It also contributes to a necessary consensus. It is true that there is no time to conclude, but it is also important that the foreign policy apparatus, the Norwegian authorities, process the existing material in order to make the final independent assessment at a time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e112	Of course it's done. We work unabated with what we get from information and material both from the United Nations and from other countries, and on that basis and on the basis of a UN treatment, we want to take an independent position, of course in consultations with the Stortinget. I do not agree that we have been lingering for a long time. New treatment and decisions in the Security Council have been our attitude all along. It is also in Resolution 1441, which concludes by saying that the inspectors' report should be returned to the Security Council. That is why I am all the more surprised that some parties in this Chamber will not follow Resolution 1441 to await this re-reporting, which has only begun so far. The government's position is clear. We warn the United States against going to war on Iraq alone or with any other country without an anchor in international law and decisions in the Security Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e121	It will be follow-up questions – Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e124	It is probably SV Prime Minister does not understand in this matter when he is concerned that not everyone will comply with a possible resolution on war, or obediently will follow the United States if they find out that they are going to war alone. What's unfortunate in this case is that the world has slipped into a situation where the only possible outcome can be a war against Iraq. Norway is co-responsive, because we've been sitting in the Security Council and taking part in the resolutions that have begun to threaten war, and that have legitimized the build-up of force that the United States has now undertaken in the Gulf, making it difficult for Bush to go home without a clear victory. Our position is that the worst possible outcome in relation to the crisis in Iraq is a war. It gambles with world peace, it gambles with the situation in the Middle East – it needs a despot who can be faithful to use any weapons of mass destruction if he has it, up in a corner. Does Bondevik think that the worst possible outcome in Iraq is a war?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e135	Firstly, I have to make it clear, since Kristin Halvorsen clearly misunderstood, that we will take an independent assessment after a treatment in the United Nations. One does not follow slavishly a UN decision. But it's clear that the world community speaks with one clear voice, it's going a lot to go another way. But we will – and I said that in my previous answer – have an independent conclusion afterwards. It is also totally misleading and, in my view, gross propaganda to say that we will obey the United States without further delay. We've had our own line. We've given our views to the United States. We asked them to cooperate with the UN, because it was long unclear. The United States has done so far. If they want to do it in the follow-up, we'll see. I do not therefore believe that the only possible outcome is war. One possible outcome is that Saddam Hussein is cooperating with the UN and the inspectors. That's the safest way to avoid it. I think we're going to be a little careful today to conclude with what's the worst possible. A war has cruel consequences, primarily suffering, and destabilization of the region. But Saddam Hussein has previously shown that he can use weapons of mass destruction. If he does, and uses them to an even greater extent than before, it can be a disaster that we don't see the end of.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e145	Åslauga Haga – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e148	The Prime Minister has been extremely economical in providing assessments of any war in Iraq. He has largely adhered to the procedure, and we still hear the mantra: the UN track. The problem with the UN track is that the United States has taken the UN as a hostage. President Bush says that if you don't do what the United States wants, we will go to war with Iraq alone. President Bush says that the Security Council does not do what the United States wants, makes itself irrelevant. This is some kind of blackmail. And the United States is actually breaking the basics of multilateralism, which some of us are concerned about. We can risk the United States threatening to reach a decision in the Security Council without representing the collective wisdom of the Council. My question is: does the Prime Minister think that the United States is running an acceptable race in the United Nations, and that the game that is now taking place in the Security Council is worthy of the UN?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e155	If the United States were to break with multilateralism, at least the representative Åslaug Haga would do it. And that's what surprises me the most, the one who's always spoken to strengthen the world organization of the United Nations. Now she will no longer care what the Security Council comes to, contrary to the intention of Resolution 1441, which I thought the Center Party was behind after consultations in the Stortinget. This surprises me quite strongly. It's also totally wrong to talk about the mantra UN track. The UN track is an active position because we want to strengthen the UN, because we believe that individual countries should not get along, nor the United States. However, it is the world community that is to provide guidance on how this matter is to be dealt with, and Norway is then to reach an independent conclusion. This is not a mantra. This is an active position in the hope of achieving a peaceful solution. My vision is that the Åslaug Hagas line increases the risk of war. It takes away the pressure on Saddam Hussein. It legitimizes that the United States doesn't care about the United Nations. I now have no need to distribute characteristics or to be an commentator, but if Åslaug Haga says that I have been sparing with assessments, she has followed something poorly. I have participated up to several debates on this and expressed my opinion. But my role as Prime Minister is not to be an commentator, it's to lead Norway, and I'm glad it has a wide coverage in the Stortinget – even if it doesn't have it with the representative Haga.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e164	Marit Nybakk – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e167	I am pleased that the Prime Minister underlines so strongly that we should try to find a peaceful solution. War is and will be the absolute worst that can hit a population. It is an absolute last resort that can be used and will be used, after using all means, both diplomatic and other. Of course, we are all concerned. The Norwegian people are concerned, and we have to do what we can to avoid war, and not least strengthen the UN, as we have always done. I want to ask the Prime Minister again what he is doing now along the way to strengthen the UN track, and for it to continue. And what does the Norwegian Government do to keep in touch with our allies, our closest, and other members of the Security Council to help ensure that the UN's position, whatever the outcome, is not weakened?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e174	For me – and I have thought through this matter thoroughly from an ethical point of view, I did so also in the context of the situation in Kosovo and Afghanistan – the use of military power is the absolute last resort after everyone else has been tried. Political, diplomatic and all kinds of means must be tried before a grabber comes to something as serious as military use of power. It must only be used if the option is worse – we do not face ideal choices – and Norway should have an independent assessment of it. But it is important that we also know what the UN Security Council means. Then we also have to think -- as I learned in my study time, and that's important -- consistent; so ethics is not just having a norm and a goal, it's also assessing the consequences of what a do and don't do. Not following the UN trail now can increase the risk of war, and it is ethically unacceptable to me. That is why we are following the UN track. So what do we do? We are actively working in the UN, even though we are no longer a member of the Security Council. We are in contact with our closest allies – at the latest yesterday we had – and make active use of the Norwegian views at this stage. No one should doubt that we are active. We're not passive posters after the U.S. or anyone else, who's made themselves insinuate. But fortunately not the representative Nybakk, who is in line with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e181	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e184	I have a question for the Prime Minister about the forthcoming salary settlement. Last year, the result resulted in a dramatic increase in the costs of Norwegian business and municipalities because there was no income policy cooperation, which the Progress Party then tried to propose in vain. This year there is income policy cooperation and contact between the Government and the parties. And I have now noticed that the L.L. Federal Head of the Joint Alliance, Kjell Bjørndalen, has begun to copy the views of the Progress Party. He says in today's Business today: ‘If we go in with traditional low-wage supplements in ours, it can stimulate more people to move production to Lithuania and other countries. I have therefore launched the idea of providing tax relief instead of low pay supplements." The Government of income policy cooperation is set to offer tax incentives, for example: increased bottom-up deductions, which have a social good profile, and any changes in fees to limit the cost growth of business and possibly to zero settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e196	Firstly, I think it is very important that we achieve income-policy cooperation based on the situation in the Norwegian economy and in the Norwegian business world, because many Norwegian companies, especially export-oriented ones, face a severe risk of job losses. For this reason, the Government has already made tax cuts — in two years’ time — of DKK 19 billion, most of which are for business. We're also happy to see that the interest rate is going down. It's been reduced twice after the budget agreement here in Stortinget. Under the previous government it just went up, now it goes down, and is one percent lower than when we took over the government power. We now see a tendency at a reduced dollar rate, at least in relation to the euro. I also see a Chef's wife in Mutual NOR today says: ‘I believe the implemented and expected interest rate cut is part of the explanation of the impaired crown. In addition, both Prime Minister Bondevik and Minister of Finance Foss have said that they should keep tight budgets and reduce wage growth. This may also have contributed.’ So now economic policy works as it pleases. The interest rate goes down, the krone price is probably going down, and we're strengthening the business community in the fight against unemployment, which is essentially for the Government. But income policy cooperation is also important to dampen the rise in wages, so that we do not get into disrepute with the rest of the world. As is known, probably also for the representative of Hagen, the Government already agrees with the social partners on the basis of income policy cooperation and a joint opinion has been issued by the Contact Committee. Some elements have been mentioned as the basis for cooperation in the field of income policy. We shall consider further increases in the deduction of the trade union quota, an active response to undesirable wage developments, an intervention against undesirable time use, a follow-up to developments in the price of electricity and, where appropriate, action – some have already started by the Government. The question of direct tax relief in addition to this is, as far as I remember, not mentioned in this declaration. But of course, income policy cooperation is to be developed and materialised now, and all questions raised by the parties will of course be taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e208	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer, which I think could have been much more offensive. It is clear that Norwegian industry, and in particular the competitive sector, are struggling with its competitiveness. Then it's about doing not increase costs. In contrast to all other countries, Norway has a very large surplus in its state economy, in its state budgets. So we have an opportunity that other countries do not have to ensure the development of purchasing power by reducing taxes and taxes to compensate for employers' pay supplements, whether private sector enterprises or municipalities. Will the Prime Minister state that yes, the Government is prepared to assess this if there is a wish to do so in income policy cooperation and in the meetings that will also be later, so that a positive signal is already given to the competitive sector – and yes, the Government is prepared to also make changes in taxes and taxes to ensure competitiveness, thereby ensuring employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e217	We have already given the positive signal about cooperation in income policy and the assessment of actions that the parties are travelling, through the Contact Committee meeting and the declaration there. There are specific questions mentioned in this statement, where – as far as I remember – the representative Hagen now raises was not mentioned. We are based on this statement. On that basis, inter alia: The Land Organisation, in which Bjørndalen represents an important special federation, supported that declaration. We're dealing with it. It is clear that further questions arise during the process, we will always consider them. However, we should also bear in mind that the Government and the majority of the population – in comparison with the Progress Party – have already made a significant contribution, through the adopted State budget, in terms of tax relief, also too low pay. It was part of the 2003 budget decision, which is also based on income policy cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e225	There will be follow-up questions – Rolf Terje Klungland.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e228	It is quite remarkable that the representative Carl I. Hagen now presses the Joint Alliance to his chest, as it is an organisation that the Progress Party has committed itself to the removal of the program. As for the Government's income policy cooperation, I have a follow-up question to the Prime Minister. It's like when you're going to have a relationship with someone, you're going to cooperate. At the same time as emphasising income policy cooperation, the Government makes proposals in the Storting that weaken the employee's rights. They will extend their working hours, and they will weaken job protection, and we know that in the long term they also have a desire to weaken the health pay system. My question is therefore: will the Prime Minister extend income policy cooperation to take account of the workers in this country – in relation to the rights they currently have through the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e237	Of course, the Government and the Grand Duchy take account of employees' rights. The Labour Environment Act and other laws are a strong protection of Norwegian workers’ rights, and the Government has no plans — in any decisive way — to weaken it. There may be differing views on flexibility with regard to overtime provisions. In my view, the proposals put forward do not represent a weakening of employees' rights. We have no long-term goal of weakening the sickness pay system. On the contrary, we are working together on inclusive working to reduce the strong increase in sick leave without interfering with the sickness pay scheme. After all, income policy cooperation does not require the Government to follow the social partners slavely — and is deprived of any political perception. Income policy cooperation presupposes that we can have a different view of a number of questions. However, we still have income policy cooperation, because this is so important. The LO has agreed – despite the things the representative of Klungland said – to engage in income policy cooperation. We are pleased that this is a responsible position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e246	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e249	An important part of the debate on the State budget this autumn was about an important part of our competitive industry, namely shipping. There was also a tax as an instrument which was absolutely central to the introduction of a net pay mechanism to strengthen the competitiveness of this industry vis-à-vis the rest of the world – in so far as the exact same thing that Bjørndalen is talking about, but this time it concerns wage-fixing. We can now read in the paper today that the government has ambitions to make a notification about Norwegian shipping only in the spring of 2004. In my opinion, it is a very passive way by the Government to meet the challenge in a very vulnerable industry. Does this mean, together with the signals now given by the Prime Minister, that the Government intends to meet the challenges facing the entire Norwegian competitive business, just as passively as the Prime Minister now expresses?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e256	The Prime Minister has not expressed a passive attitude. The fact that the Stortinget gets a message where you can go through Norwegian schemes compared to competing countries’ schemes, and not just take out individual parts of other countries’ schemes – a kind of top shelf withdrawal, as some people do – I think is very useful for the debate on the situation of shipping. We want to present that to the Stortinget, and I hope that the representative Siv Jensen will not have it asked. I think it might be useful both for her and for others to get an analysis of the shipping situation and compare the arrangements in Norway with those in other countries. This does not mean that the Government cannot take active action in the meantime, if the situation so requires. We made a budgetary settlement with the representative Jensen's party in Stortinget before Christmas that gave some decisions and some leadership. We'll follow that up, of course. In addition, however, we believe that such an analysis and a broad debate on which a communication is based are positive. As regards the general situation of the competitive business, the Government is not passive. On the contrary, we are pursuing an active tax, business and industrial policy to safeguard their situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e267	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e270	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. Last night – Norwegian time – the President of the United States gave his ‘State of the Union’ speech, where he spoke among others. said the U.S. has evidence that there is a connection between Saddam Hussein and the Al Qaida network, where he said the United States wants to follow the so-called UN track, but that they go alone if they don't get the UN with them against Iraq. Will the Norwegian Government demand that the United States immediately submit to the United Nations and the United Nations Security Council any evidence – as they say they have – of a connection between Saddam Hussein and Al Qaida, so that the logic of war does not say even more into this situation and one comes in the hopelessness that war can be the conclusion – almost in any case?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e279	First of all, just to make it clear: we're warning the United States against going alone. It's an independent Norwegian position and in itself an expression that we're not targeting the United States or other actors in this, for which we're sometimes accused. As far as evidence is concerned, the President of the United States has said – as far as I understood from the speech of the night – that his Foreign Minister will come to the Security Council in a week from today, February 5, and present this. If the United States believes that they need that time to organize this for the United Nations, it's hard for me here now, without knowing the background for this any more, to say that they have to be able to do this today. Of course, there will also be a question of what facilitates the treatment of the UN Security Council. But what I agree with the representative of the Halvorsen is that we must not accept a development where there is a kind of war logic that makes it the only possible outcome. We must also bear in mind that the most important key to avoiding war is, of course, at Saddam Hussein. It surprises me a bit that some people in this room don't seem to be into that thought at all. If Iraq is now cooperating – not with the United States, but with the UN and their weapons inspectors on the points where Hans Blix said they had not cooperated – by answering some important questions about weapons of mass destruction, biological and chemical, and also in the case of missiles, we can avoid a war. Now, too, much of the international commitment must be directed towards Iraq and make them understand that the United Nations, throughout the 1990s, has called for cooperation on the part of Iraq. They've been neglecting it for a long time. In practice, they threw the weapons inspectors out of Iraq in 1998. Now they're back in. Then they have to cooperate. Then we can get a peaceful exit on this. There is the Government's overall objective in this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e290	I'm trying to take the Prime Minister with the good stuff, but I have to say it's going to last hard. We've been on a raging trend on this issue only over the past few weeks. The Prime Minister is beginning to become clearer and clearer about relieving the forces in his own party, in the Church and in Norwegian opinion that are now very concerned that there may be a dangerous war in Iraq. These are real discussions that SV has been trying to get the government to go into. Then we have received one answer, and that is to now follow Norway's lead. But we haven't got any meat and blood on our legs in terms of what this UN trail actually contains. Now the Prime Minister is out saying that those who believe it is dangerous to threaten war are those who provoke a war. I think that is very serious, especially because the Prime Minister is about to wash his hands at once when he says like Germany and France, that Norway has to take its own stand, and that even if the Security Council is going to go for war against Iraq, Norway is not sure to support it. Is this just to answer our country's questions, so that he can calm Norwegian voters, or is it the actual attitude that Norway will take?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e299	I think that when it comes to drawing the motives of others into doubt, as the representative Halvorsen really does, she should be a little careful. She does not stand back for anyone else in that way, with the accusations she has sometimes addressed to the Government. The government's line hasn't become clearer and clearer, it's actually been the same all along. The debate has become more intense in recent times. That is why opinions have also been expressed more strongly. We are just as concerned about a war as the representative of Halvorsen. I don't just understand the turmoil I share. That's why our work is now aimed at peace. But the representative Halvorsen has to bear to hear that the consequences of not wanting to wait for the UN means removing the pressure on Saddam Hussein, at the risk of developing weapons of mass destruction, with disastrous consequences as a possibility. The representative, Halvorsen, must be able to hear that. She must also bear to hear that it can mean legitimizing that the United States no longer cares about the United Nations – it has been an intense effort for the United States to follow the UN track. The consequences we have to explore also ethically, and in my view they are extremely problematic, to say it mildly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e307	There will be follow-up questions – Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e310	First, on behalf of the Progress Party, let me say that we largely share the government's assessments and are satisfied with the government's work on the Iraq issue. I also think it makes sense and useful that we have a situation in Norway where the two largest opposition parties essentially agree with the Government, so that we stand together – except for some parties. It's in itself an important moment for a small country. Then there has been talk of under – and war is a evil. I am therefore very pleased that the Council of State has stressed that there is something that Saddam Hussein can do here, namely to ensure that he fully cooperates with the UN, and that we get an assurance that he does not have weapons of mass destruction. There is another evil, which too many may be equally evil, namely that Saddam Hussein continues to move forward, has weapons of mass destruction and uses them, possibly against someone in his own area or against Israel. The whole purpose is to ensure that no weapons of mass destruction are used. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he agrees that it is a quite clear objective to prevent Saddam Hussein from using weapons of mass destruction.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e319	The whole of the United Nations position throughout the 1990s, following the 1991 Gulf War, is aimed, firstly, at revealing whether Iraq has weapons of mass destruction and, secondly, at having a peaceful disarmament of them, if they exist. It has reinforced Resolution 1441 of the Security Council. This is a story over ten years long, which is also important for everyone in this debate to take inwards. The UN track is, of course, not a mantra for me. It's a reality, an active policy, because we think that's what gives the greatest chance of peace, and it helps to strengthen the UN. Secondly, the UN track is not a preparation for war. The UN track is, as Hans Blix himself said, the alternative to war, one last chance to try to avoid war. That's why the government is so active on that line. It surprises me that someone is opposed to it. War has dangerous consequences — suffering, destabilization of the region and unfortunate consequences for the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. That is why we must seek to avoid war.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e326	Kettil Bjørklund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e329	A war against Iraq can lead to a very dangerous international situation and destabilise the whole region. One of our allies in NATO, Turkey, can quickly be drawn directly or indirectly into the war through its extensive lending of bases and ports to the United States. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what such a situation could mean for Norway as a NATO member. Could this bring us into the war against Iraq almost through the back door?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e336	Let me first say that I agree with the representative of Bjørklund that war is a dangerous situation – literally a fatal situation – and I think we largely share the analysis of it. For me, it's the worst human suffering it'll bring on civilians and innocents as well. It could destabilise the region. It could, if it is not widely discussed, mean a division in the international coalition against terrorism, and it may have additional unfortunate features of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, which is difficult from before. We're dividing that. That's why we work actively to avoid this exit, and that's the entire government's goal: a peaceful solution. Turkey is an ally. If they are to be withdrawn, we have two articles in the NATO Pact, Article 4 and Article 5 – the first concerns the right to consult, Article 5 is the one that has been triggered earlier if a country is directly attacked. It is clear that we cannot close our eyes for that to happen, but we must make a very clear distinction between the issue of UN treatment and any military conflict in Iraq and how it had to go for an ally who had to ask for assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e343	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e346	I'm also going to ask the Prime Minister a question. In the previous round here, the Prime Minister did not answer my question, so I want to repeat it. Does the Prime Minister think that the United States is running an acceptable race in the United Nations, and that the game that is now taking place in the Security Council is worthy of the United Nations? The Prime Minister has commented on my views, he has commented on the views of the Central Party, and he has commented on the positions of the opposition in general. But I want to hear the Prime Minister's assessment of that question. Then the Government, as the Prime Minister commends it, is going to make a maritime assessment of its handling of the Iraq issue after the Security Council has dealt with it. I would like to challenge the Prime Minister to hear how he weighs what can be achieved with a military action in Iraq, against the risk he will take with him a military attack. I want to hear the substance in that emphasis.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e355	As far as the United States is concerned, it's not like I share all of the US's assessments, and much less everything that's part of the country's rhetoric. I think, for example, that the concept of ‘accle of evil’ is not productive for an approach to those countries that were thus characterised, although it is very much to say about Iraq, North Korea and other countries that were thus characterised. The question is, how do we approach these countries in order to seek a peaceful solution in the conflicts that are the case here? I think maybe you should be a little careful with talking about -- if I didn't hear wrong -- a game in the United Nations. I have more respect for what's going on in the United Nations than that. I believe that the members of the Security Council are taking this very seriously. In any case, it also does the Norwegian delegation, which is no longer a member of the Security Council. I have so much faith in the United Nations organization that they don't let themselves dictate or let themselves be a hostage of one country, the United States, although it's not an entirely unproblematic situation that we're left with just one superpower. There is a problematic situation in itself. So ask the representative if we can weigh the benefits and disadvantages of a war against another solution. Now I've already given those reasoning a long way, and they can't actually be completed until we get the final report from the UN inspectors. If they know more about the presence of weapons of mass destruction there and the danger of their use, of course, it's very heavy. We can't do that before we know anything about it. But I have said that in relation to a war, the worst thing for me is the human suffering, the danger of destabilization of the region, the division of the international coalition against terror if it is not united in an action, and the effect on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. On the other hand, of course, there is the danger of war and the disastrous consequences it may have if Saddam Hussein has weapons of mass destruction, and uses them, as he has shown before, against Iran and against Kurds in Northern Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e362	A large majority of the Norwegian people seem to be against war, with or without UN mandate. It is said that the Norwegian people, long before the Prime Minister did so today, have pointed out some of the problems associated with a military attack. Nor do I believe that the Norwegian people in general see that there is something acute about the situation in Iraq now that would cause a military attack. So I want the Prime Minister's assessment of what it is now that is new, which means that it is now considering a military attack. We are now in the happy situation that the weapons inspectors are inside. In the last round they worked for several years. Now we've just given them a few months. My question is, what is it that should indicate that the situation is acute now? So my next question is: is it at all possible for the Prime Minister to take Norway into a war in Iraq when the opinion in Norway is as clear as it seems to be?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e367	I understand that the representative Haga will continue to anticipate the conclusions without listening to the UN. It surprises me that the Central Party spokeswoman does, the Center Party, which has always been a member of the United Nations in relation to multilateralism. Now the Center Party is actually going for a so-called unilateral approach. The other thing that surprises me is that the representative does this when, in fact – I mean it honestly – it increases the risk of war, either by Saddam Hussein triggering it because he no longer has any pressure on him, or by other countries, like the United States, taking the event on their own. Opinion I hear, and it is a strong expression of the desire to avoid war. That's also the government line. That's what we work for all the time. That is why we are following the UN track, because it is the alternative to war, not a preparation for war. As far as the emergency is concerned, I think we need to wait for the final report of the UN inspectors. There were some disturbing unanswered questions in it – I also hope the representative Haga admits – anthrax, nerve gas, rockets. Has Saddam Hussein or not? And how acute is the danger that he uses it? In fact, we need to have that assessed by the inspectors and the Security Council before we draw the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e377	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e380	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. A broad majority in the UK – that includes the Centre Party, otherwise – went for 14–15 months to participate in Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan. We've sent special forces. They haven't been in battle. We've had miners there. We now have F-16 planes and pilots and ground crews in Kyrgyzstan. Yesterday, the first bomb was released from a Norwegian plane. I was in Ørland before the Norwegian pilots went to Kyrgyzstan. I've been talking to these guys -- and the girls, for that matter. I know that there are young people with a high degree of integrity, and I would like the families who sit at home and are anxious to know that we politicians are behind them once we have made the decision to send them. I would like to ask the Minister of Defence: is there any indisposition on or any reason to believe that the special Norwegian guidelines for participation in Operation Enduring Freedom have not been followed in the attack that was carried out yesterday?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e391	I can confirm that the Norwegian exposure rules have been followed to the point and the point in relation to the fact that we have now released bombing loads in Afghanistan. In addition to having exposure rules that describe what objectives and groupings we can attack, it's a code that's actually superior to this, and it's the self-defense institute. When the Norwegian forces or coalition forces are attacked by enemy groupings, self-defence applies unconditionally. It's what's entered into this case. There was a grouping that attacked our allies on the ground, and it was then necessary to three supporters from the air. Just because Norway itself has had special forces on the ground and has been dependent on other nations that had planes in the air, I know how, as Minister of Defense, I would have reacted if the planes that were to support our forces on the ground had not rescued us if we had needed it. When you operate in a coalition, you have to take care of each other. Now it's our turn to have the hard job of patrolling the air. But we're in alliance with those who do the job on the ground, the job we used to have. I want to say that when we sent the forces down, it was with three objectives: one is preventative presence in the air – it has President Karzai underlined the importance of keeping the activities calm and preventing attacks. The other is to be able to take out bombings on the ground. And the third is to get the ground strengths to the rescue. That's what we did. Everything has happened to the point, and I am very pleased that Marit Nybakk, as the representative of the broad majority, is behind the actions of our soldiers and our officers in this very matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e402	I thank the Council of State for the answer. If there's something people are tired of, it's politicians who run away from their responsibility. Sometimes it could actually be good to ask the question to the opposition. I'm not going to do that. I would just like to stress once again that the parties that have made the decision that we should participate in Operation Enduring Freedom, in my opinion, should also stand united at the moment that something is happening that you don't like. If you say a, you say b. However, I have another question to the Council of State. Now there is a huge need for humanitarian action in Afghanistan. I would like to ask how the Government affects its allies in order to create a nation building, and for real, also for the Americans to assist in humanitarian construction. I would also like to ask about the relationship between humanitarian aid and Operation Enduring Freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e411	In fact, there is a close link between military activity and humanitarian activity in Afghanistan. There was also some of what President Karzai stressed so strongly when he was here before Christmas, that having the military presence was a prerequisite for rebuilding the country. And just the fact that the first flight of Operation Enduring Freedom sent down under the control of the Norwegian forces, was a plane with baby food, illustrates it. In addition to Operation Enduring Freedom, which helps to keep terrorist groups calm, we also participate in the UN-led ISAF forces. In this context, we have now announced that we will send down a team of CIMIC personnel, i.e. civil/military cooperation, which is about to participate in the reconstruction process. And as if that's not enough, we also participate as the leader of the donor country group and make large humanitarian contributions, not least together with allies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e418	There will be follow-up questions – Bjørn Hernæs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e421	I would like to remind you of the fact that Norwegian forces operate in Afghanistan following an order from the Government, with the support of an overwhelming majority in Stortinget. So we've sent Norwegian youth out on the most dangerous mission that human beings can be assigned. I was met last yesterday in a debate with the claim that Norwegian pilots are at risk of being put before the International Criminal Court by doing the job that they have been charged with by the accumulation and government. I want to ask the Council of State if she can give us an explanation of the clear responsibility that lies with us, that is, the government and the big business, and that the individual soldier and their families, not least, can feel absolutely confident that we politicians are behind the missions that we have sent these young people into.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e430	Of course, I can confirm that. I think there's reason to stress that there's a time for discussion, there's a time for decision, and then there's a time to stand behind the decisions. When, after debate, both in December 2001, last year and October last year, the Stortinget also adopted the Afghanistan deployment of F-16, we made an important decision. At the same time, we have said that no one should be sent to Afghanistan against their will. We've recruited the staff on a voluntary basis. Then there's an extra big moral obligation to stand behind those who say: it's okay, I can travel, and behind their families, who have accepted it. Now we are at a stage where there is time for support. The law has been followed to the point and the dot. It's been a matter of self-defence where allied forces are under attack. There is no doubt about it, and then also the same parties that sent them down must stand behind them now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e439	Kettil Bjørklund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e442	The situation that has now arisen has been dealt with by a broad majority in this process with open eyes, and of course the political majority is responsible for the outcome. Very many of us ask what Norway really has to do in Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan. The question mark does not diminish the claim that the insurgents who were bombed belonged to Hekmatyar, who was exiled under the Taliban and who opposed both the Taliban and Al Qaida. Now his forces participate in the rivalry of power. This harms the population of Afghanistan and threatens the security of the country. When we bomb these rebels, are we involved in a civil war, or in the fight against terrorism? Does the Minister of Defense agree that it is unfortunate if we become a party to a civil war in Afghanistan? Is this in line with our exposure rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e449	In these cases, with which we went out in the press yesterday, the coalition forces on the ground were attacked by opposing forces. Also coalition helicopters were shot at, and the enemy forces, who were relatively numerous and organized, were an immediate threat to coalition personnel. In such a situation, Norwegian aircraft and the coalition have the right to attack anyone in self-defense. In this context, it doesn't matter if the person who shoots at you is related to Al Qaida, Taliban, Hekmatyar or others. That being said, Hekmatyar and his forces have ties to Al Qaida and the Taliban. They have attacked coalition personnel on a number of occasions, and they have declared war on the alliance. That Hekmatyar has changed partners through a long life as a warlord is another story.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e457	Odd Roger Enoksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e460	It is true, as has been said, that the Central Party has given its support to participation in the fight against terrorism, and to the representation we now have in Afghanistan. That's what the Senter Party has to do with it. It cannot prevent us from asking questions about the developments this conflict is taking, and the episodes in which Norwegian forces are involved. I'm going to be the first to acknowledge that there are difficult balances to be made by Norwegian personnel in Afghanistan, in relation to the situation you face, but we can't risk being dragged into internal conflicts in civil war-like conditions. There is a look at the front page of the Daily newspaper today, where Norwegian Afghanistan experts say, ‘Do we believe the wrong enemy was bombed?’ We have to do what is possible to avoid such looking ups in the further follow-up in Afghanistan, so my question is short and good: what does the government do to avoid us being dragged into internal civil war-like conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e467	I would first like to say that I agree with the Center Party's Odd Roger Enoksen that we should always ask questions. But it must not mean that we ask questions in such a way that our soldiers and officers who are now down there, from 1 October to 1 April, may get the impression that they have lost the support of those who sent them down, while they are in a very difficult situation and are being shot at. What we're doing to make sure we're not being dragged into other operations and other activities down there than those we've strictly defined in advance, within our exposure rules, is simply by having the command line we're part of. We have our own personnel in the command line that are both part of staff functions and are liaison officers with Norway. Their job is just to ensure that Norwegian fighter aircraft are used according to our exposure rules. And they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e474	Kristin Halvorsen – to a final follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e477	I just need to say that I think it's neat that the government takes the responsibility it actually has in this situation. The government and the great majority have sent people to war, to sharp operations, for the first time since World War II. It is very tidy and the only responsibility to do what the government is doing now: take responsibility. If the government had expressed itself as the Center Party has done – first to support the sending of soldiers, and then to question what they actually do – I think it would have been very unfair and completely impossible for those serving in the Norwegian defence to do the job they have been assigned to. When these decisions were taken by Stortinget, only SV was accepted. That it's serious for someone now, that Norway's side actually for the first time after the Second World War participates in a war and bomb targets in other countries, should have gone up for the Storting before joining the mission to send soldiers to do this job.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e484	I would like to say that I fully agree with the Swedish authorities that the decisions they have taken must be taken. But I would say to SV that also SV has a dilemma, because SV wants humanitarian help, but does not want to participate in war. SV said yes to send Norwegian soldiers and officers to the ISAF forces, but said no to Operation Enduring Freedom. It shows how difficult this is, because Enduring Freedom was the first operation that actually brought down humanitarian aid, and also the ISAF forces will have to arm themselves and have to react to self-defense situations. So there are no clear limits here. The only thing we need to be aware of is that if we are to bring down humanitarian aid, there must be some security and stability in the country. There is room for different conclusions as to who we are behind – as the Swedish Government and the Swedish authorities have drawn different conclusions – but there must be understanding that the objective is the same, namely to help.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e491	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e494	My question goes to our defence minister, but does not include two Norwegian bombs, class bombs, Iraq or pretty knees. It is about those who do not have a duty to protect, versus those who – unfortunately relatively few – deserve protection and who give one year of their life to the Defense and thus lose an estimated DKK 100000 in income, are away from their family, suffer a break in any education, etc. So the question is: what will the Council of State do to ensure that those who serve their one-year duty of protection can do so without excessive negligence on the part of the individual, and thus can be compensated for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e501	I thank you for the question and for the fact that it is not about knees, although both the representative Bredvold and I have covered our knees properly until today. I agree with Mr Bredvold that it is a major problem if the duty of protection is perceived as unfair. There are two challenges to protection: one is quality, and the other is justice. I'm a glowing fan of general protection, because it gives quality. If we were to have a professional defense, I think unfortunately we hadn't managed to recruit the best. But then we also have to have justice in place, so that those who choose to perform the service do not experience that they are losing. There are different ways we can make it happen, first of all, that we make a better silage mechanism, so it shouldn't be too easy to get away. Today, our soldiers have a real opportunity to choose community services on a voluntary basis. That means that just because of that we don't get 100 pst. the implementation of military protection obligations. In addition, the defence has zero tolerance against drugs, i.e. that we cannot use drug users in Norwegian defence in connection with weapons. The third is that of course health conditions also provide a basis for exemption. The main objective should be that there are these three bases for exemptions in force and no one else. What we can do, and that's exactly what we're about to do, is make sure that we, because we get a more specialised defense for the sea, air and army, take in a few fewer there, but use the Homeland Protection to take in the large group of Norwegian youth. Then, as the representative, Mr Bredvold, we must also look at other status-enhancing measures relating to both the study score and the content of the service, and that is what we are about to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e512	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which is very much in line with my view of this. I'm also glad the Council of State brought it with the Home Office. Can e.g. a first-time paid service is an assessment? It's a lot about dollars here, and it's about a lot of dollars. Then an economic compensation must be more than NOK 102 per day.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e519	This is a difficult question. What gives status? I don't think we'll ever be able to pay a benevolent anything near what he'll earn by sitting in the box at Rimi. But we can look at a number of measures that give status, and that's not always money is the answer. The content of the service, by getting a valuable education, a technologically advanced service that gives relevance to professional life, by making sure that our employers actually pay attention to whether people have performed their first job in their employment assessments, and the addition of increased emphasis in the higher education and university environment, can perhaps give as high a status as a few dollars in addition to the day, because we will never reach a minimum wage anyway. My strategy is primarily about the other measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e525	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e530	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Kristin Halvorsen to the Prime Minister, has been withdrawn. Question 2, from the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Culture and the Church. Question 6, from the representative Siri Hall Arnøy to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be raised by the representative Jørund Leknes. Question 7, from the representative Svein Roald Hansen to the Minister of Finance, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 15, from the representative of Øyvind Vaksdal to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has left. At the request of the Minister for the Environment, this question is moved and answered before question 25, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 16, from the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister for Education and Research, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State for question 6. Question 18, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health who directs him. Question 26, from the representative Henrik Red to the Minister for the Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance who is directing him. The question is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister of Finance has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e564	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e571	This question, from the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Culture and the Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e574	I will ask the Minister of Culture the following questions, even if it was originally addressed to the Prime Minister: ‘The Minister of State, in talks with the President of Russia, called for cooperation on concrete projects across the Norwegian-Russian border. As is known, there are plans for the construction of Kautokeino, which was in 1852, where the timber is to be delivered from Russia, and Russian carpenters are responsible for the construction of Kautokeino 1852. The project will also meet the Equalisation Communication, as a business project in Finland. The matter is discussed in the Innst. S. No 196 for 2001-2002. Does the Prime Minister take the glove?»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e583	I want to show that this question was discussed by the Stortinget as late as June 2002. A majority in Stortinget went against this construction project and indicated that the investment plan for national cultural buildings did not allow for new construction projects until early 2006. The representative, Mr Ballo, asked a similar question in the February 2002 Question Time. He then received the same answer from Minister for Children and Family Laila Davøy, who replied on my behalf. I can't see that things would be different today, despite the fact that the project has maintained cooperation across the Norwegian-Russian border. Since then, both the Ministry of Culture and the Church, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Industry and Trade have assessed applications for support for the project. So far, none of the departments have found the basis to give way to the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e592	It is clear that the Minister of Culture chooses his quotations with care in relation to the Storting's handling of the matter. I would like to emphasise a comment in the position taken by the Culture Committee when the matter was discussed, where it says: ‘This majority will point to the possibility and see this project as an industrial project targeting internal Finnmark, cf. St.meld. [[1998 - 1999]] No 50 The Smoothing Message, and asks the Government to return with an appropriate assessment as soon as possible.’ I want to demand the government's assessment, which was to take place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e602	As I said in my answer, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has assessed this matter and found that it cannot be supported. I'm going to make sure that the assessment that's being requested comes back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e607	I think it's interesting to read the conversation between the Prime Minister and Putin, where you discuss current projects, and where cultural projects are drawn out in particular. A declaration between Prime Minister Bondevik and Putin describes closer contact and more frequent mutual visits between artists and cultural institutions in the two countries. It is agreed to cover areas such as music, dance, theater, film, visual arts and literature. And you have a relatively vivid description of how this is going to happen. But what you can ask is what are the concrete projects that you're thinking of. So here you get a concrete project served on a silver barrel and duly no thanks.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e614	You can ask questions about whether it is served on a silver barrel or what it is, at least it has to be paid. When it comes to cultural means or means of cultural construction, the representative knows that we have a code there, and that we do not have the opportunity to find funds until 2006 for this project. It was also repeatedly underlined when we had the debate in the United Kingdom in 2002. For me, it is also important to stress that the Ministry of Industry and Trade has seen this project as a nutritional project, and they have not found that this is what Finnmark needs. When it comes to other interactions between Russia and Norway in the cultural sector, we have many possibilities. But I didn't think giving support to this construction project is the best in that way. It's resource-requiring, and we don't know how much cultural life will benefit from it either. In all the other areas mentioned by the representative, there will be good cooperation between Norway and Russia, but I think this building project is not the best project to facilitate such cooperation. I actually mean that one will bind up very large resources in some buildings. There are enough timber from Russia, but I think there are other forms of cooperation in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e626	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘Libya is a dictatorship country that has been known for many years to support international terrorism. A representative of this terrorist state has now been elected as head of the UN Commission on Human Rights. What confidence does the Minister for Foreign Affairs believe that we can subsequently have in the UN Commission on Human Rights and the UN system in general?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e635	On the Norwegian side, we strongly regret the election of Libya as chairman of the 59th session of the UN Commission on Human Rights. The Commission is the main forum for addressing human rights issues in the United Nations. It is therefore important to be led by a representative of a country that has a credible profile on human rights issues. This is not least important in relation to the Commission’s external face and the overall level of confidence of the Commission. On the other hand, the importance of the President should not be exaggerated, even if the signal power cannot be depreciated in this case. The 53 members of the Commission make all important decisions jointly. The President’s role is to chair a board composed of one representative of each of the three UN regional groups. This work rotates between the different regional groups, which also nominate their candidates to the board. Next year, it's the turn of the West Group to take over the leadership. We have made our view of the Libyan Presidency known both to the African countries and to the international environment in Geneva, where the Commission meets. In the election of the government, which took place on January 20, the United States went this year to the unusual step of asking for a vote on the Libyan candidate. Norway is not a member of the Commission and therefore did not vote. Recent efforts have been made in Geneva to reduce potential adverse effects in this situation. All regional groups now seem to be prepared to put this behind them and concentrate on the important work the Commission is facing. I therefore hope that the Libyan leader will now feel a special responsibility to lead the Commission's work towards constructive solutions. At the time Libya is the President of the Commission, there will also be a special focus on the internal situation in the country. We hope that this too can work positive. In other words, I assume that the Commission will carry out its important work in a constructive and professional manner. However, I hope that the different regional groups will think more carefully before nominating their candidates for future elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e648	I am, of course, satisfied with the Norwegian position on the presidential election. But I wonder if the Minister for Foreign Affairs has come up with some ideas about the majority who can vote on such a representative to the head of a Human Rights Commission, and what this tells of the UN's ability and inability to secure peace, freedom and democracy in the world. This is not the first time the UN has scandalized itself. We remember the UN's indirect involvement in the Serb massacre of the civilian population in Srebrenica. The question is whether NATO and the United States have proved to be a better instrument to ensure peace, freedom and democracy than the United Nations is, among other things. on the basis of such scandals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e655	I agree with Jan Simonsen that this election is giving completely wrong signals, and that it is raising debates that shouldn't be raised, because you should focus on other things. But I understand that there will be debates, because this signal is completely wrong. That means that even if you're going to try to get the maximum positive out of this session, I focus on what I said at the end of my answer, that it's important that we in dialogue with other groups now really draw experience of what's happened, and make sure that nothing similar happens later. I don't think at all that in our dialogue with African countries we should make it clear how successful their choice has been this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e660	I don't have any further questions. I am pleased with the answer and just hope that the Foreign Minister will take these thoughts about what has happened, with him in the further debate on the Iraq issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e665	Yeah, well, it was just a shipment to go on. But I want to say that the Iraq issue lies within the UN Security Council, and I have full confidence in the 15 members of the UN Security Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e673	I will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘For the first time since 1998, UN weapons inspectors have been inside Iraq. They do a very important job, which they must be given the opportunity to complete. How does the Minister of Foreign Affairs assess the report of 27 January, what does it mean for the Government's assessment of a possible military attack on Iraq, and how does the Minister of Foreign Affairs assess the likelihood of a war in Iraq?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e682	UNMOVIC and IAEA weapons inspectors carry out work of the utmost importance. When we sat in the Security Council, we ourselves were involved in designing the terms of reference and duties of the inspectors and what requirements the regime in Baghdad had to meet. The arms inspectors' report of 27 January confirms that Saddam Hussein does not cooperate adequately with the inspectors. That is not enough from the Iraqi side to help establish whether there are weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. We note that the inspection report indicates that inspectors need more time for their work. We cannot yet confirm or cancel the presence of weapons of mass destruction or prohibited missiles. The report also refers to a number of serious points to which the inspectors have not received satisfactory or only incomplete answers. Among other things, 6500 bombs with chemical warheads have not been adequately accounted for or have provided satisfactory evidence of the destruction of 8500 litres of anthrax produced. There are signs that Iraq has produced more anthrax than mentioned, and that it has tested rockets with a range beyond the permitted 150 kilometers. Our view has always been that inspectors must be given the opportunity to carry out their work in accordance with the mandate given in Security Council Resolution 1441. We are therefore pleased that the United States and the United Kingdom now seem to be willing to give inspectors more time. World society and the UN must set clear limits on what is possible from the Iraqi regime. But an armed conflict is not inevitable. We are now awaiting re-examination by the Security Council of the inspectors' reports, starting in New York later today. The way in which the world society acts must be anchored in decisions of the Council. That will be the basis on which the Government bases its position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e695	I thank you for your answer. The Minister for Foreign Affairs notes that the United States is committed to giving the weapons inspectors more time. But if we listened to President Bush's speech last night in Norwegian time, it was not possible to interpret it in any other way than that the time that would be given was very limited. I would also think that it is relatively impossible for the United States to have the forces standing in the Gulf for a very long time. In the previous round, weapons inspectors spent a very long time in Iraq before they were unfortunately thrown out in 1998. Now we've given the weapons inspectors only weeks to work. My question is: with the knowledge the Foreign Minister has in this field, does he believe that a few weeks more for the weapons inspectors is sufficient to do the job they are supposed to do in accordance with Resolution 1441?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e704	I think that's reason to stress two important things first. Firstly, it was Iraq that threw out the weapons inspectors in 1998, and at that time there were a number of unresolved issues that Resolution 1441 called for Iraq to clarify. They could do that. The problem with the report that came on Monday is that Iraq has not given the clarification of the unanswered questions that have been there. It is surprising that Iraq has not used the opportunity to answer these questions. The second is that when the inspectors came in this time, it was precisely because of the pressure in Resolution 1441. I think you have to admit that the total construction of 1441 is exactly why we now have inspectors in there. So ask Åslaug Haga how long the inspectors need. It's hard for me to judge. I have noticed that the inspectors themselves have had some views on it. But I think it has to be said that this is what the Council now has to sit down and discuss, so that they have the opportunity to decide on a time frame that is satisfactory. Norway has been clearly both public and in communication with related allies that it is important that inspectors have time to do the job they are going to do. But it is important to stress that the inspectors' work is more than just looking. It is also to assess the answers they get, and at that point Saddam Hussein could already have provided reasonable and correct answers to these questions. He hasn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e713	I am pleased that the government has been ready on the question of whether the weapons inspectors need more time. Then it will be interesting to follow the process in the Security Council in the future. In relation to a military attack, a sailor must also consider how acute the danger is that Saddam Hussein, if he is to have weapons of mass destruction, will actually use them. That's my follow-up question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. How acute does the Minister for Foreign Affairs perceive the danger of Saddam Hussein using weapons of mass destruction?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e720	I think it's impossible to give an answer with absolute precision to that question. We must remember that this is a very unpredictable dictator in a very closed country who has previously shown that he is capable of both attacking neighbouring countries and using weapons of mass destruction. And if there's something really scary, it's just chemical and biological weapons, because they're not least easy to hide and easy to produce. But I would like to remind you that what has been the United Nations' demands all along has been that this type of weapon should go away. The area must be demolished. That's what both the truce agreement and a lot of UN resolutions are all about. That's why it's the demand towards Saddam Hussein that you have to deal with. Now the outside world's pressure on Saddam Hussein has to be put there. Something else can create very dangerous situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e731	‘A war against Iraq could create a very dangerous international situation. Norway is no longer a member of the UN Security Council and therefore has to use other channels to influence decisions relating to international peace and security. How has the Government recently worked to contribute to a peaceful settlement of the Iraq conflict, and what concrete initiatives has Norway taken?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e738	The government believes that it is by helping to shape and support active, determined and credible treatment in the UN that Norway can best contribute to a peaceful solution. We did that as a member of the Security Council, and we do that now. In fact, according to Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter, a global society has decided that it is none other than the Security Council to decide how the world community is to face threats to international peace and security. The uncertainty as to whether Iraq still has weapons of mass destruction and means of delivery is such a threat. Although we are no longer a member of the Security Council, we still have the opportunity to influence the decisions taken in the Council. With this in mind, we have taken a number of initiatives towards the Member States of the Council to communicate our views and give a clear message. Contact with the United States and other related countries has been particularly important. The message we give is that the UN track must be followed. Inspectors must be given the time they need to carry out their duties. Countries with information that may be useful to inspectors must share such information with the UN. We've clearly expressed this to the United States as well. It is up to the Government to remove Iraq's weapons of mass destruction without the use of force. UN Security Council Resolution 1441 has drawn up the framework for how we can achieve this. But we know from experience that Iraq only cooperates under pressure. There can be no doubt that if Iraq again breaks the binding demands of the Security Council, Saddam Hussein and his people are exposed to the most serious consequences. It is therefore important to maintain the pressure on the regime in Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e753	The debate in the past has shown and made visible that the Government has a very passive attitude towards the UN Security Council, which is strange in view of the fact that Norway has just left the Security Council, and is strongly in charge of the somewhat unclear resolution 1441. The United States will press for support for a war. Germany and France are against a war. Which side are Petersen and the Government on, and which side will Norway support in the run-up to the new treatment in the Security Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e760	It is not right that the debate earlier today has shown that the Government has a passive attitude. On the contrary, the debate earlier today has shown that the Government is following the UN track. As I also explained in my answer, it's the right way forward. It provides a roadmap for how this case is to be handled, so that Saddam Hussein is demolished without the use of military resources. It's just following this map that's the wise attitude. In fact, I believe that if someone should review the debate from earlier today, it is not least SV. For now it is important not to send guarantees to Iraq about what will not happen if he continues to refuse to cooperate. Now the pressure must be put on Saddam Hussein. It's a responsibility that's also on SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e767	There is now a massive build-up in the Gulf, and the war is being prepared by countries like the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia and many others. Red Cross has pointed out that Norway should contribute to humanitarian work in Iraq, where one can make a great effort rather than make military contributions. If it becomes a war, the humanitarian situation in Iraq will go from evil to disaster. It is a paradox if it is to be such that the strong military forces are preparing for war, while countries that are good for humanitarian action are not preparing for war. The question is therefore: has Norway begun to prepare for a humanitarian response in the event of a war in Iraq?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e774	I am pleased that the questioner did not follow up on his previous question. To this question, I would say that I think it is very important that we now do not anticipate that this conflict will be resolved by military means. I think it's very important that we make sure to send that signal that we are now avoiding using military instruments if we get a solution in peace. However, if the worst happens, the questioner can be sure that Norway will also contribute, but we must now ensure that this conflict is resolved without the use of military instruments. That's why I also appealed to SV about how to deal with this in the public debate. It is also a very significant responsibility that lies there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e787	This question, from the representative Siri Hall Arnøy to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be raised by the representative Jørund Leknes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e790	I will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘Any war against Iraq could have a ring-fenced effect on the whole Middle East and could affect the already very tense conflict between Israel and the Palestinian authorities. International initiatives are now urgently needed to find ways of peace in the Middle East and to move on with the establishment of a Palestinian State. What role does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see that Norway can now play in the Middle East?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e799	The government will continue to do what it can to contribute to a peaceful development in the Middle East. In order for such a development to take place, we must do our utmost to find lasting solutions both to the Iraq conflict and to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians. It is tragic that the violence and suffering in the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians continue, and that the attitude of the parties has made the effort to arrive at political solutions largely on the ground rest for over two years. In this difficult situation, the Government has done what it has been able to contribute to a lasting peace settlement. We have been and are active along several lines: we are participating in the international working group on Palestinian reform. We lead the donor country group AHLC and local committees. Norway has called for a rapid AHLC meeting to discuss how to deal with the growing humanitarian and economic crisis on the Palestinian side. We are also in constant contact with the so-called Quartet, consisting of the United States, the EU, the United Nations and Russia, which is leading the international efforts for peace in the Middle East. We hope that the Quartet will decide as soon as possible and start implementing its comprehensive road map for peace, where the goal is two states living in peace alongside. As I said, there is unfortunately little or no progress to track. But despite that and many other challenges, it is important that the international community continues to focus on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e812	I would like to draw the Foreign Minister's attention to the fact that any war against Iraq will undoubtedly lead to an even greater distinction between Western and non-Western countries. That distinction is also very clear between Israel and the Palestinians. If Norway becomes an active party in any war against Iraq, this will lead to even more distance from the Palestinians. For this reason, it would be right for Norway today to adopt a more critical attitude towards the occupying power of Israel. In fact, Ariel Sharon recently said that he was not interested in negotiating with anyone other than the United States about peace in the Middle East, and therefore it will be nearby to ask the Foreign Minister if he is satisfied with the American Middle East policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e822	Let me first say that I am fully sharing Leknes' perception that there may be serious ringing effects of a war in the Middle East. That's why the government has such a pressure to try to resolve that conflict without the use of military instruments, and that's why I hope everyone can now join in and put a pressure on Saddam Hussein. There's some of the key here, and it puts a pressure on all the parties. When it comes to how to proceed in the Middle East, there has been a lot of calm about the elections. The election has now been held, and we have to deal in time with a new government in Israel. It's quite clear that we've said many times before, and probably also have to repeat, that we encourage the United States to put a clearer and clearer pressure on Israel. I want to take this opportunity to repeat what I have said on previous occasions, that it has been continuous on our part. With regard to what Norway is going to do, I would remind you that one of the reasons Norway has had a useful role in the conflict also for the Palestinians is that we have managed to deal with our situation so that we are in dialogue with all parties. I believe in many ways that that role is important to keep in the future. Otherwise you will lose the opportunity to contribute to a peaceful solution, which I think is something we all want, and not least to the two-state solution, which I am absolutely sure we agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e833	I'll follow up. Last night, Ariel Sharon and his Likud party won the parliamentary elections in Israel, and we can count on Sharon continuing as President. On Sunday morning, twelve Palestinians were killed and 51 injured in a large Israeli attack on Gaza. Israel is the state of the world that has broken most UN resolutions, and Israel is still an occupation pact. There is therefore no reason to treat Israel and Palestine equally. We must press Israel harder if we want to be a peaceful solution to the conflict. My question to the Council of State is therefore: is it not time for economic or diplomatic sanctions against the State of Israel?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e842	What's the goal here, and that shows how difficult this conflict is here, is that the outside world has to make two peoples live side by side in security. So the goal is two states. So there might probably be different opinions about the way forward there, but I have to say that I believe the path that is paved by several governments before this, also should be led by this government. This does not mean that we are not clear in some of the matters where we need to be clear and say clearly. The questioner just mentioned the episode that happened this weekend. He has probably seen that I have made a clear statement on this matter, and I also expect the questioner to appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e849	Then we go to question 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e855	We switch themes quite strongly, but equally full of a conflict that is more local. The question to the Minister for Education and Research is: «The Ministry of Education and Research has recently let the Municipality of Oslo take over the teaching responsibility of the students at Minerva secondary school in Oslo. In practice, it means that the UFD has also transferred the employer’s responsibility to teachers who previously taught at Minerva. UFD has confirmed that students who have gone to Minerva in the autumn of 2002 are considered eligible. In view of this, will the Council of State ensure that the outstanding salary of teachers, who have taught approved pupils in the autumn of 2002, is paid?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e864	Minerva high school reported on 7 November 2002 that the school would leave teachers and administration as of 13 November 2002. In order to prevent the students from being completely unskilled during the last weeks before the exam, the department of Oslo asked the municipality to take over responsibility for the teaching of the students at Minerva. I would like to stress that neither the Ministry nor the Municipality of Oslo were legally obliged to do so. For the sake of order, I would also like to make it clear that far from all the students who attended Minerva in the autumn of 2002, Minerva was entitled to state aid. The reporting of students on courses that were not eligible was one of the reasons why the Ministry withdrew the approval of Minerva secondary school. The fact that the Ministry and the Municipality of Oslo took responsibility for the students does not imply, as the question states, that ‘the UFD has also transferred the employer’s responsibility for teachers who had previously taught at Minerva’. The Ministry has asked the Municipality of Oslo to take over the implementation of the teaching of the students for their sakes. However, neither the Ministry nor the Municipality of Oslo has taken over Minerva AS. Former teachers at Minerva, who were temporarily engaged by the Municipality of Oslo after the permit, are in a new and independent employment relationship with the municipality. The wage demands that Minerva's teachers had to have against the school from the time before the leave, will be a matter between the teachers and Minerva AS.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e873	I thank you for the answer, which I am not satisfied with. The background to the problem is not that the school leaves on its own initiative and by its own initiative, but that there is a disagreement related to the number of students and documentation on the number of students following a school curriculum. The consequences of having a discussion with the Department on counting students and documentation of students are that both students and teachers are hit as innocent third parties. In any case, students have been partially taken care of as they have completed their education in another way. The aim of the teachers is not met when the school is standing without the expected support for initial education, support to finance salaries for teachers for completion of education. So they stand back unremunerated because of a discussion about counting students and documentation of students who have followed the teaching. It is a dramatic measure, and if the answer is that the school, through forced desire for bankruptcy, triggers guarantees from the wage guarantee fund, the question of whether the Council of State considers this to be an acceptable procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e882	It is true that the representative of Sortevik stated that the department had withdrawn the school's approval in two letters and demanded a refund of 21,5 million. kr in State aid. Both cases are brought before the Court, and they are dealt with in the Department. Of course, we aim to deal quickly with these complaints. However, I do not find it appropriate to comment on the content of the two cases until they have been processed. It has to be seen a little isolated from the school going to the lay-off, and the education stopped. At that time, the Ministry was not legally obliged to provide the students with another offer, but we took the initiative that they could receive such an offer from the Municipality of Oslo. This does not mean, however, that employers' responsibility for teachers has been assumed, unless an independent agreement has been reached. I do not find any question of bankruptcy to comment on. I'm not familiar with Minerva AS being bankrupt.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e889	I repeat that, fortunately, it belongs to the rare units that the department uses so powerful and dramatic instruments against a private school that it withdraws approval, stops the transfer of funds that form the basis of planned education that students have been invited to do, and actually requires reimbursement of previously transferred funds. I assume that the Council of State has been thoroughly involved in the matter. I will make sure that she believes that the measures taken by the Ministry are in line with the provisions of the Private School Act, that they are in line with the principles of Norwegian administrative law, that they comply with the rules of good practice and that they are in line with good sense in the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e896	I agree with the representative of Sortevik that we should be very happy that such matters are rare. On the other hand, when aid is received from the State, it is usually, and especially in this case, accompanied by legislation and certain criteria to be met in order to receive aid. Then, when these criteria have not been met, we cannot provide support either. It is necessary, as in this case, for private schools receiving substantial public support to maintain legitimacy. I'm sure we'll agree on that. I have, of course, been very careful to ensure that all procedural rules, administrative rules, etc. have been followed to the point and the point. After my assessment, the Ministry has carried out a very thorough examination of the matter, which we will also have of the complaints mentioned. This never prevents such a case from being disputed and brought forward, for example. to the legal entity. It'll always be like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e903	We're going back to question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e916	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e923	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture a question: ‘The production of apple is an important industry for many districts. In particular, this part of fruit cultivation is important for Hardanger, Sogn and parts of Telemark. In a normal crop year, 8000 to 9000 tonnes of Class 1 apple are translated. The results of the EU/EEA events in Christmas 2002 show that the EU will have an increase in the duty-free quota of 2 000 tonnes from 1 May to 30 July. This will result in a strong pressure on Norwegian production. What will the Council of States do to prevent any adverse effects on Norwegian fruit production resulting from this Agreement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e932	Just before Christmas last year, Norway and the European Commission agreed on an agreement under Article 19 of the EEA Agreement on extended trade in agricultural products. The agreement has not yet been formally approved by the parties, but would, if adopted, mean that the EU will have a duty-free import quota of 2000 tonnes of apples in the period from 1 May to 31. July. From the outset, Norway has a global duty-free import quota of 7 000 tonnes of apples in that period. The duty-free quota has been granted for a period outside the Norwegian apple production season and the Norwegian apple market is covered by imports. In the period up to 1 August, the import of apples has been higher than the sum of the previous allowances and the new EU quota. The agreement with the EU thus confers an advantage on the EU over other countries for the export of apples to the Norwegian market until 1 August. However, EU imports will not be replaced by Norwegian production coming on the market later in the autumn. I registered with pleasure that the Norwegian apple harvest was unusually good last year, with large crops and first-class quality fruit. Sales statistics for 2002 also show a significant increase in consumption of Norwegian apples for final consumption compared to the previous year. This, of course, is related to natural conditions, but also shows that Norwegian fruit growers currently work well. This applies not only to quality work but also to the development of new products based on Norwegian fruit. In the Ministry of Agriculture, we are also trying to stimulate such developments, including: through the Value Creation Programme for Food Production, where several projects have been launched for both further processing and marketing of fruit.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e941	I thank the Council of State for your answer. But I'm probably not quite happy. It is true that this comes at a time when Norwegian production has come no further than the earliest phase, but I think this will frame the hall of Norwegian early lay. We know that these early stages have the best price and are a success factor for the apple industry. Unfortunately, I believe that this will be an agreement that will affect the fruit districts, and this is districts that predominately are the framework of pessimism and deportation. The follow-up question is: does the Council of State specifically consider that one can strengthen these vulnerable districts in special ways?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e950	That answer could catch a lot of areas, but if we were to stick to the fruit area, I was in my first answer. We are concerned about how we can strengthen the market situation also for Norwegian fruit. We work, among other things: through the Value Creation Programme to find new markets and opportunities. Just look at the success of fresh Hardangerjuice through the dairy companies. It has become a tremendous success. It's only sold in the season. That means it ended a few days ago, and it has become an exciting new product from the same type of fruit in Hardanger. However, I would like to stress that I believe it is based on incorrect reasoning when it is said that this will have major consequences. We have imports up to 1 August of about 10,000 tonnes. 7000 tonnes are free of import duties. Then there are 3,000 tons of what is there today, on which there have been administrative tariff reductions. It is the 3,000 tonnes already in place, which are replaced by a much simpler way of importing through this agreement with the EU. It does not represent new import apples that will be in competition with Norwegian apples that are on the market a few weeks later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e959	I feel the answer is a trivialization of a problem. Then my final replication becomes more a challenge than a question. When I deal specifically with this industry and these districts, it's because I see them as particularly vulnerable. These districts were on the agenda for not so many days since here in Stortinget – then I think of internal Hardanger. It's so vulnerable, there's so little margins here. I think that it's going to be very little until you create more pessimism and there's going to be more impact in other areas in these districts. I think we should be particularly attentive to this industry and these districts now in these times.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e966	I don't know what problem I was going to minimize. I feel obliged to help Norwegian consumers access apples during the season when Norwegian fruit growers cannot produce apples. Norwegian consumers are entitled to this. It is not open to new volumes to the Norwegian market through what has been done here, but an easier way to take apples into a period where there are no Norwegian apples. Then there's always a certain transition, because apples can be stored a few weeks. But we can rejoice that we have a season behind us where there is a lot of Norwegian apples sold, and where Norwegian apple producers, not least from Hardanger, have managed to produce a great quality. Then I don't think one should use every opportunity to complain that this is bad and difficult, it goes wrong, and everything is just like that in this sector. On the contrary, there is a basis for a lot of optimism, there are good manufacturers that produce top quality. More and more Norwegians should get their eyes up because Norwegian apples are the best in the world. It might also be a message from Stortinget's Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e976	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘An important principle of legal certainty is that the defendant should have his cases dealt with promptly before the courts. More rapid criminal proceedings have been adopted, for example: in the case of a rapid court or of a time limit in cases involving persons under 18 years of age. We experience that matters are postponed due to the absence of the defenders and/or the actorate. What will the Council of State do to speed up proceedings in the judiciary, in particular to introduce clear deadlines from court proceedings to appeals in higher courts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e985	The work on ensuring a faster criminal procedure has been a priority task for several years. In view of the work of two working groups, set up in 1999, a number of changes have been made to the law, instructions and procedures. The amendment of the law of 28 June 2002, which entered into force on 1 October 2002, sets deadlines for the main negotiation and appeal proceedings in cases involving young offenders and in cases where the person in question is the custodian of custody. The main proceedings in such cases shall now, as a general rule, be initiated within six weeks of the case being brought before the tribunal, and within eight weeks of the appeal to the Lawyers' Court being referred to the appeal proceedings. The time-limits are not absolute, so that the main proceedings may be opened later if special circumstances prevent proceedings from taking place within the time-limit. In several cases, the defender wants the case suspended due to his own close review programme. The time limits laid down in the law may therefore lead to the appointment of a new defender, who may take the case within the time limit. Even in cases where such a deadline has not been set, a change of defence may be necessary in order to avoid a material delay in the case. The time-limits also provide for the organisation of State Advocates in such a way that there is at all times a State Advocate available to deal with or act on matters within the time-limit and that the courts must be more flexible in their deliberations. The law also allows police lawyers to act on matters of law, even in the most serious cases. In some cases it may be necessary to avoid a postponement of the case. On the basis of a request from the Stortinget, the Ministry of Justice recently sent a proposal for an extension of the law enforcement powers to police lawyers. The Ministry proposes, inter alia: providing police with increased prosecution powers in criminal matters. This way you will be able to save time, for example. on expeditions between the police and the state attorney, and the prosecutors will have fewer cases to settle. The proposed changes will facilitate more effective criminal proceedings. However, in my view, we should look at the impact of the legislative changes that came into force in the autumn of 2002 and of the increased appropriations for the courts, and consider the proposals for enhanced law enforcement powers for police lawyers before we consider the adoption of new rules on time-limits. The courts, the prosecution authority and the defenders are all responsible for ensuring that criminal proceedings are not unduly exposed. I'm going to follow the situation closely and initiate better cooperation between the court administration, the state attorney, the police directorate and the law firm to ensure a greater pace of criminal proceedings. If this fails, further tightening of the law may be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1000	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and would like to say about legal certainty that we feel that we have a little loose framework in Norway in terms of deadlines. I share the minister's views on that. But both for defendants and for people's common sense of law, it is very important to get a quick trial at the courts. Then it is also very important that the police deliver matters quickly. If you compare Norway with Sweden in relation to two cases — one was the Fadime case in Sweden, and the other was the Azarnia case in Norway — it took 44 days in Sweden before the charges were brought after the criminal offence was committed, while in Norway it took 180 days. This was after the law mentioned by the Minister of Justice had entered into force. In Sweden, it takes eight weeks from the first instance to deal with the case, until the second instance is done if there is an appeal. However, in Norway, this case was started at a second instance after 370 days, i.e. over one year afterwards. This, I think, is bad legal certainty. Will the Minister of Justice ensure that more stringent deadlines are in place in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1009	I have previously participated in following the 1999 investigation teams that are involved. This has been partly carried out under the previous government, but also under the current one. The size has itself laid down legislation which entered into force last year, which is subject to time limits. I have said that I want to initiate cooperation between the different parts of the justice system – let's call it that – to ensure that you have a good flow in the criminal justice chain, and I have also said that I will follow it closely. But I'll probably wait for the practical situation before I come back with other suggestions. I am not reluctant to do so if necessary. In the case of individual cases, good examples can also be found in our country, as well as examples of individual cases that take a long time. The whole idea, however, is that we should make the process – for legal security reasons, as the representative mentioned – as effective as possible. It has been the aim both of legislative changes, of the cooperation I am talking about, and of my intention to follow this process carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1016	I thank you again for the answer. In Frosting Lawyers’ Laws, their own internal procedures have been put in place to speed up court proceedings. Overbooking of cases has been introduced and clear deadlines and targets have been set for the implementation of individual cases in the Court of Justice. This has meant that there are no longer any leftovers in the Court of Justice, and it is exemplary in dealing with cases. It shows that setting clear deadlines, setting clear targets, is very appropriate and helps to ensure legal certainty for individuals. Representatives of the Court of Justice point out that proceedings would be even faster if the possibility of a police investigation could be extended. The Ryssdal Committee of 1988, 15 years ago, pointed this out in a report to the Norwegian Grand Prix. Will Dørum, the Minister of Justice, ensure that in the future you can also look into it and take that matter up again?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1021	There is no doubt that, among other things. the experience of Frostating and other courts has been useful for the investigations that have taken place on the effectiveness of the criminal proceedings. Now it is the organisation of the courts, and here the representative points to court management, among other things, now falls within the administration of the Court of Justice. It is independent, but therefore it is also important that there be good contact and dialogue between the administration of the Court and others responsible for the criminal proceedings. That's why I said I'd initiate that collaboration, and I also expressed myself to it when the court administration was solemnly opened in Trondheim. When it comes to the last part of the question, we have, among other things, At the request of the Stortinget, sent at the hearing a proposal for enhanced prosecution competence for police lawyers, precisely to contribute to speeding up job creation from farms and to improve case resolution in terms of time use. So I feel that we have followed the representative for a longer time, but the representative is quite right that this must be followed constantly. Here, there's always something new to learn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1031	I will ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘According to NRK Telemark on 16 January d.o.k.a. the Rjukan fire service has been asked to make a call-out to check for a possible intrusion. The reason is that the police have to reorganize and save money. The police at Rjukan no longer pull out of the fire reports at night. Does the State Council believe it is right that the Telemark police can ask the fire department to carry out regular police work to carry out reorganisations and savings in the police?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1040	Information on this incident has been obtained from the Directorate of Police. The Telemark Police District Operational Centre was given on 23 December 2002 at 9.30 a.m. 23.43 message that a light came on to be turned off again after approx. two minutes at Rjukan primary school. There were no people on site. It was then asked questions to the fire service if they had a car in the area and had an opportunity to investigate the relationship. The fireman reported that they had no one in the area and therefore could not check the place. After talking with the Rjukan backup service, the police decided that it was not necessary to make their own phone calls. There was, as it appears, no report of burglary, and no person was observed on the spot. It has also not been found in retrospect that there has been an intrusion into the school. In view of the fact that the school is municipal property, the police found it possible to contact a municipal security guard to conduct such a survey instead of notifying the principal or other employees of the school in the municipality at this time of the day. Thus, the enquiry has no connection with the economy of the police district or with the general reorganisation of the police. The Operational Centre controls the operational service in the police district and will in most cases pass on a message to the police on-site. The local police are best aware of the situation in their own district and will assess, on a case-by-case basis, whether the patrol is going to the site or whether to call out. The police will in most cases move out on notification of a fire, but also for this type of incident, the police will make an assessment based on the nature of the notification. The fire department and the police in Telemark have very good cooperation as a need-to-know. I perceive the police's enquiry to the fire department as a request to investigate the situation if the fire department had operational personnel out there, not to make a call-out instead of the police. In my view, this must be accepted in the specific situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1051	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Whatever the specific background of this incident, it is that in Rjukan you have received a significantly worse police service than you had. There is one police officer who has been at home at night, and it is this policeman who has to assess whether a call is important enough to ensure that it is economically and budgetaryly sound to move out. The population is concerned about this, and it creates increased insecurity in the community. Representatives of police officers are also concerned that reorganisations and savings reduce the police’s ability to be a visible and integrated part of the community and an important player in the prevention work of the community, not least among children and young people. The question is then: does the Council of State share this concern, and what will the Council of State do to prevent any reorganisation of the police force from providing a worse police service around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1058	This was a two-part comment. First of all, it went on the specific event. It I found reason to go into, and as I said, it had nothing to do with the economy of the police district or the general reorganisation of the police. So you had the choice of talking to someone who could be present, who was at work, and notifying the principal or other employees of the school. In general, which was the second part of the question/comment, police reform is under way. It is under evaluation in 2003, and will finally be evaluated in 2004. It's too early to draw conclusions from it. The intention of the big business has been to get more operational police out of the reform, and it is clear that the police district is following this. I do, too, as the Council of State, and so has the Storting made through all the assumptions attached to the 2003 budget. Here we share the view that the reform will end with a final result that gives good value to the money, and it's my job to take care of it. I mean it myself, and Stortinget has given me a clear assignment in that regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1065	I thank you again for the answer, and I am pleased that the Council of State will keep up with developments. Now it is the case that an evaluation should be carried out. It's already going on, I understand, and it's going to end in 2004, as the Council of State said. I then consider it seaworthy that both the police and police officers' organisations are included in this evaluation. But at least equally important is, as I see it, that municipalities, communities, organisations working with children and young people, and the general population are given the opportunity to express their experiences of the reorganisation that is now taking place. Will the Council of State ensure that users, in order to use such an expression, of police services are given a broad place in this evaluation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1070	As far as police reform is concerned, there has always been close and good cooperation between the police and those who have their work in the police, so I think that will continue with this reform. It is one of the keys to the reform that those involved should feel that they are involved, and that through the reform, which is not only about reorganising but also increasing their competence, they should feel that they are getting currency for it. With regard to the practical way in which the evaluation is carried out, I have not yet been in it, but I shall clearly take with me the views expressed by the representative in his comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1081	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: «In the newspaper Hamar Arbeiderblad of 23 January this year we can read that the Hamar police wanted to take care of someone for up to one week, but had to release them because the nearest available prison cell was 231 miles from Hamar. Is the Council of State satisfied with this situation, and what does the Council of State want to do if that is not the case?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1090	I am aware of the situation and work intensively on both immediate and longer-term measures. It is an objective that custody officers are transferred to prison on the same day the sentence is dismissed. First priority is given to the custody of prisons, then long judges and violent and violent judges. However, the need for parking places varies from week to week. Over the last year, demand for custody places has increased, while prisons have had very high capacity utilisation. This has sometimes led to detention in prisons remaining in police detention beyond 24 hours, and, as the Hamar example shows, detention centres are released because there is a lack of detention places. However, in the current year’s budget, the government has put forward a strategy for the expansion of prison sites until 2007, to which the Stortinget has joined. Already during the year, new Kingswings prison will reach a capacity of 110 places, including some duplication and the department of old Kingswings prison. Trondheim prison has been expanded by 11 places, the ski prison has increased its capacity by 6 places, and during the year Ålesund prison will reopen 3 places. Furthermore, during the year, Ullersmo will increase its capacity by 10 places. In addition, 40 places in Oslo prison, which has been outlawed by the police, will be returned to Oslo prison. This will help improve the situation. In addition, the current range of measures that can contribute to increased prison capacity is assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1101	I thank you for your answer. I hear that the Council of State will continue to consider different measures that can contribute to increasing prison capacity. It's interesting to hear more about this. There may be both short-term and long-term measures. Is e.g. the purchase of places from a private operator interesting to the Council of State? Could it be interesting with modules for shorter or longer storage times – or something else? I assume that we all agree that transporting people 231 miles one way is the wrong use of both time and resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1108	Now, all the spaces we have at our disposal and plan to have at our disposal in 2003 are within the budgetary framework adopted by the Stortinge, and within the framework of these, the aim is to significantly increase capacity during this year, as I have explained. But because we've got the development in custody places that the representative has taken up, and that I've been aware of for some time, I can give as an example that we were assigned to six prison cells earlier than we had planned to get in the ski prison just before Christmas. I am now reviewing the practical situation in other institutions. And, of course, I have to have a case-by-case approach on this, which Stortinget will, of course, be properly briefed when we get that far. Among the questions I'm considering is whether duplications within the framework we have for health, environment and safety can be increased. Finally, I would just like to comment that the prison cell that was available 231 miles from Hamar was actually used, because that was all sorts of reason why it was to be used, even if it was a long journey out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1117	I thank you for the answers I have received, and I thank you for the increased number of places. But I don't know if that helps enough. I don't think that helps enough, because only in the North-East region there are 500 people in the queue. There are 2 500 people in the pay queue in Norway, after the numbers I have, and last year the payroll grew by more than 50 pst. compared with 2001. It helps relatively little with a few places here and a few places where when the queue grows enormously. I guess that's the big problem, that people are waiting to get in.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1122	The compensation queue at the last public census, the third quarter of last year, is approx. 2 500, as the representative said. There's a lot of short judges here. It is then important to be aware of different measures that can prevent the growth of the housing queue. Firstly, there is the active use of community punishment, which has been discussed several times in the Storting. Secondly, it is to make available new spaces, both closed cells and open spaces. What was the starting point for the representative's questions is custody, and custody is closed cells. When we then run as high capacity as we do, and we get a development in custody that is a consequence of the legislation, it is my duty to go into it and find practical solutions. As I have pointed out in previous answers, we will, among other things: look at duplications within the system we have, and we want to promote action. One of the measures I want to look at is whether it is possible in time to speed up the release of the 40 cells that have been lent in Oslo prison to Oslo Police District. It could mean a lot, not least here in the East – as the representative addressed his question and his comments to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1133	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘The teeth health is deteriorating in pre-school children. Nevertheless, several county councils require the public dental service to give priority to adult paying patients who can pay for themselves, rather than children, because of this. the economy. Now that children are down-prioritised for the benefit of adults who can pay for themselves, this will lead to poorer dental health for the next adult generation. What will the Council of State do to remedy the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1142	The representative Hedstrøm claims that county councils depriorize the offer to children for the benefit of adults who can pay for it and that it affects the dental health of children. It is true, as the representative Hedstrom points out, that the dental health of young children has deteriorated in the last two to three years. There is no explanation as to what might be the causes of this change. It is not necessarily such that the performance requirements of the county council are directly related to the deterioration of the dental health of young children. Children and young people up to the age of 18 are entitled to the necessary dental care under the Law on Dental Services. Each year the counties report figures for their offers. Per. Today we have statistics that are valid until 2001. It shows, among other things: the number of children and young people who received a regular offer increased from 970,000 in 2000 to 990,000 in 2001. Around Easter hours there will be figures for 2002. The county council shall provide children with adequate dental care. What is contained in a concept of necessity and safety is first and foremost up to the definition of dental care in county municipalities. Over the course of several years, the improvement in children’s and young people’s dental health has led to a reduction in the use of resources by county municipalities for these groups. The example here is that many children and young people are called in less frequently than each calendar year for examination and control. As a result, resources have been released in such a way that older people, long-term ill people and disabled people have received a better offer. It is up to the supervisory authorities locally to assess whether county re-priorities result in an offer which is not within the scope of the legal requirements and which then addresses this with the county council. Where appropriate, the need for additional supervision of the dental services of counties will be addressed by the Ministry of Health with the State Health Inspectorate when more recent data are available. The causes of the deterioration in the dental health of young children may be related to conditions outside the dental care. This may include, inter alia: relate to dietary habits, the consumption of sugary drinks, the hygiene and toothpaste routines of parents with fluorantan cream, etc. The special thing is that this deterioration is not recorded in our neighboring country. The Ministry of Health has therefore asked the Social and Health Directorate to continue its work in this field. I have also proposed a number of measures in the recently submitted St.meld. No 16 on public health. My main concern is related to those parts of the public dentistry where there is significant dental leave. I have therefore set up a working group that has been tasked with discussing and proposing different instruments to achieve a more appropriate distribution of dentists and dentists in both the public and private sectors. A more appropriate division of tasks between dentists and dentists and appropriate cooperation between the public and private sectors is also part of the mandate of this working group. Proposals for instruments may be both of a legal and non-judicial nature. The working party shall have its term of office until 1 June of this year. After a consultation round, I will consider the proposals and the comments of the hearing bodies and promote the necessary proposals for the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1159	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As he informs us, of course, there may be several reasons why dental health gets worse, especially in pre-school children. But I've got the impression, by contacting dentists and the Dental Association, that it's right that adult treatment is now given priority, and that it gives reduced resources to the free clientele. This is very worrying, because it's an old-fashioned way of doing dental treatment. Prevention is important in this area, as in other areas of health. The 2003 state budget comments state that the dental care of 5-year-olds has had a negative development. And not enough: the health authorities are concerned and will do something about it, and they refer to the Health Inspectorate of the State in 1999 in their comments. This is the guide called ‘Tenner for life’. We have also received a new big message, no. 16, Recipe for a healthier Norway. It's the Social and Health Directorate that's going to follow up on this. In view of the situation we are now experiencing, and the fact that children get poorer dental health, it is important that the Health Department now concentrate on doing something about this and follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1168	As the representative Hedstrøm referred to, several of the documents I have submitted to the Stortinget recently refer to some of the measures we are taking in relation to this work. I also mentioned the working group to look at the actual coverage of professionals. On the basis of the figures we get for 2002 in the spring, I would like to discuss with the State Health Authority whether there is a basis for specific supervision to see whether it is actually like some claims, including the representative Hedstrom here today, that there has been a down-priorityisation of the offer to children, to the detriment of children's dental health. In this case, it is a down-priority that is not in line with good principles of public health and prevention, as this government stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1173	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. In the work he will now follow up, it is important to look at the counties and municipalities where you really succeed. I refer to the municipality of Øksne in Northern Ireland, where there was an accumulation of treatment needs, but where priority was given to this area, to health centres involved and to dental care on the agenda. Now you've come up to date. Dental resources have been released to the free clientele. So you start on the right side with prevention and get up to date, and then you can do something about the adult clientele. This becomes the right prophylactic and economical for each county. So this is probably something I'm counting on the Council of State thinks is a dangerous way to look at the work to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1180	Let me briefly confirm that I believe that preventive action should be taken. It is also important that the weak groups in society receive the dental care they require. The example that the representative Hedstrom here mentions, I want to study in more detail. It sounds like an example of follow-up. In that case, we shall ensure the dissemination of the good experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1189	I have a question for the Minister of Health: ‘It has to do with it. recent accidents have focused on the lack of lift in many of today’s ambulance helicopters. This means that it is not possible to use these satisfactorily in addition to the rescue helicopters in the event of an accident. The costs of installing and training in the use of a lift are not high. Will the Council of State require all ambulance and medical helicopters to have a lift, in order to enable them to complement the emergency services in the event of an accident?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1198	The primary target of the air ambulance shall be seriously ill or damaged patients requiring emergency medical treatment. The air ambulance service has as a secondary task to assist the Main Rescue Centre in facilitating search and rescue operations. Due to shorter response times than for the rescue service, the air ambulance helicopter may initiate the search while awaiting assistance from the rescue service. Ambulance helicopters are currently using fixed ropes for operations related to surface rescue in non-residential terrain and in sea and water. However, more advanced rescue requires special equipment or competence and should continue to be provided by the rescue services. In connection with the follow-up of St.meld. No 44 for 2000-2001 Emergency helicopter service in the future, the Ministry of Justice is now working on the introduction of an attendance watch for rescue helicopter staff. The introduction of the bystander means that the response time requirement for the rescue helicopters is reduced from 60 to 15 minutes and that the rescue service will be in the air much faster than today. Air ambulance services are currently operating with 11 helicopters and two backup helicopters. Several of today’s ambulance helicopters are not dimensioned or arranged for the installation of a lift, so that the costs of the introduction of a lift into the air ambulance service will be significant. Today we have three helicopters that can be upgraded by lift, and the investment costs amount to approx. One million. kr per. helicopter. If necessary, the remaining helicopters must be replaced or upgraded significantly. The introduction of a lift will also entail additional costs by extending the crew concept from three to four persons. Today, the air ambulance helicopters have a crew of three – pilot, rescuer and doctor. Air traffic legislation requires a certified system operator to be able to handle lift operations. On this basis, I do not intend to apply for a lift on ambulance helicopters at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1209	I have a follow-up question. We just had a loss outside of Brønnøysund. The reason why the crime didn't get a worse outcome than what it got, that one man lost his life, was that they quickly got help. Most of the crew would have lost their lives if they had had to wait for rescue helicopters from Bodø or south. The reason they saved their lives was that there was a helicopter from the Norne field with a lift that could fly directly out to the boat and thus rock people. Is it so to understand that there is a price to be paid for what a human life will cost, when one has simple means and the Council of State can demand that ambulance helicopters have a lift and can contribute to the rescue helicopter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1216	In my first answer, I explained the relatively comprehensive approach that needs to be taken if the air ambulance helicopters are to be given an extended task in relation to the task they have today. I also showed that Stortinget has decided in Innst. S. No 156 for 2001-2002 the introduction of an bystander for personnel in the rescue helicopter service who will perform rescue helicopters, arranged for this type of service, in order to have a response time of up to 15 minutes. I believe that the grip just responds to the need that the representative Bastesen has pointed out, which will respond to it in a better and more appropriate way than giving the air ambulance an extended task.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1223	I do not accept the answer at all. It's a long county I represent, and I live in, and it takes about. an hour by helicopter from Bodø to Brønnøysund – and the same southwards. The smallest government council could do was to deploy ambulance helicopters with a lift in locations located between the rescue helicopters bases. It must not be that it is the price to decide whether to save life or not. We know very well that the Storting has ordered the reaction time for the rescue helicopters to be reduced. But flight time is essential, and the time from an accident to recovery can take place is essential. An ambulance helicopter with a lift stationed between the rescue helicopters bases would address the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1232	In any case, you have to have fixed bases for the air ambulance helicopters, as you have it for the rescue helicopters. The base structure we now have for the air ambulance, the Stortinget has recently taken a decision on the emergency message, and that's what I'm thinking. It will always be about an interaction between these services, and as I explained, air ambulance helicopters have a secondary task of assisting in facilitating search and rescue operations. They're still going to have to have that. The improvement in relation to the priority rescue service, which is now being worked on, is on hand for personnel in the rescue helicopter service, which will lead to a significant improvement in relation to the current situation. I cannot therefore agree that these rescue tasks are not prioritised by the Government and the majority of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1242	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘There are several important elements that support the stationing of ambulance helicopters in the Mjøs area with 250000 inhabitants, but the main argument is flight time. You know that it's the first 10 to 20 minutes that are critical. With today's offer, you have to collect helicopters from Dombås or Lørenskog. Had the helicopter been in the Mjøs area, you would have had a flight time of no more than 15 minutes, which is half the time of the day. Will the Council of State establish a base in the Mjøs area to save lives?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1251	Norway has one of the world’s most advanced and medically-skilled air ambulance services. The primary target group of the air ambulance service shall be seriously ill and injured patients requiring emergency medical treatment, in accordance with agreed priority guidelines. With our country's geography and housing patterns, the service is also an effective contribution to balancing differences in the availability of specialised services in hospitals. In the context of the hospital reform, the air ambulance service was reorganised and is now part of regional health businesses. The service has become an integral part of the overall ambulance and other healthcare services. It was also one of the objectives when Stortinget dealt with the emergency message. In the governance document of regional health companies, I have asked regional enterprises to carry out a review of the organisation of the entire emergency medical chain. The review shall take place in the light of planned structural measures and changes in the division of tasks in the region and focus on ensuring the adequate provision of emergency medical services to the population. Health East made a significant change in its corporate structure at the turn of the year. In extending this change, the new inland health undertaking shall submit a plan for the allocation of functions and tasks by the end of March. Future requirements and dimensioning and organisation of the emergency medical treatment chain are part of this work. Air ambulance services are an important emergency medical resource in Norway. Ambulance helicopters shall have a maximum response time of 15 minutes throughout the day. In practice, helicopters may move out within 5 to 10 minutes of the daytime alarm and after approximately 5 to 10 minutes. 15 minutes a night. A 1998 activity report shows that for emergency missions, the call-out time, i.e. the time interval from the alarm received to the patient, on average 27 minutes for the normal medical helicopters and 63 minutes for the rescue helicopters. The Mjøs area, which this is about, is an area of relatively high population density. The car ambulance service is the primary emergency medical resource in this area, and the majority of the population will actually be reached by car within a period of 15-20 minutes. This is within the target set in the emergency message. However, there has been an increasing pressure on air ambulance resources, including in the eastern region, and there is now an assessment in the Social and Health Directorate in the context of a pilot project in 2002 with an additional helicopter at the base of Lørenskog. The Directorate will submit its assessment to the Ministry for the Summer. It should also be mentioned that in the Air Ambulance Committee’s setting up proposals were made for changes in base structure, including: it was proposed to move the ambulance helicopter base from Dombås to Lillehammer. However, the proposal to move the base was not continued in the emergency message, and the Storting agreed to continue the bases as the pattern was already. As I have explained, investigations are in progress in several areas relating to the dimensioning and organisation of the emergency medical chain, and I do not want to go on the basis that is now available for the creation of new ambulance helicopter bases in Norway, nor in the area of concern asked by the representative Nistad.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1268	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I was very pleased that a review of the structure was being carried out, and that it was to be submitted before the end of March. I have to say that is done quickly and well, and I am very pleased with it. So the government takes up that there's a very good car ambulance service here. Now it is the car ambulance that has put this on the agenda, plus Gjøvik Hospital. They say it's not satisfactory as it is, because the flight time from Dombås is 45 minutes and a half hour from Lørenskog. At Lørenskog, a helicopter has been in use for six months. 2 in operation as a test scheme. Could the Council of State imagine that the helicopter, which is likely to stay on Lørenskog according to the plans that are today, is instead being placed in the Mjøs area, so that we get a solid base there?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1275	I think it's important to be clear that the air ambulance service is a precious service. Any decisions on the establishment of bases must be based on a wide range of considerations. It is important to have both a resource perspective and an assessment of the benefits of that service in relation to alternative services in order to be able to offer the best possible range of services to the population as a whole. Having said that, I have already notified in my first answer that with the background of the experiment with an additional helicopter at the base of Lørenskog an evaluation will be carried out. I would like to await the Social and Health Directorate's recommendation on this matter before going further with the matter. But I want to remind you that establishing a new base is a much bigger question than acquiring a new helicopter, because there's a lot to do with a base. And I have no basis for going into a different base structure than the one that was then clarified after the treatment Stortinget has recently had of the emergency message.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1282	I thank you for your answer. Now I am also aware that it is expensive to build a new base, but after all, several of the hospitals in the Mjøs area already have a helicopter landing site. They also have people in hospitals, and they have a good car ambulance service that wants to be relieved. But I think what the Council of State says is a little bit suspicious and will ask if he wants to set a smaller amount of money, which it might cost to set up such a base, to save some lives. I think it was a little bit daring, to say it. Frankly, did the Council of State mean it that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1289	No, it didn't mean the council. It was the representative Nistad who put it that way. And he can go back in Stortingstidende and investigate what I really said. I absolutely believe that we must have a very good and optimal air ambulance service and ambulance service in Norway. And we're going to have a good emergency medical service to save lives in the important minutes where it's actually possible to save most lives. However, it does not exempt us from considering the resource priorities we always face in healthcare. There's nothing that only applies in this area. In all areas of health care, we face the type of choice and dilemmas in a priority context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1296	Question 15 will be answered later. Question 16 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1304	‘We have received many enquiries from people who are rehabilitating and medical rehabilitation. They have come from the new year into a desperate economic situation and have to go a hard way to the social office. Some give up their plans and seek permanent disability. As early as April 2002, a unanimous increase called for a review of the arrangements to ensure that no one was in an unsustainable situation. How far has the evaluation come, and when can these despondent people expect proposals that can help them?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1311	With effect from 1 January 2002, a comprehensive conversion of the calculation rules for rehabilitation and back-up payments was carried out. The proposal for conversion was presented under the Stoltenberg government. In the past, these benefits were calculated as pensions. In view of the fact that there are short-term benefits provided for a period prior to returning to work, the new rules were designed to bring about greater similarities with the other short-term benefits of popular interest. The main features are that the benefit is measured on the basis of pensionable income the year before it was reduced, or the average of the last three years if this results in a higher amount. Good information has been given to the recipients. All current cases were informed on the introduction of the reform of the new legislation and transitional rules. Persons who were still in the rehabilitation scheme before the turn of the year 2002/2003 and were to continue to receive the benefit under the derogation were provided with personal information from the Rikstrøgdeverket, so that individuals could plan their economy in the future. The new rules have now been in place for a year for new cases since 1 January 2002. The other cases have been subject to the transitional rules and will apply to reintroduction recipients out of the reintroduction period. For the elderly, the new rules have been in place for four weeks and most cases are expected to end during the year. In spring 2002, the Ministry of Labour and Administration reviewed the new calculation rules for benefits under vocational rehabilitation in accordance with the Storting decision. The evaluation is summarised in St. prp. No 1 for 2002–03, and shows that most of them were positive. A transitional period was granted and work is in progress on the evaluation of the child supplements. The transitional period implies that it is possible to have some work without the re-routing money being graduated and also to continue to receive household support out of the re-routing period. In Ot.prp. No 102 for 2001-2002 it is also proposed to increase the minimum amount to 1.8 G. When the 2003 state budget was dealt with just before Christmas, the majority of the population asked for a new evaluation of the recovery rules. This will be followed up by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1322	I thank you for your answer. It is true that there was a majority in favour of the conversion of these rules, and that this was promoted by the government of Stoltenberg. However, what was revealed when these rules were to be implemented was that they had a number of unforeseen consequences. It is in view of the fact that we asked for a review and a further review of the budget. It turns out that when the rules come into force, we again receive the same types of enquiries and that there are several applicants who are asking for disability instead of following a plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. Based on our policies in terms of an inclusive working life, this is almost a failure statement. And the question is, how quickly will the Minister of Social Affairs get a think about the inclusive working life in place so that you don't feel that people who want to have a rehab plan are actually forced to go on disability?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1333	As I said in my main response, we have already had one evaluation. It came in St. prp. point 1. It was also pointed out that we should have a job in which to assess, among other things, the child supplements. Now the budget has only worked for four weeks. Of course, we will follow up on what was adopted during the budgetary procedure before Christmas. It's too soon to be fixed when the evaluation comes, but we'll come back to Stortinget as soon as it's available. I understand the representative's concern over schemes that work towards first priority, to facilitate inclusion in the labour market – where I fully share the representative's thinking. I have also noted the views of the representative, because it would be natural for us to include them in the evaluation that we come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1340	I understand that one plans to come back with such an evaluation ‘as soon as it is available’. I want to stress the importance of this happening very quickly. These are people who experience a very difficult situation every day, and one cannot have too much patience on their behalf. The impatience of these who are in a difficult situation, feeling, I hope that the Council of State takes seriously, and that one therefore very quickly returns to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1345	The government will return to the Storting as soon as the evaluation is available. I would remind you that the budget has worked for four weeks. We'll do the work as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1353	This question, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1356	I ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The narcotics undergoing medical rehabilitation with methadone, Subutex or other medications experience a regulatory approach to follow-up, such as square and often impracticable. There are wide variations in the responses given in relation to the individual abuser in the absence of follow-up of control measures. Is there a standardised regulatory framework for control procedures for drug-assisted treatment of drug addicts, and if not, can the Council of State envisage developing a single regulatory framework?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1365	There are legislation on medically assisted rehabilitation in Norway in its own circular from the Ministry. For the treatment of Inst. S. No 325 for 2000–2001 joined the new guidelines as presented in the revised national budget. Recruitment and supply of medicinal products for use in medically assisted rehabilitation are governed by Regulation No 27 April 1998. 455 on the requisition and supply of medicinal products from pharmacy § 2-1 cf. Section 8-4, second paragraph. Medicinal products can only be obtained from individual patients as part of medically assisted rehabilitation when they are involved in approved measures. The treatment structure, organisation and responsibilities are regulated in the Ministry’s own circulars, references I-35/2000 and I-33/2001. As regards the question of the control of those involved in the LAR measures, I can refer to circular I-35/2000, where it is mentioned in section I. 8 Print criteria, is written: ‘Where illegal drugs and/or addictive drugs are being traded or suspected, and where violence and/or threats of violence are being used, the client shall be printed, unless this would appear to be a disproportionate response. Sustained alcohol and/or drug abuse in addition to treatment, cheating on urine samples or drug consumption, lack of access to agreements/request of medicinal products and refusal of cooperation in relation to agreements, legislation and/or action plan may result in insufficient treatment effect. Such conditions may therefore provide a basis for printing.’;» In other words, the printing criteria open up to a certain degree of discretion, and the practice of response to the follow-up to control measures may therefore vary between the approved measures, the regional centres, and the different patients. Medically assisted rehabilitation is an area the department follows closely. This includes the need for regulatory adaptation in the light of experience gained in medically assisted rehabilitation, both nationally and internationally. As notified in St. Prp. No 1, for the current fiscal year, I will undertake an independent evaluation of medically assisted rehabilitation. Such an evaluation could provide important information as a basis for any adaptations and changes to the legislation we have in this area today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1385	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. I receive relatively often feedback from drug addicts during medically assisted rehabilitation that complains about heavy-duty control routines, which many have problems following up. In particular, the delivery of urine samples, which are to be carried out in special locations, is often very far from the drug addict’s place of residence. Another problem is the different practice of responders against infringements of control measures. Some get one warning, some get two alerts, some get three alerts and some do not get any warning at all before they are thrown out of the treatment line. There is also a large difference between the length of time that is assumed to be out of treatment before being reinstated for treatment. My question to the Minister of Health is: Should not the medically assisted rehabilitation now be transferred to the patient's permanent staff, who normally takes responsibility for their patient also in this treatment context?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1396	I am of the general opinion that healthcare, both at a specialised level and at a primary level, should take greater and clearer responsibility for health care for drug users. With regard to the arrangements for medically assisted rehabilitation, it has been built up through the regional centres in a relatively short time. There has been a relatively rapid build-up, and I have seen a clear need to now evaluate the way this works, and I want it to be an external evaluation. In this regard, I would like to take with me the feedback that I have also received, on different practices, on how the exercise of judgement works in relation to drug addicts when it comes to issues of printing, which the representative of Alvheim here is involved. But I cannot draw the conclusion to that evaluation right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1403	I thank the Minister of Health again for the answer. I am aware that some of this problem will come back when the Stortinget receives a drug report 2, the practical follow-up to the drug reform. However, until then, as far as possible, control measures should be organised that can be observed by the drug addicts, so that these patients are not subjected to additional stress in addition to the load they already have as human and patient, with, for example, too long transport to deliver urine samples. And if they're thrown out of the scheme, the motivation to go back can be seriously weakened by such a random practice of the scheme. I would once again recommend to the Minister of Health that, as far as practicable, these arrangements apply in relation to the individual patient, in relation to the treatment he is receiving, and the follow-up to the treatment, in order to be met in a somewhat more humane way in the treatment unit, including from the point of view of these patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1412	I must remind you that the purpose of the control procedures established is to ensure that the patient, in this case the drug addict, has the greatest possible effect and benefit of the rehabilitation facility. To the extent that it emerges from solutions that are one-sidedly perceived as stones to the burden on those involved, it is clear that it should be looked at more closely. What I am particularly concerned about is that to the extent that it can be shown that there is a different handling of this legislation, it should be corrected, and we will have a special focus on that in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1420	«The government has announced that they are giving priority to the fight against homelessness. Nevertheless, there is no plan for achieving the objective of no homeless person. Can the Council of State guarantee that all municipalities applying for support for the construction of dwellings or for the implementation of other projects against homelessness are granted their applications?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1427	I just want to say that I am pleased that the representative Holmås has found back to the Questionnaire this Wednesday. A safe and good housing is not only a good in itself but also a prerequisite for participating in other welfare goods such as education, participation in the labour market and social work. The fight against homelessness is therefore high on the Government's agenda. The government, together with seven of its metropolitan municipalities and three non-governmental organisations, is engaged in four-year development work which, through the testing of various housing and follow-up measures, will provide a basis for national action plans to prevent and combat homelessness. The government will provide a preliminary presentation of this basis in the housing notification submitted to the Storting for the autumn. The challenge is to obtain comprehensive solutions where housing and service services are linked. We must contribute both to providing the individual with a satisfactory and permanent dwelling and at the same time provide the basis for a follow-up that enables the individual to keep his or her dwelling. With regard to the provision of housing, during the last years of granting loans and grants, the House Bank has given priority within the available frameworks to good projects for the homeless. The house bank financed 223 dwellings last year, and statistics show directly that the homeless were the target population. In addition, the House Bank financed over 500 new homes for social purposes. It is reasonable to assume that a large part of these dwellings are also allocated to homeless persons. However, the main emphasis of the work on providing the homeless with housing is well under way within the existing housing stock in the municipalities. We don't have exact figures on the number of homeless people allocated each year to a dwelling within the existing housing stock. Better reporting is being done in this area. Residenceless people are also one of the main target groups in the action plan against poverty, as the Government presented in October last autumn. It is proposed here, among others. strengthening and developing follow-up services in housing for the homeless in the metropolitan communities. The majority of the population joined the Government's proposal for measures for 2003 in the context of the budgetary procedure in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1440	Thanks for the answer. That's how we get what the government is doing in this area. That's why I'm asking. As the Council of State says, it's reported, and there's a project that's homeless. We know this. But to my question. It makes sense — and the Government speaks of them as being important — to work for more efficient use of resources in the public sector. According to the location of the Housing Committee, social support spends DKK 2.4 billion annually for people to live. Much of this goes to day-night nightlife places, because there are only temporary housing social services in individual municipalities have a duty to provide people with. My question is, wouldn't it be better to invest more money in fixed dwellings, in permanent dwellings, so as to save money and at the same time reduce the costs for municipalities? And wouldn't it be wise to make a plan to do just this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1449	The government has a plan. It may appear that the representative is more concerned with the plan than with the content. So the government has a plan where we work systematically, broadly and globally to ensure that homeless people get housing. We have Project homeless in cooperation with the House Bank. There, funds are allocated. We have a partnership with seven of the largest municipalities in the country, where this is the main theme. And it's actually granted and financed hundreds of homes, as I mentioned in my initial answer. In addition, some of the homeless people need help to live. Here the Government has strengthened the follow-up service. We also come back to the big news of housing policy for the autumn to sum up what has happened in this area. Furthermore, we have looked at standards in relation to the hospital, to ensure that the quality is maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1458	I noticed that the Council of State did not respond properly to my question. That's how I understood it. I'm absolutely concerned with the content, and not just by making a plan. But the point is that when you make, for example, The old-age plan for the expansion of dwellings had quite specific measures for the number of dwellings to be achieved. One of my follow-up questions to the Council of State is: why don't you have quite specific measures to achieve a sufficient number of homes, to solve this problem properly? That's the one. The second is that from some cities it is now reported that the proceedings in Husbanken are too long. From Tønsberg it is reported that the municipality will not be able to process quickly enough its applications for the purchase of dwellings that you want to use for this particular purpose. One of the reasons might be that there is too little money. Another reason is that the Husbanken's arrangements are not well enough arranged except to build dwellings, and not well enough arranged for municipalities to buy dwellings on a private housing market, which is actually more reasonable to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1467	I hear that the representative Holmås has several considerations and several questions. As far as I am aware, there are no municipalities that have received a refusal to build housing for the homeless. According to the information I have, the framework for both loans and housing grants has actually been sufficient. As I said in my main response, the Government is concerned about this issue both through Project homeless and through the poverty plan. And as far as I remember, SV has also joined these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1480	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Industry the following questions: ‘The power-processing industry claims that one of the main challenges for future existence in Norway is a better domestic power balance. The power situation is now dramatic, and there are no political signals from the Government that this will change in the future. On the contrary. What is the opinion of the Council of State on the future development of the power-processing industry in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1489	The representative of Klungland expresses concern for the powerful industry and points out that one of the most important challenges for future existence in Norway is a better domestic power balance. Klungland is asking for my assessment of future developments for the powerful industry. Power-intensive industries have, have and will have a central position in Norwegian business and build on sound technological skills. This industry was built at a time when Stortinget and not the market set the electricity price. Since then, the industry has been offered power contracts under government terms several times. The last time was in March 1999 in connection with St.prp. No 52 for 1998-99, About State aid industrial contracts and leases. These power agreements were based on market conditions, including: as a consequence of EEA legislation. The previously concluded State Power Contracts are phased out in the years up to 2010. So over to today's situation. The filling level in the warehouses in summer was above normal. However, the claims for the power plants in the autumn of 2002 were the lowest ever recorded. At the same time, we got an early winter with colder weather than usual in the largest consumer areas. This has led to prices being at a very high level. While power consumption in power-intensive industries is relatively stable, the rest of the electricity consumption in Norway is increasing. In a normal year, Norway is currently dependent on imports of around 6 TWh per year. years. NVE expects the import demand to double by 2010 even with the Government’s 3 TWh wind target by this year. Norwegian companies have plans for transmission cables for power from the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Increased integration between a Norwegian hydropower-based system and the European system based on thermal energy will increase security of supply. Furthermore, a concession has been granted for the development of gas power plants which together could generate 12 TWh of new power. With today's forecasts for the Nordic electricity prices in the coming years, none of these projects are yet economically profitable. The government wants to facilitate profitable power generation for either gas power, new renewable energy or hydropower. It is important that the power market and price formation function effectively in order to obtain accurate information on socio-economic and business-economically profitable power projects. For powerful industries, long-term and good market-based contracts need to be secured in an integrated Nordic and post-European market. Several of the largest actors have already entered into commercial power contracts, which seem to provide a good basis for further industrial activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1504	I'm a little surprised at the answer. Actually, I guess I'm not surprised by what has come from the Government, but I expected the Minister of Industry to have a more offensive attitude towards this issue. Is it so that the government believes that if we put cables, for example. to Germany, will the Germans sell cheap power to Norwegian industry when they have industries competing with it? So now there's a loss of power in a normal year. Power prices are left to the market. A market depends on the fact that there are two parties – a buyer and a provider. That's exactly the offer problem I'm focusing on here. I would again like to ask the Minister of Industry: what does he think about the future development of the power-processing industry in Norway with the energy policy and industrial policy being pursued?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1513	The representative of Klungland began by saying that he was surprised. Now I know from experience that it's not going to be that much until Klungland is surprised, but I didn't think this answer would be so very surprising. It's a fact that we have a sub-balance of 6 TWh. We definitely have an ambition to have a power balance in the Norwegian market, and I want to add to the Nordic market, in reality, at all times. It is clear that in some special dry years there could be a deficit, which means that the price goes into the weather. I am aware that a lack of power could affect price formation also for the Norwegian power-intensive industry. I can't see that there is something in today's situation that would suggest that Norwegian businesses do not get the contracts they should get in relation to the price. I think it's important to build cables to have that possibility, but I definitely see that there is a need for further development of power in Norway as well. I feel quite sure that will come. There are several projects to be assessed, and I am surprised that none of them will be able to be realised, including in the United Kingdom. to improve the power balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1522	I want to thank you for the answer, which was more precise in relation to my starting point and my question. For example, the Right Party and the Labour Party have: agreed on the construction of gas power plants in Norway with the best technology available. So natural force, which has been granted a concession, says that they have not received political signals to initiate the construction of these gas power stations. Right-wing energy policy spokesperson has been out in today's business and said that now State Council should Steensnæs and the Government should take the initiative to build these gas power stations. It'll be an important step in the right direction. Will the Minister of Industry contribute to the further development of the gas power stations that have already been granted a concession?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1531	I've seen the statements of the various people involved in this field, and it's a correct description of Klungland coming with regard to its own party's history of our attitude to achieving a force balance. In the case of gas-fired power plants, which have been granted a joint concession for the development of 12 TWh, I cannot believe that there is a need for so-called political signals. It's not on the basis of political signals you start that construction. It is based on some realities, which are based on commercially reasonable, thoughtful calculations and analyses. And it's as far as I understand, not commercially interesting to build gas power plants per. today. It has to do with assumed price developments in the near future. I can't see that there are political signals that are going to trigger that construction, but that the owners who are going to stand behind and finance this, will find it commercially interesting to start it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1538	Question 21 is to be asked by the representative of Heidi Sørensen. The President cannot see that she is present in the Chamber, and we move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1546	I have the following questions for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘As a transitional measure, Germany and Austria have received a seven-year derogation from EU rules on the free movement of workers within the EEA territory following the enlargement of the EU, pursuant to the Evening Post of 16 January 2003. Finland has made it clear that they want to ask for a similar scheme, and now it seems that Sweden too is following. What will the Government do in this area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1555	The draft Accession Treaty between the EU and the new Member States agrees on a transitional period of up to seven years, during which EU countries have the opportunity to restrict access to their labour markets through national legislation and bilateral agreements. Germany, Austria, France and Finland have indicated that they will make use of specific transitional arrangements, while others, for example: Denmark and Sweden, so far, have signaled that they will open the labour market from the first day. Both the previous and the current Governments have said that Norway does not require the use of specific transitional arrangements for the free movement of persons in the context of the EU enlargement and a new EEA Agreement. The rights and obligations of the EEA Agreement vis-à-vis the enlarged EU should be applied, with the adaptations agreed between the EU and the accession countries. This view was put behind us by an opinion of the EEA/EFTA countries to the European Commission in March 2001. In view of the need for labour in several sectors, we have seen it as positive that enlargement will make it easier to recruit labour that cannot be supplied domestically. Even if we open up from the first day, within the transitional period of up to seven years, action can be taken against new immigration if a serious labour market imbalance occurs. A Nordic working group in which Norway participates will examine how the criteria for the use of such a safety mechanism can be defined. I would also like to remind you that issues relating to the free movement of persons vis-à-vis the accession countries will be part of an overall negotiated solution that the Stortinget will have to decide in due course. I noticed that a recent Swedish investigation suggested that Sweden use the possibility of transitional arrangements for free movement of persons. The reason for this is not fear of increased labour immigration, but of increased influxes of people who want to exploit Swedish welfare systems or commit criminal acts. It is important to note that the Swedish Government has not taken a decision on the proposals. The investigation shall be subject to general consultation. However, government spokespersons have agreed with the investigator’s assessment that there will be no disruption in the Swedish labour market in the context of enlargement. The proposals have also been strongly criticised by the social partners in Sweden, among others. from LO. On our side, we want to assess whether some of the elements in the Swedish investigation are relevant to us. Finally, for the sake of order, I would like to draw attention to the fact that by opening up the labour market to the new EU countries, Norway is not giving up control over illegal immigration. Border checks between the present Schengen country and the new EU countries will be maintained until they have fulfilled all the requirements for the implementation of the Schengen acquis. They will be subject to the same thorough evaluation as, among other things, Norway experienced before joining Schengen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1573	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which has so far become known through the VG in the last few days. When the Council of State refers to the fact that the Stoltenberg government also believed that there should be free labour immigration within the EEA territory, that is correct. To date, Norway and Sweden have agreed on open borders for the new EU members from the east. But now it is that perhaps more countries in the Nordic countries and many large continental EU countries, such as Germany, France, Italy and Austria, will require five years of transition, which is possible under the Treaty of Rome. This is new, and it is quite essential in this case. Therefore, it must also be allowed to demand that the Government get on the road. My question to the Council of State is: How has the Government intended to inform the Storting about this matter, and when will it come?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1582	This is part of the EEA Agreement currently under negotiation in negotiations between the EU and the accession countries and the EU/EFTA countries. The size has been briefed on the principles underlying the EEA Agreement and the negotiations that have taken place in the bodies in which it has been natural to inform about the negotiations. In this way, Stortinget has been informed that no special reservations have been made. The reason why there have been no special reservations has been that there has been a standing part of Norwegian policy since we reported at the beginning of the work on enlargement that we should not have separate transitional arrangements. Nor is it new that some large countries in Europe have asked for transitional arrangements. It has been known for many years, and it was also known in 2001 that some countries feared the free movement of persons and would use transitional arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1587	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I would like to make a little progress towards what the Swedish Committee has now presented, among other things. in view of their concern that new forms of organised crime may be possible because of the wide differences in welfare schemes and incomes between maybe the Nordic countries, in particular, and many of the new candidate countries. I would like to ask the Council of State: how does the Council of State think that we can prevent such crime from happening to us too, because we cannot be so blind that we cannot see it happening? I expect everyone who's going to work here to also deal with the same employment agreements, the same collective agreements and other rights as the Nordics have. Will the Council also confirm that this is not a social dumping issue, but that we have to deal with Norwegian working conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1596	When we get free immigration in the form of free movement of persons within an enlarged EU and an enlarged EEA, it will mean that there is a potential for more attempts to exploit systems. The government sees that very clearly. So we're going to set up a working group that's going to go through both the things that came from the Swedish investigation, and also other parts of it. We have already started work to look at the responsibilities of employers when we experience that we have engaged illegal labour, just to prevent us from getting crime related to people being exploited. We are aware that this may be a problem. At the same time, I would like to stress that this was also part of the 1994 debate related to the enlargement of the EEA, and there is a huge welfare gap between Greece and Norway, but it has not stormed Greeks into Norway during this period. Then I want to remind you that we also have a law on the publication of collective bargaining agreements. If it turns out that there is social dumping, we have an instrument that can be used by the social partners to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1606	I have a question for the Minister of Defence: «In the Kristiansand area, six defence associations have merged in Kristiansand Defence Foundation Gimlemoen [[approx. 1 500 members]] [[KFSG]] Will the Council of State take some initiative to ensure that the KFSG is a local organisation and that their important defence work can continue in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1615	Kristiansand Military Society, which has later become part of Kristiansand Defence Foundation Gimlemoen, has spent several years using building 84 in Gimlemoen camp for its meeting activities. Following the closure of the Gimlemoen War School, Gimlemoen was transferred to State Building in 1995 for Agder district high school. State buildings initially had other plans for the use of building 84, but the Ministry of Defence has contributed to State Building having now accepted the construction of Kristiansand Defence Foundation and offered the foundation a lease of 25 years. However, the defence foundation is of the opinion that state buildings require a rent higher than that of the foundation. This, of course, is a relationship between the defence foundation and the landlord. Then I would like to remind you that State Building is subject to the Ministry of Labour and Administration, not the Ministry of Defence. However, I am aware that the Foundation and State Building are engaged in a dialogue on the rental calculation, and I await a conclusion from this. But if the foundation and state building in this process do not come to an arrangement, I am determined that the defence will facilitate the use of the Defence Assembly Room at Kjevik, where the Defence Force gathers its operations in the Kristiansand area ahead. I also appreciate the proposaler's commitment to Kristiansand Defence Foundation Gimlemoen and hope that the defence foundation will have good premises for its business in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1626	I would first like to thank you for your answer. I see the councils as positive. The Council of State is probably just as aware of it as I am, that the defence foundation wants to be primarily on the Gimlemo, but within an acceptable price. There is probably talk here of NOK 100,000, while I understand that they have received an offer that is up to NOK 200,000. Now we can't negotiate on price here, that's not it, but they believe that as a volunteer organisation they don't have the power to pay such a large amount. I hope that we can find a solution within the framework that they can accept. If they don't want, as I see it, to be close to Kristiansand Center, for example. on the Odder Island or Marvika, which are old military areas where there might be opportunities. The third and last option I perceive is Kjevik. I wonder if the Council of State, along with its colleague, Victor D. Norman, will work on such a priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1635	I have registered what the representative Halvorsen mentions, namely that the offer made by Statsbyggen is considered by the foundation to be a higher rent than they ideally want. Now the contract between the defence foundation and State Building is based on cost-effective rentals. It is likely that the Ministry of Defence, if it were the Ministry of Defence that had still owned the premises, would also have demanded cost-effective rentals, for there are applicable guidelines. However, we are aware of the difficult position of the Gimlemoen Defence Foundation. That is why, among other things, The State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, a meeting with the Foundation on 12 September, also attended by Defence Buildings to look at possible solutions. The defense has some buildings under disposal, not least on Odder Island and Marvika. However, it is not natural to give the defence foundation access to buildings included in disposal plans, and therefore we need to concentrate on the offer of the place where the defence will be left, namely Kjevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1644	Thank you. I'll make the last question a little more fundamental question. As aggregate representatives, we receive very many enquiries about the disposal of buildings and installations, from e.g. Oscarsborg and Fredrikstad, from municipalities out in the districts occupied by construction. I just want to ask: is the Council satisfied with the work being done by Defence Building towards the municipalities in the current disposal process? At least there's a very big deal going on from the municipalities in this field. Could the Council of State, if appropriate, come back to Stortinget with a notification of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1653	I fully agree with the representative of Halvorsen that the problem of disposal represents a challenge for all of us as politicians, because it is quite obvious that when you are about to dispose of large areas, it will be a wish from buyers and local municipalities to take over this at the cheapest possible rate. At the same time, as politicians, we have put very strong leadership on Defence Buildings to act in a market economy way. Not least, in the last round of government budgets, we had a budget settlement order in Stortinget that defence buildings would raise 100 million. kr more in sales revenue than what was the Government’s budget proposal. It's a dilemma for all of us, because we can't give Defence Buildings a job to raise income, while helping everyone who wants to buy cheaply. Here we must have a general rule to stick to, while we are dealing with the matters as they come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1663	After this morning's discussions on war, peace, bombing and the UN, I will address a more entertaining aspect of defence policy: «According to Today's Business January 20th this year, the Defense will take part in the launch of the latest James Bond film. According to the newspaper, the return on participation is a closed view of the film the next day. The defense participated for free during the launch of the previous Bond film, and was then criticized for their participation. Was the Council of State informed of the decision to make the defence resources available in advance, and what does the Council of State think about the involvement of the Defence in these types of events?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1672	In this case, the film company Fox made direct contact with the Defence Command and asked if the Marine Defense personnel could participate in the premiere of the James Bond film. The Inspector-General for Maritime Defence approved such an arrangement, provided that it did not incur additional costs for the Defence. The Maritime Defence Command School wanted an increased focus on recruitment, including: to the Fridtjof Nansen-class frigates. The James Bond film makes the prison lives visible and the Maritime Defense on an arena that attracts young people and the media. ==References== 50 students shall be set up along the red runner into the cinema and into the premiere party after the performance. The students wear service suits, which are almost identical to the uniform James Bond uses. No weapons of any kind will be used, and the school uses its own bus tour-return Horten–Oslo. Students, who participate on a voluntary basis, have an unusual experience. In addition, students, private and employees of the school are given a closed presentation of the film with a partner. This therefore serves as a welfare measure for students. I was not informed about the matter in advance, nor has it been necessary. This is a recruitment and welfare measure that is well within the framework and powers of defence. These procedures were reviewed by the Defence in 1998, following the incident to which the respondent refers, when armed guards participated in the launch of a James Bond film in 1997. The defence shall be serious and dignified in all respects. But that doesn't mean you have to be afraid to show up in uniform. In our days, the defence personnel are proud to wear the uniform – even when they go to the cinema. I hope we can keep them going. With the challenge of recruiting young people, and with the line we have taken in the delegation of responsibilities and powers, I consider this to be a decision within the given powers, which has had the clear intention of increasing the recruitment of the Maritime Defence Agency and of having the Maritime Defense branded in a positive way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1687	I would like to thank you for a clarification. I fully agree that the defence should wear its uniforms with pride, and that the defence personnel should be visible. Of course, I do not believe that we should have welfare measures for soldiers. On the contrary, I think it is important in the future to strengthen some measures to ensure a wider recruitment also for protection and make it more attractive. I am also anxious to get the case on measures to strengthen the protection obligation back to Stortinget. In this case, however, I would like to ask the Council of State whether there are some guidelines developed by the Ministry of Defence for what the defence can and should participate in different civil events of a more commercial nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1696	In this case, there are no guidelines drawn up by the Ministry, but guidelines developed by the Defence Office itself. Just because there was an episode in 1997 with the arming of soldiers associated with such an event, the Defence itself reviewed this regulation in 1998 in order to ensure that the decisions taken downwards in the organisation comply with the regulations in force. I have therefore not seen the department's need to instruct the defense on these questions. I believe that it is the Defense able to do itself. The defence will have everything to do with acting responsibly, while at the same time having the important responsibility for ensuring recruitment and also having welfare measures that make it attractive to be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1703	I also asked this supplementary question because we had an episode a few months ago, when a marine officer demanded two marine vessels for use in his own wedding. It may well be that both procedures and guidelines for the use of defence materials and recruits should be reviewed so that the defence is at least not subject to criticism. I would also like to allow myself to add that defence policy extends far, from Operation Enduring Freedom through ammunition debates to the Council of State's knees – so at least it is never boring to sit in the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1710	No, the last one is accepted. But at the same time, I would like to say that in a world of big and difficult questions, it is important that the Ministry of Defence spends its time regulating, governing and monitoring precisely the big and difficult issues. We need in the future a kind of defense leaders who have both good judgment and the ability to make judgements themselves at the practical level. I therefore believe that this type of action should be measures that we trust in a delegated decision, without trying to make too detailed a regulation from the top. Just because discretion is not the same with each other, we have to trust that the discretion exercised in the sequences is as reasonable as possible, and that the defense may intervene in retrospect if there are episodes in which one believes that the judgement has not been fully satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1717	The representative, Heidi Sørensen, is now present in the Chamber, and we are going back to question 21. We thank the state councillor, Torild Skogsholm, for having the opportunity to wait a little.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1726	I thank the President for his goodwill and the Council of State for waiting, and I regret the strongest delay. I have a question for the Minister for Transport: ‘Alnabru is the most heavily contaminated area in the city in terms of dangerous health air pollution. Plans for the extension of the Alnabru terminal will lead to increased trailer traffic in this area. The freight terminal at Alnabru has no port connection, and much transhipment takes place from train to trailer and vice versa. How does the State Council assess the extension and future of the Alnabru terminal, in view of the air pollution situation in the Groruddalen and the objective of better interconnection between ship and train freight?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1737	The representative Sørensen addresses an important and difficult issue — the balance between the need for environmentally friendly and efficient transport of goods by the large community and the negative effects of such transport on the environment, health and well-being in the vicinity of Alnabru. In order to achieve national objectives on efficient and environmentally friendly freight transport, Norway needs to have a well-functioning hub for goods with good development opportunities for combined transport. Not least in order to strengthen the role of the railway in freight transport. The Alnabru Terminal has a transport very good location for such a hub and increased use of combined transport and container cargo has given strong growth in the handling of goods at Alnabru. The terminal has a port connection to Oslo Harbour, on its own freight track from Alnabru to Sørenga. The conditions are therefore well arranged for the interconnection of freight between ship and train. Major transport operators have shown great interest in increasing the use of rail transport. Several large terminal installations have therefore been built into the area and there are plans for further development. There is a great need for environmental improvement in Groruddalen. For this reason, broad cooperation between the State and the Municipality of Oslo on better environment in the Groruddalen, where environmentally friendly transport and improvement of outdoor areas are an important theme, and business and local organisations are invited to cooperate. A cooperation group in which the transport authorities also participate will present a concrete programme for this work before Easter. In order to help improve the health and environmental situation in Groruddalen, I have asked the Directorate of Road, in cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo, to draw up a contingency plan for local emergency measures on days of large pollution of nitrogen dioxide and particulate matter. The contingency plan shall contain measures that may be implemented from the next winter onwards. I have also asked the Directorate of Roads to look at longer-term measures and instruments that can help meet national and local pollution reduction targets. Here there is also a strong local involvement in Oslo, and the state and the municipalities of Oslo cooperate among other things. stronger than ever to accelerate the upgrading and expansion of the T-railway system and other parts of the Oslo area public transport, thus reducing the car and environmental emissions from the transport sector. Moving today's freight terminal will lead to poorer rail conditions and increased environmental problems in the Oslo area, among others. in the form of more traffic on the road through the Groruddalen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1756	There are two things I would like to ask about further. I agree that this is a difficult matter, and I would like to make it clear that our party has not concluded either, because this concerns plans that extend far in time, not least as regards the handling of goods. But the Council of State is also well aware of the decision in Oslo City Council, and what the City Council in Oslo is working hard for, the Fjordby Decision, that from 2011 there will be no container port in Sørenga. Then the Alnabru terminal loses its port connection. I would like to hear the Council of State's assessments of the terminal in the light of that. An environmental plan shall be drawn up for the Groruddalen, for which the planning office in Groruddalen is responsible. Isn't it a little unfortunate if you conclude with the expansion of the Alnabru terminal without this being part of the overall planning work?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1763	Compared to the very last time the representative was in the room. I would like to say that I am concerned that we have a good cooperation between the state and the municipality just to take care of the concerns that we should and should take into account local environmental conditions, both in the short and long term. It's clear that there's some uncertainty ahead of time, and not so far in time. The potential investments made, whether on the rail track or in relation to ports and terminals, are usually a bit of a long-term investment. Therefore, it is important that all stakeholders sit down and go through what the outcome will be, what ways we can meet both demands and want it to be a good living environment, and that we have good overall environmental solutions. And when I say good environmental solutions, I also mean good transport solutions that provide good environmental results.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1768	Then I have to repeat my question about the Fjordby decision and the Alnabru terminal in light of that. Then I would also say that it per. date does not exist, at least not as I can see, some good, complete plans for getting more transport from trailers and over to boat and train. We have an unexplained port situation in Oslofjorden, and we also have an unexplained terminal situation in Stavanger. Thinking about rail and port in this regard becomes an important job in dealing with the national transport plan. In connection with the collective communication, SV suggested that we get a separate notification of collective goods, but the majority rejected it. I have a certain fear that this very important freight problem will drown in the national transport plan. I know the members of the committee so well that I think there will be things closer to them than the future handling of goods. How has the Council of State planned to deal with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1777	First of all, I would like to say that I am very happy that it did not become a common collective and freight message. There are two separate issues, although both are largely coined to create a better environment locally as well as nationally. In the case of rail and port, it turns out that the maritime/rail crossing is not so large. It should have been bigger, but it's not that big. In practice, it turns out that the greatest gain we can gain from exploiting the possibilities of road-rail transition. Of course, it is a challenge just to take care of all three sectors, both from road to rail and, as far as possible, from port to rail. We're going to try to do that when we're working on the transport plan, as far as possible. It is precisely the process that has been initiated on the railway side now, and there has been a hearing on the long-term possibilities of goods on the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1784	Then we go back to question 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1790	This question, from the representative of Øyvind Vaksdal to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1793	I want to ask you the following questions: ‘In the newspaper on 11 January, the Council of State refuses to amend depreciation rules or to provide tax relief for the construction of gas power plants. This is justified by distortions of competition and the EEA rules. At the same time, CO2 management is defended because the EEA opens up to support environmental measures. In relation to increasing imports of Danish coal power, upgrading and adjustment of Norwegian hydroelectric power stations are undoubtedly very environmentally friendly. Can we expect the Council of State to come up with measures that will give incentives to take this work forward?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1802	Recent developments in the power market have shown that Norway’s hydropower-based power supply is vulnerable in a dry year that we experienced last year. We've been through a period of high prices while flooding in our power plants is at a very low level. This development is also worrying in terms of security of supply. The government has taken a number of measures to remedy the consequences of the situation in the power market for individual consumers. The government has, among other things: proposed for Stortinget to grant 50 million. kr to a support scheme for households investing in alternative heating solutions or other reasonable saving measures. The government will follow this up with further measures to improve the situation in the power supply both in the short and long term. The representative of Vaksdal points to an important area in that context. Upgrading and extension of existing hydropower plants may be interesting with a view to improving the long-term power supply. This can also be done in many cases in an environmentally friendly and reasonable way. This thought is not new either. The potential for exploiting more hydropower through micro, mini and small power plants was mentioned in NOU 1998: 11, Energy and power balance by 2020. The government discussed this in St.meld. No 29 for 1998-1999, on energy policy. Int. S. No 122 for 1999-2000 promoted the Energy and Environment Committee, inter alia: the proposal that the Storting should ask the Government to propose incentives to trigger the high potential of upgrading and expansion of existing hydropower plants. There are many upgrade and expansion projects that are in progress today but are not yet economically viable. One has relatively good experience with a previous aid scheme at the beginning of the 1990s which provided investment aid for upgrading and extension projects, O/U projects. The aid was financed by the Ministry of Oil and Energy and administered by the NVE. On the basis of certain criteria, a large number of projects were supported. The background to the aid scheme was the desire for a faster exploitation of the potential for more force out of existing installations. The worrying power situation shows the need to strengthen energy supply. At the same time, I would like to stress that hydropower expansion does not solve the problem of dry years, as we experienced last year, which is the cause of the power situation this year. We see the potential to streamline the facilities we have, but a key challenge in the future is to reduce the unilateral dependence on hydropower and to reduce the use of electricity for heating. The government is therefore also working to stimulate energy savings through Enova and to have by 2010 renewable energy sources equivalent to at least 3 TWh production from wind power plants and at least 4 TWh from waterborne heat based on renewable energy sources. In addition, all good proposals for action are assessed on an ongoing basis by the Ministry of Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1821	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There are already aid schemes for wind power because of its so-called eco-friendliness. Many believe, also rightly, that windmills cause great natural interference, and some even claim that this is visual seams. Therefore, there is reason to believe that only hydropower should be the only renewable energy source that is environmentally friendly enough to fall within the scheme of green certificates. Unlike wind power, hydropower is also socio-economically profitable. Does this not mean that hydropower should be equated with wind power in energy and environmental policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1830	As a starting point, investments made on the hydroelectric side should be economically viable. However, as I also said in my reply, support schemes for upgrading measures in already developed watercourses have been introduced in the past. There's a potential there of 11 TWh, if you take advantage of it all. The government has now planned to review the opportunities that lie there, and then assess whether it is natural to go into support measures to provide for this upgrading and take out the energy potential. But as I also underlined, the difficult force balance situation we have now had is because last year it was an extremely dry year. From the fall to the end of the day it has never rained so little – at least it has not rained so little in very, very many years. And that situation wouldn't have been much easier if we had still just made ourselves dependent on hydropower.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1837	I thank you again for the answer. In the planned Sauda expansion, there is a real danger that the Government and the Workers' Party will also give in to symbol politics this time and reduce the power potential like what we saw during the treatment of Upper Otta. For example, if this potential were halved, a needed wind power plant of about 64 windmills, 80 metres high, would replace this amount of power. Does the State Council consider 64 windmills, with construction roads and sealed cable trenches over a very large area, to be a better environmental policy than an environmentally-adapted hydropower deployment according to the NVE’s stop?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1846	What I said in my previous answer was that 97 pst. of the electricity we use in Norway today comes from hydropower. It's a very high number. We should also bet on a number of other alternative sources of energy. The representative is engaged in wind power. The size has adopted a target of 3 TWh, to which the Government relates. In our neighbouring country, Denmark, there is a much larger expansion, and it has been combined with environmental considerations and conservation of the landscape. There are some dilemmas there that the representative also addresses. Then we have a potential of 4 TWh relative to the waterborne heat. It's a great potential that it's profitable for the individual to go into if you see it over a decade. There are some capital costs in the initial phase that make it not completely comparable. With regard to the Sauda expansion, the government will go through that concession request and come back to the Stortinget with a case related to Sauda.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1855	Let's move on to question 25.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1861	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: «Member States indirectly influence the environment through their procurement policies. Public enterprises purchase goods and services for over 200 billion kroner each year. By favouring the most environmentally friendly alternatives, the country can help to distort production in a more environmentally friendly way. What initiatives will the Government take to prioritize the procurement of recovered material in public enterprises?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1870	I agree with the representative Skei Grande that the State should go ahead and exploit its consumer power by seeking environmentally friendly products and services. Therefore, ‘green procurement’ is a central focus of the Government’s Green State work. The State must not only impose environmental requirements on the outside world but also be environmentally friendly in its own operations. We have set ourselves as a concrete goal for the work with the Green State to get all the departments really going. That's what you've done. We're going to put environmental management systems in place by 2005, and that's what we're going to do. This will ensure systematic and long-term efforts to address environmental concerns in the operation of activities. In addition to ‘green procurement’, this is also about environmentally friendly solutions in waste, energy and transport. We have now sent a proposal to the supervisor to ensure that this is effectively and effectively implemented throughout the country. Last November, I also sent a letter to all the departments asking for routines to be established both in the department and the underlying offices to ensure increased use of paper products based on recycled material. For a number of other products, it is also possible to ask for waste-based solutions. For example, office chairs are actually made of recycled cartilage corks and ketchup bottles on Røros. It is important that, through its purchases, the country contributes to strengthening the market for waste-based raw materials. This can be done by asking for products based on waste and by making sure that the raw materials used in the production of different products are wholly or partly based on waste. Each State activity is directly responsible for its own procurement and is required, through a new law on public acquisitions, to take environmental considerations into account in individual acquisitions. The Ministry of Industry and Trade is now developing its own guide on how ‘green procurement’ can be carried out in line with the legislation. Taking environmental considerations into account in purchasing involves emphasising the impact of products on the external environment and taking into account environmental impacts throughout the life cycle of the product, from the extraction of raw materials to the elimination. Implementing such assessments may be complicated and therefore eco-labelling schemes have been established to facilitate the work and choice of purchasers, inter alia. the official Nordic Eco-label scheme Swan. In order to become the eco-label, too many products are required to use recycled material as raw material in production. In addition, the products must be capable of being recovered when they end up as waste. The government is very positive about these schemes and contributes financially to their maintenance and expansion to several product groups. The State may provide important external signals by sweeping at its own door, which was occupied by the representative, while, through its purchases, it has a significant impact and a real opportunity to influence the development of the market in environmentally friendly products.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1887	Thank you very much for a very good answer. I am pleased that the environmental exposure of the Council of State is so great and that the Left Initiative of Bondevik I, called Green State, is being followed up. I also have a great sense of using the market for the benefit of the environment. My follow-up question is whether the Council of State feels that all the structures in the state, including those that have traditionally had no environmental exposure and competence in their midst, feel that this is something they should be involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1896	It's an important question that the representative Skei Grande raises there. We are now working actively in relation to all departments, and also for them to follow up their offices. But after this is underlined again, we're going to go a round in relation to the fact that it's not just the departments and the very nearby floors, but also the state's external offices, state-owned companies and management companies that can be involved in getting a reminder of this. If you look at all the purchases made by the state in one year, they are incredibly large, and by going ahead with a good example, for example. By largely using return paper where possible, it will also provide the basis for environmental technology enterprises, which have not least been occupied by the Left, and which we will try to follow up also in the Government, as is also stated in the Sem Declaration. So we're on here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1913	This question has been transferred to the Minister of Finance. However, the question has been put to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1919	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘For the first time in recent times, wolves have been detected in Rogaland. Several sheep are killed in Eigersund. Will the Council of State put in place something to prevent the killing of wolves being denied in the most sheepy area of the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1928	As the representative of Meltveit Kleppa points out, recent damage has been found due to wolf in the municipality of Eigersund in Rogaland. I am aware that on 17 January six sheep were found killed by a wolf. Furthermore, four sheep were killed because of injuries, and three sheep are missing. On the basis of these damage, Rogaland applied for a breeding permit from ovine and caprine species on 20 January of this year. On the following day, 21 January, the Directorate for Nature Management, which corrected him, took a decision on which the permission to give birth was provisionally refused. This decision has now been appealed against and is being dealt with by the Directorate. The Directorate for Nature Management may then either amend its previous decision, or they may maintain previous refusals and forward the matter to the Ministry of the Environment as the overall appeal authority. For understandable reasons, I can't now pre-shoot the outcome. The Directorate follows the situation in the area very closely, both in the case of possible new damage, and in the case of the results of DNA analyses of wolves in the area of damage. The Directorate has further informed that a new decision in the light of the complaint and new information will be available next week. The DNA analyses that have now been sent to a laboratory in Sweden will reveal whether this is the same individual that has held up in South West Norway in recent months. These analyses also provide an opportunity to determine the gender of the individual and to identify the individual’s role in the genetic survival of the wolf population. The analytical results are expected to the directorate early next week. Eigersund is part of an area that is traditionally suitable for sheep farming by nature, as the representative Meltveit Kleppa pointed out. So that's one of the most sheepy areas in the country. Furthermore, the area has a long tradition of allowing sheep to graze over large parts of the year. It is therefore not desirable to establish solid wolves in this area. This is also apparent from the adopted wolf management zone, where Eigersund is clearly outside the zone where pairs or family groups of wolves are to be accepted. However, there is no automatic means by which any roaming animal located outside the management zone shall be considered in common without any actual damage, potential damage in the future, prevention possibilities and survival of the population being assessed. This follows both from the management zone and from the guidelines drawn up for the management of large predators by the Game Act with regulations. The management apparatus follows developments in this area very closely and is ready to take a new decision at very short notice if the situation is to cope with new damage cases before the DNA analyses are completed at the beginning of the next week.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1950	I thank you for your answer. I would like to draw the attention of the Council of State to a report in his own department entitled "The future of sheep farming in predatory areas". That report was delivered to the Ministry on 31 October 2002. Three areas were outlined: predatory, periphery and grazing area. On page 28 you can read the following: ‘The following measures aimed at predatory game should be implemented in the grazing area: Take-off services of wild game Take-offs of established wild game and wild game as strips.’» I'm glad the Council of State stressed that it's not desirable to have a solid stock. I expect that he will have the recommendation that is in the department, also tell whether he himself should be sued.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1966	It is true that several reports and evaluations have been commissioned from the Ministry of the Environment on the current predatory policy. It is in preparation for the report of predators that the Government is to promote during the year. This will form the basis for the work we have now started. The representative of Meltveit Kleppa is right, as I also pointed out in my answer, that this is about an area that has a long tradition of buffing in the field, and that therefore it is not desirable to establish a solid wolf in this area. It is not relevant for the Government to propose that this should be part of any wolf zone. Of course, the size will have the opportunity to come back to these questions when the notification is addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1975	I'm glad the Council of State is so clear when it comes to solid stocks. I want him to take into account in his further work that there is weight in Dalane and otherwise in Rogaland that there were no immediate killings of at least ten sheep on a wolf. The area of management of the wolf, as the Council of State says, does not include Rogaland, a rather West Agder. There shouldn't be a wolf here. Father-in-law is one of the instances where there is no reason to hold back from giving birth rights. He points out that allowing wolves to live in these areas will lead to significant animal tragedies if traditional sheep keeping and grazing are to be passed on. Government council Sponheim has also been very clear: the wolf has no place in Rogalandsheiene, it is contrary to the government's predatory policy. The wolf must be moved or killed if it does not disappear from itself. I hope that the Council of Environmental Ministers will consult with its colleague.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1984	As I said in my initial reply, this decision of the Directorate of Nature Management is an appeal, and the Ministry of Environment is an appeal. I cannot therefore go in and comment on the matter in question more specifically. But I have stressed that this area should not be an area for solid populations of wolves. That's point one. And point two: I also underlined in my answer – and I think that should reassure those who have buff in the field, where you actually have it out in the winter because you have a tradition for it when there is little snow and they can actually graze a little in that season too – that the management apparatus follows the development of this area very closely and is ready to take a new decision at very short notice if the situation should feed on new damage cases before the DNA analyses are available next week. New attacks by the wolf in this area will lead to rapid action.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e1994	‘The effort to protect the nature of Norway from its inhabitants is accelerating. In the past, the Party of State Councils has called for an overall overview of the protection plans and decisions which permanently restrict the right of owners and local authorities to dispose of natural resources. Will the Council of State take the initiative to provide such an overview annually in the context of the State budget and to indicate when and why the recommendations of local authorities have not been followed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e2001	Let me first answer the representative’s question as to whether the Government will provide annual summaries of planned protection plans and safeguard decisions in the context of the State budget. The answer is that information on areas protected or planned is provided in the State budget during the last two years of the Cooperation Government. For the current year, this can be seen on pages 35 to 36 of the Ministry of the Environment's budget proposal. In addition, the state of the protection of the State of the Kingdom's environmental status and the Government's environmental policy are reported every two years. Such a communication will be submitted during the spring, which has also been notified to the Committee. I do not think there is sufficient reason to explain in addition the individual protection decision in the State budget. The protection work is firmly anchored by the presence, discussion and support of a large majority of the Stortinget through the treatment of various large-scale communications. This may include, inter alia: The review of the Nature Conservation Communication is mentioned as early as 1982, the 1993 National Park Communication and the 1996 White Forest Communication. I would like to add that many of the counter-representations that appear locally are taken into account, so that after this has been at the hearing, it is often such that the original protective plans presented are restricted. Take, for example: The coastal protection plan for Northern Ireland, there were several fewer nature reserves after it had been treated in the Government than it originally provided. It is linked to the coniferous forest plans. In fact, through the National Park Plan, Stortinget has asked for the protection of 50 particularly important natural areas. Eleven are now protected as national parks, landscape protected areas and nature reserves – eight of them by the Cooperative Government. 39 areas remain until the National Park Plan of Storting is implemented. When such decisions are taken by the Government, this is done on the basis of a comprehensive material, which includes both natural and commercial registrations, user and business interests and consultation opinions from all interested parties. All assessments on the basis of which the decision was taken — including those on which the final decision deviates from the hearing opinions — are set out in a separate lecture which follows that kgl. the resolution. The talk is publicly available and will be sent to stakeholders and made available on the Internet. I do not agree with the premise of the representative ‘to protect the nature of Norway against its inhabitants’. It is important to protect parts of Norwegian nature in order to preserve the diversity of plant and animal species and the possibility of natural experiences for future generations as well. In fact, I thought that the Progress Party also agreed on the latter. This work has broad support both in the population and in the Stortinget. Many of our largest protected areas are to be used. People should still be able to hunt and fish. The sheep will continue to graze within the national park boundaries. The officers of the Norwegian Tourist Association's cabins have never had as many guests before as this summer. I've arranged for more activity. The representative of Korsberg should also see the economic potential of maintaining unique, clean and pristine natural qualities – not least in the context of tourism. I will come back to this in a matter of sustainable use of our protection areas during the year, as the government parties and the representative of the Korsberg party have asked in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e2023	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The reason why I raise the question is that there are many who have come to realize that the Progress Party and I are the only champions of private ownership, and when the Council of State says that on pages 35 and 36 of the State budget, there are two more sides to the State budget too little, with the protection rate set by the Council of State. In the past, the Right Party and the Advance Party have maintained a level playing field in terms of protection and overview of the protection area. At the latest in Innst. S. No 124 for 1998-99 following a document No Eight proposals from the Bastesen shared concerns with these two parties. When the Council of State is driving an ever-increasing state bonding of land in Norway, should he not also follow up on the expressed concern of his own party and give such an overview of the size of the lot previously agreed?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e2034	Now, fortunately, it's not that just by saying that you're the only one who's occupied by ownership, you're the only one who's occupied by ownership. As the representative of Korsberg knows, the Right is very concerned with private ownership. Private ownership also makes people take care of important natural areas, and it is to be stimulated – I will get back to it immediately. But it's a premise on the representative's question that's actually completely wrong. The representative claims that what is protected is stated in the budget proposal. That's what the representative said now. That's not what's in the budget proposal. It says what's to be protected. And, as I said, in the last two years, the Co-operation Government has introduced that in the budget proposal, it is actually going to be what areas the Government intends to propose to protect next year. As far as I know, the Progress Party and the Cooperation Government made a budgetary settlement in which the areas to be protected this year are clearly identified. It was then decided by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e2041	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I can assure the Council of State that those affected by the Government's protective measures, and there are quite a few, do not share the views of the Council of State in this way. The local population has historical knowledge and knowledge of natural areas. When they have lived in harmony with nature for many generations and feel that they can do so in the future, it is unreasonable for bureaucrats in the capital to overrun the local population. In the setting I referred to in my previous question, the Right and Advance Party just focused on this and expressed their concern for local self-government. How is this concern reflected in the protection of the Right Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e2050	I deal with decisions in Stortinget relating to the National Park Plan. I also deal with the decisions taken by the Stortning relating to the budget proposal, where it actually states which areas are to be protected. What the representative is addressing is then to open doors, because I have put in place the practice that this should be reflected in the budget proposal. The representative should at least say, yes, we haven't quite seen this, and we're pleased that the Council of State has changed this practice. Not least, there is a follow-up to what has been Right-wing comments earlier in Stortinget. Then I have to say that I am a little stunned by what the representative is now prefecting. Is it the case that the Progress Party opposes the establishment of national parks by Norway? Or is it that you are only against the national parks that the Government is actually proposing as a follow-up to the Storting decision, so that in principle you agree that this can be done, but never in the concrete context? All nations have national parks — in the United States, in Europe. We would have come out internationally if we hadn't said that some areas should be national parks, so that we're sure that those who come after us too will have the same joys in experiencing nature that we've had. In addition, the Government is now also reviewing the replacement legislation in this area, as the first government since the Willoch Government in 1985.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-29.ana.ud1382e2057	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
