ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e122	The representative Knut Storberget, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e131	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e136	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e141	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e160	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the rapporteur and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e169	When matters are assigned to the Storting and the various committees, it is always interesting to see how serious a matter is — what kind of motivation lies in the matter, what kind of challenges there are in it. Sometimes one considers a case to be relatively small in scope. That was the starting point for this matter, although it is enough for those affected, means a lot. It has been a challenge for the Committee, but also an opportunity, to seek solutions to meet the intentions of the proposers, while at the same time taking care of those who are exposed to having one of their children abducted. It is likely that nothing worse can happen to a parent or a parent than that someone in a formerly close family is abducting one of the children. It's probably some of the worst that can hit a family. Thus, it is a good initiative that has been taken here by the proposers. The size should show how you are able to deal with the challenges and the seriousness that lies here. Although there are probably few issues relating to this type of problem on an annual basis, it is no less important for that reason. You probably have to experience it to imagine what a deep intervention it is in someone's life to lose one of their children, even if it's for a short period of time. Even if you know who has your child, it's no less serious for that reason. Unfortunately, it is sometimes read in the media about the difficulty in Norway with Norwegian parents fighting between them — to use such a concept — about parental responsibility and parental rights. It's not going to be any easier when people from other countries are involved, with different nationality and with different family and cultural backgrounds. Then, unfortunately, the challenges get even bigger in some cases. I think that one of the most important things we should take with us is to focus on the child's situation and the child's role. Children do not choose their parents, they are assigned from birth to – good and bad, and the consequences it gives may well surprise them sometimes. Although parents have the best intentions, it can still be wrong. Although the intention here is the best of the child, as I said, it can also be wrong here. With regard to the concrete proposals that have come from the three representatives of the Labour Party, and the Committee's consideration of them, what is needed here: what is needed to make this easier? Yes, among others. There is an ambition to get more countries to accede to international conventions, for example: The Hague Convention. It was one of the intentions of the proposers that the Judicial Committee has agreed to be involved, and sends the challenge to the Government to support further work. In the case of free legal aid, it could also be a challenge. The Committee has stated that: ‘If a child is abducted from Norway, the Norwegian authorities shall assist the parent.’;» Persons residing in Norway who have parental responsibility shall receive free legal assistance. The experience so far is that such applications are largely met. You will come back to it when the Government of the autumn presents changes to the Law on Legal Aid. As a matter of fact, the Committee is well on its way and believes that this will be covered up. Another element is where competence exists, and what are the problem areas in relation to these kinds of issues. Initiatives have promoted a proposal to set up a working group to look at this, which the Committee has agreed to. There was a discussion in the committee about who should be part of this working group – would the government itself be free to pick out, or would you give some signals from the committee about it? Over and over again, it was concluded that both the police and the EEAS should be part of the group. I guess that's quite natural since a kidnapping case becomes a police case. In these cases, it is likely that most abductions take place in another country — if not internally — and then it is natural that the foreign service is also involved, and others who had to be competent in this respect. And it's probably a part that does. In addition, the proposers had a desire to propose their own organisation to do this job, as well as to set up their own telephone line. In principle, the Committee also discussed it well back and forth before drawing the conclusions. We took what was the proposal No. 7 and No 9 from the proposers, under point 3, so it is now up to the working group to assess how to summarize this and what to address. It may be that the answer lies in what were the two proposals, but you are now asking the group to look at it. Moreover, economics is a factor. If you have a bad economy, it can be difficult to carry out abduction, you have a better economy, it may be easier. The Committee has been in agreement on the possibility of stopping financial benefits for the abductor of a child from Norway. At least that should be a matter of course after I've been signed. It becomes a paradox to me that a person who takes a child illegally out of the country receives public benefits from Norway at the same time. It does not harmonize with the scope of the case and the content of the case. There the Committee has been in agreement. Similarly, the Committee has been in agreement with a review of Section 216 of the Penal Code. It will come back to this when the work of the Penal Court is reviewed later by the Storting. The Committee has also said something about the need to punish abduction cases more severely, at least giving a signal of its importance – a political signal about its consequences. But there's also a minority here, which is made up of the Progress Party and the Labour Party. We have made proposals to extend the access to custody of child abductors when they return to Norway. The minority believe that it should be a matter of course that you have a very active attitude to this, and we are not afraid of what the majority has suggested, namely that in that case you can end up in a situation where you attack the abductor, but not get a solution to the matter. We think it's important that this shows a consistent and rapid response. I also expect other representatives to come back to the proposals that the minority is behind. The same minority have a proposal to confiscate the assets of child-rearers in Norway and to make child-rearing an immediate grounds for divorce. Although the majority has rejected the two proposals, I nevertheless feel that they should be given the honour of their intention. Because that's enough essentially the intentions of the Storting debate many times. There is an opening to seize wealth today, but this should nevertheless be clarified. Making child-removal an immediate basis for divorce should also be a priority after the minority has been assessed. This means that the consequences become even clearer for those who consider making or abduction. So I'm going to take up the three proposals of the minority. As I said, the committee has worked a lot on this, there has been a lot of commitment around this proposal. I think the result shows that the committee is very united in its ambition to have a better tool to intervene and to prevent and reduce the extent of child Abduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e208	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e211	I thank Ellingen for a very thorough review of a very serious matter. Several children are abducted from Norway today. It is therefore necessary that more measures are now laid down in order to prevent child abductions. We need some rules that make it easier to bring the child back to the proper caregiver in Norway. Child Abduction is such a serious matter that, together with other representatives of the Workers' Party, it was found necessary in Stortinget to propose measures such as: provides for the possibility for the country to stop financial benefits for the child-removaler. We also want our own telephone advisory line and an assessment of abduction as an immediate grounds for divorce. Action is urgent. All such matters are tragedies that hit both children and caregivers very hard. Today is an important day for all those who have experienced the tragedy of being deprived of their child. Even more important is the day for those who may in the future avoid having to become part of a child-removal case as a result of our taking targeted action. If we avoid one episode where a child is taken away from his caregiver against his will, we avoid one case where a parent has to sit with the uncertainty about where the child is located, yes, then all the measures are well worth it. It is important to point out that just as important as statutory measures are the actual debate on the problem. Focusing on the families and children who experience this is important to raise awareness of the topic. Child Abduction cases are not suitable for party politics and tactics. We must agree on that. In Norway, there are several lone parents who have not seen their young children for a long time. It hurts to read about and hear about all the parents who are left without knowing where their child is or if they will ever see it again. We hear about mothers, and fathers, who sit at home in the certainty of where the child is, but who have no chance of getting it back. We have seen and heard heartwarming stories about children who are being repatriated after many years in another country, where their childhood has gone without one parent having taken part in it. The problem of child abduction may not be so great in numbers, but it's increasing. In addition to the growing number of cases, it is completely impossible to understand the feelings and experiences of the parties involved. Only one who himself has been deprived of his child knows what a tragedy this is. Only a child who himself has had to spend less or greater parts of his life abducted knows what tragedy this is. The Labour Party's proposal makers believe that we have come up with some well-targeted measures in the fight against child abduction. It is therefore disappointing that we have not reached agreement on all the points, which I deeply regret. We have to go a long way in the use of instruments in matters of such a serious nature. This concerns matters where children are abducted against their will, this concerns matters where parents become left in uncertainty about where their child is, and whether the child is well. Nothing shall stand up in the fight to get rid of the problem of child abduction. Many good measures are being adopted here today to prevent the abduction of children to other countries. I think we have to go home. Increase efforts to get more countries to join the Hague Convention to expand the provision of legal assistance in Norway and abroad to coordinate and set up a working group in Norway on such issues of police, foreign service and other relevant authorities that can respond quickly and effectively to increase the potential to stop financial benefits for child Abductors from Norway consider making child abduction for immediate grounds of divorce provide public assistance to establish a Norwegian Child Abduction Support Organisation to establish its own telephone advisory line The sum of the measures proposed in Document No. The 8 proposal will make things easier in the fight against child abduction. We can't change the tragic events we've heard about and experienced, but we can put all the measures in place to avoid it happening again.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e263	The right-hand side looks very seriously at the problems associated with child Abduction cases. For most parents and for the children who come up in such a situation, it is perceived as a cruel assault. I think it's hard to understand how terrible it feels to lose the opportunity to have contact with her child or with her mother or father. I understand very well that that situation feels totally unsustainable to many. I have received enquiries from desperate parents who are left in Norway and feel completely helpless, but also from parents who have been deprived of their child and who have traveled on their own to the country in question to do what is possible to get their child back. Recently, we've seen such cases, unfortunately, increase in scope. It is therefore important to prevent child Abduction cases from taking place. One of the most important in the area of prevention is the need for several countries to accede to the Hague Convention. In cases outside the Hague Convention, Norway is dependent either on reaching negotiated solutions with abductors or on pursuing the case in the legal system of that country. The intention of this proposal is good. It is important that Norway pursue an active policy to prevent childbirth and facilitate the return of the child to the caregiver if the abduction has taken place. The reason why the Right does not want to go into all the individual proposals is that we know that many of the proposals put forward by the proposers are already in force today and are well taken care of. Many of the measures proposed by the Labour Party work well today, and then, of course, the majority sees no reason to support this. Examples include: the extension of the right of access to information. First of all, you can't go to prison without law and judgment in Norway, and everyone here in the Chamber agrees. Prison of Varet is an exception to this, and we use it only in the context of the risk of evidence being wasted or, for example, in the case of prisons. in case of a flight risk to the rest of the world. It will therefore break with the EMK if the Government proposes something in line with what the Workers' Party is asking for here. It surprises me that the Labour Party in this case is not concerned about how Norway should take responsibility and fulfil its international obligations in relation to current human rights. It seems here that you put your human rights aside and jump on a little bit of thought. The representative of Storberget, as one of the proposers, has repeatedly criticized the government parties and the Minister of Justice for the use of more prison as an instrument. I am therefore very surprised that the representative of Storberget does not think about the consequences of this proposal, and does exactly the opposite of what he otherwise foresaw. Instead of detailing the Government by instructing it to address individual measures, e.g.: setting up your own telephone service, the Right is pleased that the Committee joins a proposal whereby we allow the Government itself to assess what measures can be taken to assist or advise individuals, public authorities or organisations that may be involved in such cases. With regard to the proposal to extend the provision of legal aid, the Right considers that those who are caregivers should be entitled to free legal assistance. We look forward to the changes in the law that come to the autumn, and that these kinds of issues come into the law as a priority. It is important that Norway has the same type of regime as other countries, and that Norway plays a central role in getting more countries to join the Hague Convention. These matters are terribly bad and difficult for them. The key must always be that the child’s best interests and the child’s rights come into focus. I believe that the proposals for which it is the majority here will be a contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e284	It is a very important proposal that has been put forward here. From the SV side, we see that it is especially important to get an extra pressure on these matters. There's a lot going on in this area. We have received information about that from the Minister of Justice. That's very good. However, there are some things that can still be done better and more effectively, not least if there is a clear pressure on those actors who need to implement some of the measures. SV believes it is important that we have a review of the legislation on citizenship, but at the same time we are very clear that it should not be that if a person does not get rid of his or her original citizenship, it should exclude him or her from having citizenship in Norway. We believe that this is going to be completely wrong, and we are glad that it is only the Progress Party that does not decide on this matter. We believe that it is particularly important that Norway plays an active role in getting as many countries as possible to join the Hague Convention. We believe that Norway has a job to do internationally to put pressure on other countries to give priority to child Abduction cases. These are extremely serious cases, where kids may be at risk of being torn up with the root, away from their playmates, their one parent and sent far from the farm, but where in addition, the dilemma arises – which some actors have also pointed out to us in connection with the incorporation of the Children’s Convention, which we will come back to later – that some of these children will not even return to Norway if they have been abroad for a long time. It creates an extra big dilemma. That's why it's so important that this is given high priority, so that we get the action as early as possible. For many years have passed, and the child does not actually want to come back here again because it may not even know his or her parent anymore and have settled in a completely new environment in the new country, it may be all the more traumatic to be sent back. Therefore, it is so important that this shock is inserted immediately. SV believes it is very positive that the Committee, together, states that the person with parental responsibility, who has been deprived of his child, should have free legal assistance in child abduction cases. We are pleased that there will be a review of this in connection with the Law on Legal Aid for the Autumn. We support, and are pleased, the proposal to set up a working group to look at the possibility of drawing up proposals for various assistance measures and advice to individuals, public authorities and organisations that may be involved in cases of repatriation of abducted children. SV also agrees that there is a need to look at the potential to stop government financial benefits for someone who abducts children abroad. We believe that it makes sense for the Government to assess whether existing voluntary organisations can be strengthened to provide assistance in child abduction cases, but that it is also assessed through the working group whether support for a separate organisation needs to be given in these cases. We believe that the victims must be able to receive assistance and advice from the police, and not least from Kripos, who have gained experience in this area. SV also agrees that there may be a need to review the provision of the penal code § 216 – in addition to the provision on illegal detention in § 223 – against child abduction. We believe that this should be done in connection with the work of the Government on new criminal law, as the rest of the Committee also believes. We also believe that the signal given by the Penal Court that the penalty framework should be lower in these cases is problematic. These are so serious things that we should actually raise the penalties. There are some suggestions we think are troubling – they are referenced in the setting. However, we believe that one of the most important things is that we put pressure on what we already have on measures, on the different agencies and, for example, on the various agencies. Kripos, the police, is putting a click on this. And then we believe that the working group that is now being set up must have the opportunity to assess this and carry out a proper review, because some of the proposals made by the proposers are not well thought out, for example. automatic divorce, which may be counterproductive. So the Minister of Justice, in his letter to the Committee, made this clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e307	I would like to begin by commending the representatives Fallet, Bekkemel Orheim and Storberget to focus on the many and serious issues that child-removal travels. Parents and children affected by child abduction experience a serious breach of the right to contact one another. The emotional stress of abduction is very high. It is therefore important that Norway pursue an active policy to prevent childbirth and that we have instruments that are suitable for repatriating children who have been abducted to countries outside Norway. Abduction of children to countries which have committed themselves to the Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of Child Abduction often leads to a positive outcome by returning the child to Norway. However, the return effort is significantly more difficult when the child is taken to a country that has not entered into international commitments in this area or that does not comply with international commitments entered into. It is therefore positive that the Government will work towards the accession of several countries to the Hague Convention. This work must be done primarily through political pressure in meetings held by Norway with non-Conventional countries. Once a child has been abducted, the Norwegian authorities shall assist the parent. A natural consequence of this is that the parent who lives in Norway and has parental responsibility receives free legal aid in a child-removal case. I am familiar with the fact that the state largely accepts applications for legal aid in such cases. However, the Christian People's Party believes that this practice should be confirmed by the Law on Legal Aid, and we look forward to the Ministry proposing this in the forthcoming Legal Aid Communication. One of the parents from whom the child is abducted experiences a crisis and chaos in life. In such a situation, it is important that the public utility is well-organised and coordinated so that it can easily receive guidance and assistance. Proposals propose to extend the right of access to children’s abductors on return to Norway. In this regard, it is important to point out that there is today scope for apprehension towards those who have committed child abduction, and in the view of the Christian People's Party, this access is sufficiently wide. I consider it appropriate to remind you that arrest and imprisonment should only be used when necessary for the purposes of future criminal proceedings. Attacks cannot or shall not be used as a means of pressuring the child to return to Norway. If we follow the recommendation of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party and use force for repatriation, it will be a clear breach of Article 5(1)(b) of the European Convention on Human Rights. The Christian People's Party will not participate in the implementation of criminal procedural arrangements contrary to international human rights obligations. Section 217 of the Criminal Procedures Act lays down rules on the confiscation of the property of the victim. Paragraph 220 provides for the management of the property of a foreign resident. Those provisions are sufficient if there is a need to ensure that the entire or part of the stockpiles of sieves in Norway. This may, for example: be applicable in relation to a claim from the other parent. On the basis of this, the Christian People's Party believes that there is no need for additional warrants to seize the fortune of a child abductor. However, we support the proposal to increase the possibility of halting financial transfers to children’s abductors from Norway. This, together with the proposal to strengthen the work of non-governmental organisations on child abduction issues, should be assessed by the Government as quickly as possible and subsequently submitted to the Stortinget. Childbirth should not constitute a basis for immediate divorce. The marriage law has appropriate rules for the winding-up of marriage. Furthermore, the proposal will not facilitate the return of a kidnapped child to Norway. The Ministry of Justice is working on proposals for new criminal law. In this context, it is important to carefully assess the need for clarifications in the legislation with a view to the legal certainty of children in general. In particular, clear rules on child abduction are important. The Christian People's Party therefore asks the Minister of Justice to ensure that Section 216 of the Penal Code is reviewed with that aim in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e338	The working party has with Document No. 8:96 took a very important initiative. It is necessary to highlight the various problems of childbirth, not least at a time when we see that there is an increasing number of people experiencing this, both children, parents and relatives. It is important to address seriously the issues that are both of a private and family nature, as well as those of a criminal nature. The central party supports what the committee says in relation to citizenship, i.e. that the individual should initially have one citizenship, but at the same time we believe that when the practice here is different in some countries, a new citizenship law in Norway should not be used to prevent some young people from getting Norwegian citizenship. And then we're some people in that it's important to both work to prevent child abduction and to intensify our efforts in that area. We are also very many in the Committee who say that there is a need to give help to the child and to the parent who experiences the relief it is when abduction takes place. This means that it is particularly important for countries that have not entered into or do not comply with international obligations to put the search light on and intensify their efforts. What complicates this is that one meets another family culture and other legal traditions. In Norway, we need to do what we can to get more people to join the Hague Convention. We ask the question: What happens after this setting? It's good in itself to get to know what we've got now through the various suggestions that are being made here. In addition, in relation to some themes, a working group for closer evaluation has been identified. But is it such that parents, relatives and family networks that are now in a desperate situation can expect a strengthening of efforts and help from Norwegian authorities? I notice that the telephone consultancy service is among the suggestions that should be considered more closely. Maybe having a simple brochure, an A4 sheet, that tells you how to proceed, is what's best in a given situation. I have met some people who have experienced childbirth. There have been great despair and questions about what can one do, where can one turn around. There is no doubt that there is a lack of knowledge both on the part of public authorities and on the part of the lawyer about this. It is important that this document itself helps to intensify the assistance already available. Of course, the centre party supports the recommendation from the committee, but we would also like to support points 1 and 2 of the minority proposal from the Labour Party and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e355	I agree with the Committee that parents and children affected by international child Abduction are subjected to an assault. The emotional stress is also great. Therefore, I have no problem agreeing that Norway must pursue an active policy to prevent such abductions and make it easier to bring the child back if an illegal abduction has taken place. However, I believe that we are already doing so. However, I am open to good proposals which can further strengthen efforts in this area, and are therefore in favour of the intentions behind the proposal under consideration today by the Stortinge. When mother and father are related to different countries, there may occasionally be disagreement as to where the child is to live. The disagreement sometimes leads to one of the parents taking children illegally to another country. Abductions are often the result of complex life conflicts. As I stated in my letter to the Legal Affairs Committee attached to the vote, about 80 pst. of the abductions of the mother of the child. Abduction may in some cases be a means of protecting the child from abuse or other serious care failures. In other cases, the abductor's reasons for moving are not so ideal. So these things are very complex. ==References== Today, 60 countries have acceded to the Hague Convention on International Child Abduction. This Convention, alongside international police cooperation, is the most important tool we have today to resolve such matters. In Norway, we have experienced a happy decline in cases under the Hague Convention in recent years, from 48 in 1999 to 21 in 2002. Of these 21 cases, four cases involved abductions to Norway and 17 out of Norway. As I also express in my letter to the committee, most matters are resolved quickly, often in a few weeks. Child Abductions to countries not members of the Hague Convention may be much more difficult to resolve. The challenge, therefore, is to get several countries to join the Convention. I therefore have no problem joining the Committee when it wants the Government to further increase its efforts to get more countries to join this international legislation. Those who have had their children abducted will often need legal assistance both in Norway and abroad. In my time, the Ministry of Justice, as Minister of Justice, has conducted a liberal practice in granting free legal aid in these cases. Recently, at the hearing, we sent proposals for changes and improvements to the law on free legal aid. One of the proposals was to make free legal aid in child abduction cases so-called priority, i.e. as a general rule, free legal aid shall be provided if the applicant fulfils the income conditions laid down in the law. In addition to that, we have a very liberal dispensation practice from income conditions in such cases. The Government aims to promote a proposal for changes to the Law on Legal Assistance for the autumn where this will be one of the proposals. I have noticed otherwise that the Committee will have an assessment of whether voluntary organisations can be strengthened to provide assistance in child Abduction cases. I have also noticed that the Committee will increase coordination and set up a working group on rapid and effective response. On behalf of the Government, I have also noticed that the Committee believes there is a need to look at the possibility of stopping public financial benefits to someone who abducts a child abroad. This will concern benefits provided in accordance with rules administered by ministries other than the Ministry of Justice. I agree that there may be a need for a review of the penal code § 216. However, Section 223 of the Criminal Code on Illegal Detention should also be reviewed against child abduction. I will do this in connection with the work of a new penal code.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e375	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e378	I am pleased with the openness of the Minister of Justice and so far as his receipt of the proposal, and believe that we can get a bit on the way. I have to be allowed to replicate in relation to the government party that has now expressed on the issue of the arrest, in particular the Judicial Spokesman of the Christian People's Party, who claims that prosecution should only be carried out in criminal matters, and that everything else is contrary to the EMC. Is this the Minister of Justice's opinion, and in that case he will do something about the prison associated with, for example, Foreign law, which has nothing to do with criminal proceedings? Is this also in conflict with the EMK, and in that case will you do something about it? On the contrary, I think it is important that we get more pressure into these matters, and that, for child abductors, we can also use the right to seize to get in touch with him, not necessarily in connection with a specific criminal case. My question is: I share the Minister of Justice, among others. The Christian People's Party's perception of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e387	It is likely that different arguments may be put forward in connection with the possibility of extending the scope of intervention. My main arguments are set out in writing to the Committee. I'd like to quote what it says: «In the case of the proposals to extend access to custody against the abductor and to review the penal code § 216, I mention that the experience is that the remaining parent rarely wants to report the abductor. The background is enough that a notification will further foment the conflict between parents – which does not benefit the child. This is reflected in the Hague Convention, which provides for a civil-law settlement of cases. In any case, such a measure would not encourage the kidnapper to return with the child.» My main point is that we have to find solutions that make it beneficial for the child, and I have actually understood that was the intention of the proposers. At this point, I believe that the intention is not promoted by the proposal that exists, even though I have nothing against the main intentions, which I commented on in my main post.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e397	In connection with point 10 of the proposal in Document No. The 8-proposal for a review of Section 216 of the Penal Code has just been discussed by the Minister of Justice. To that I would like to comment on some of the things that the committee says. They say, among other things: it will be noted that: ‘The Penal Code Commission appears to propose that the penalties for such cases should be lowered... This, in the Committee's view, is not in accordance with the seriousness of such cases. Child Abduction,... requires a strict level of punishment so that a person primarily achieves the necessary general prevention’. Then my question, having heard the Minister of Justice recently, will be explained that a review of Section 216: Is the Minister of Justice now prepared to take over the clear and coherent signal from the Justice Committee and come back here with an increase in the level of penalties in child abduction cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e407	As is well known in the case of the Criminal Felony Commission, I have previously stated that the work plan is such that the main principles of it are to be found in the Grand Duchy during 2004. Of course, I would like to include all the signals given by the Storting on the road, including the signals given by the Committee in connection with point 10. It is, of course, an important premise in the work both on the general premises and on individual paragraphs. When I didn't take it up specifically in my post, it was because I have too habit of course to take with me the arguments and the positions of the Storting, and they're clearly expressed at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e414	Since SV has been reasonably satisfied with the answers given to this matter by the Minister of Justice, and since SV actually in all the proposals support the government parties, I would like to ask a slightly different question – with the risk of advanceing the treatment of the incorporation of the Children's Convention. This is true of those mothers, whom the Council of State has also been busy with, who have taken their children out of the country and in practice abducted them to escape, for example. is in breach because the Norwegian judicial system has not been able to handle sexual offences and other criminal offences properly. My question is therefore: what does the Minister of Justice intend to do with precisely these cases, such as: SV has had a meeting with Redd Barna about, and which I know many are deeply concerned about? I wonder, among other things, whether the Minister of Justice will be willing to look at the possibility of allowing children to be heard to a far greater extent than is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e421	It is true that there are aspects of children's relationships that are not my area of law, but it is true that we will come back to the question later on in the discussion of the Children's Convention. So I'd rather come back to it then. I think I have the position that you should be very listening to the possibility that children are not taken with enough. That's my general starting point. However, it is made clear in the individual matters for which I am responsible, and in the individual matters which my fellow Members are also promoting in the Government. The problem raised by the representative of Thorkildsen is complex and difficult, but there is no need, of course, not to try to get closer to it to see how to find solutions. Even I feel that the Storting in the treatment of the theme today, with the tone that, among other things, has been estimated by previous speakers, has agreed to address existing and emotionally intense issues in such a way as to be willing to test solutions, even if it may be difficult. That's a basic attitude, too, I share.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e430	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e435	Later today, Odelstinget shall, as a matter of likelihood, incorporate the Children’s Convention into Norwegian law. The right of the child to be heard is at the centre of his or her right, to ensure that he or she communicates with his or her parents, and that decisions taken by the child are best for the child. Child abduction violates all of this. The intention of the proposers of the proposal is to bring more pressure to bear on child-removal issues. We don't think the government is showing enough activity in these matters. As a co-rapporteur, however, I welcome the support that has been given to the proposal on essential points. It shows that there is a need for the Government to strengthen its efforts. It is necessary to extend the provision of legal aid in order to provide legal assistance to more people and to cover costs incurred abroad. In a few such cases, the remaining parents have engaged private investigators to track down the child if possible. In that case, specific questions arise when applying for public funding for such services. It should not be worn by the fighting parent. However, it is incomprehensible to me that the government parties and the Socialist Left will not contribute to the confiscation or freezing of the assets of child abductors in Norway, and that there is no attempt to extend the scope for action. This could have put pressure on matters, even where criminal offences can be detected. This is not contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, such as the Government parties to believe in later. The violation of human rights lies primarily in the fact that the child has been refused contact with mother or father. We have many examples in the legislation of drastic action, both in terms of wealth and in relation to seizure, among other things. in foreign affairs, and where there is no subsequent accusation of infringing human rights. It is also incomprehensible that the same batches will not grant immediate grounds for divorce, not automatically, but which one party may choose to use in such cases. What's the reason why you don't want to admit this when you're a kid, how much trust until those degrees are broken? I think it is almost unethical to force one of these parties to continue marriage when such a fundamental relationship of trust is broken. Nevertheless, the decisions we take today are, fortunately, largely unanimous and must contribute to increased efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e450	The number of families with children in Norway with a multinational background is increasing. This alone increases the risk that one of the parents may wish to take their children to their country of origin in the event of a life crime. Society must ensure that adequate measures and instruments are in place to prevent child abortion and not least to facilitate the return of the child to the caregiver. From 1997 to 2001, 126 children were abducted, while 61 children were abducted to Norway. The fact that one of the parents actually kidnaps their children is a totally unacceptable attitude and must be treated as a criminal act, regardless of whether it is mother or father that abducts the child. A child has a natural right to have two parents and not to be separated from one. Today, we are discussing the integration of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child in Norway. A child up to the age of seven shall be free to express If one kidnaps the child to an unknown place, the child's natural right will be cut off. Its longer a child has been abducted, the more likely it is that the ties to the remaining parent will be emotionally weakened, but also positively affected by the kidnapper. The impotence and despair that the rest of the parents had to feel is indescribable. An extract from the VG on 9 September 2002, where mother abducted two children from a father who had been granted custody and parental responsibility for the children after a judgment in the Supreme Court, reveals the hopelessness of this parent. He said, "I feel totally powerless. This is a Kafka process. Poland acts in a way that renders the International Convention on Child Abduction worthless. The case was first trained in the Polish judicial system, and then they said that they did not find the children. And Norway rewards an ongoing crime by requiring me to pay contributions.’ The question is: can the world feel more unfair when long and expensive legal cases that end up in harmony with the judicial system become worthless when society's follow-up to a judicial judgment is completely absent? The aim of a child-removal case is to bring the child back to the care provider or the parent. The Workers' Party proposes to extend the right of access to children's abductors on return to Norway. This may be in conflict with the EMK. Therefore, the prosecution authority should bring criminal proceedings against the kidnapper as soon as possible, such as: will enable the kidnapper to be apprehended. It will not necessarily be easier to bring back a child who is abroad if, for example, the kidnapper. are automatically apprehended and sent to custody during visits to Norway. However, the chances of having abducted children back will be greater as more sanctions are applied by the Norwegian authorities to the child abductor. This will also increase the possibility for the police in several countries to give priority to an international alert in a child-removal case. The Labour Party also proposes to increase the possibilities of seizing the assets of child-rearers in Norway. Paragraph 217 of the Criminal Procedures Act will be sufficient if there is a need to secure all or part of the property mass of the sieves in Norway. Therefore, there is no need to increase the possibility of seizing the wealth of a kidnapper in Norway. When criminal proceedings are brought, self-assessments should be made as to whether Paragraphs 217 and 220 of the Criminal Procedures Act should be followed, i.e. securing of wealth. It is obvious that financial benefits for child abductors are stopped.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e470	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[See page 3162]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e486	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e493	This is a big message that has passed the committee without any comments. Thus, there should be no reason to keep long posts. I'm not going to do that either. However, when I take the floor, it is to point out that this is the first year in which the Committee on Legal Affairs has had no opinion on individual cases relating to the replacement of cheapness or justice, which is the neo-Norwegian word used in the communication, a word which is otherwise much more comprehensive as to what this is all about. Before that, the applicants were able to appeal to the Judicial Committee after a refusal in the Ministry of Justice. In the event of rejection there, appeals could be made to the Judicial Committee. So now access to appeals to the Justice Committee is removed. This does not mean, however, that it is not subject to popular treatment, because the Justice Compensation Board consists of two magistrates who assess these cases. I would also like to stress that the position of the Judicial Committee on these types of matters will now be in the form that, in consultation with the Ministry, where appropriate on its own initiative, the Judicial Committee will continue to have the possibility to influence the scheme, namely by providing guidelines on the award of cheap and fair remuneration and on the criteria on which it is to be awarded. With these words, I recommend that the message be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e513	I will carefully comment on some very brief comments. As has been explained now, the appeal to Stortingen has been abolished, and all complaints under the old scheme have been processed. Formerly, the Government briefed the Stortinget on the cheap compensation scheme through specific complaints. In line with the Stortingen Decision on 26 October 1999, annual notifications of the scheme are now being prepared instead. The notification, which is usually very short, thus continues the form and content of this subject in previous complaints. It was assessed in the context of the preparation of this Communication whether to provide a more comprehensive, detailed information on the cheap substitutes scheme. However, it was concluded that a notification was first made in such a concise way as the one currently being treated, and then leaves the Stortingen to take the initiative if they want a more complete communication for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e522	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3162]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e540	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3162]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e558	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e578	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3163]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e596	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3163]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e614	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3163]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e635	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3163]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e651	In short, we would like to point out that residents in institutions have had a significant negative development in how much income they could have at their own disposal, especially when we look at the period from 1989 to today. The proposers behind this document No. The 8 proposal does not want these developments to continue, and has therefore proposed that the amount of the allowance should be set at 25 pst. of the basic amount of the social security. It is unreasonable that persons who have resided in an institution should be able to dispose of a small proportion of their own income in such a way as to cause serious problems, among other things. to be able to give their closest attention to, for example: birthdays, Christmas etc. We have to do something about this. However, when the Progress Party now chooses to accept that the proposal is annexed to the Protocol, and thus does not promote the proposals today, the Social Minister’s letter to the Committee of 19 May 2003 refers to the fact that the Government will present before the summer a report on improving the quality of care services. In this context, under this letter, a thorough review of the self-payment arrangements will be carried out. It will be interesting to see what the Government will do in this matter. The Progress Party will therefore re-examine the proposals made in Document No. The 8th proposal, when the notified notification is to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e664	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3163]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e680	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e687	The three proposers behind Document No. 8:104 supports three proposals to address the problem of homelessness in Norway. Firstly, it is proposed that municipalities should be obliged to find housing for persons who do not have a place of residence when they come from prison or institution. Secondly, changes in the social services law § 3-4 Dwellings to disadvantaged people are proposed where it is made clear that social services have an obligation to provide people with a sustainable housing service. The third proposal is to ask the Government to draw up quality requirements for temporary accommodation sites to which the municipality refers without residence. An overall committee, like the proposers, wants to address homelessness, and shares the concern that people who have been released from prison or who have completed an institutional stay are often referred to as a temporary solution. However, there is no majority for any of the proposals in Document No. 8:104. I want to use the rest of my post to justify the views of the government parties, and I'm assuming that the other parties themselves are deepening their positions. Today's legislation guarantees the individual right to temporary housing if you cannot obtain it yourself. In this way, proposal No. 1 be covered by this. In addition, municipalities have a general responsibility to help provide the individual with a sustainable housing service. The proposal that municipalities should be obliged to provide a sustainable housing offer will change the entire public housing policy. The proposal will also significantly extend public responsibilities and reduce individual responsibilities accordingly. Furthermore, there is a significant intervention in municipal autonomy. If you don't even believe that the municipalities are able to help people who need help, to find a place to live without legalizing it as an obligation, we can hardly believe that the municipalities can handle it. The task of helping people who come out of prison or institution, or who have otherwise come into a difficult situation, to get a decent place to live, I have great confidence that the municipalities will be able to solve without it being adopted as an obligation. It's strange, however, that SV, who is trying to make themselves comfortable with the municipality of Norway by talking about a greater degree of autonomy, makes such a proposal, which shows that they have zero confidence in local democracy. There is sometimes a long way between life and learning. Through the SV proposal, it will be possible for more people to become tenants in public rented dwellings. These are then excluded from the possibility of participating in what is considered to be the safest saving, namely owning their own home. This will mean a new expansion of the poverty traps. With regard to the proposal for the preparation of quality requirements for temporary accommodation, the Minister of Social Affairs has already sent out a circular on quality requirements, which should be comprehensive. The government parties do not support the SV proposals. That doesn't mean we're passive about the homeless. The house bank has received more money for both housing support, housing grants and the loan framework. Increased resources have been proposed for the follow-up and guidance of municipalities in housing-social work. The government has asked the House Bank to give the fight against homelessness top priority. The housing allowance from the House Bank is the highest ever, and there is a device that prioritises the most disadvantaged. By extending the maturity of loans from 30 to 50 years, the municipality's borrowing costs are reduced, which facilitates lower rents. Furthermore, during the autumn of 2003, there will be a major communication on housing policy that will also include plans to combat homelessness. The ability of municipalities to help the homeless is also strengthened in the Government's 2004 proposal for a municipal pro-position, by a strong growth in the municipal economy. Fewer earmarked funds and increased free revenues contribute to increased urban space. In addition, the government has granted 19 million. for research and activities to help the homeless in the country's six largest cities. This shall also provide an overview of the number of residents and the needs of the homeless. Although there is a lot of positive about the homeless, homelessness is still a big problem. The government has taken a number of steps, and the Storting's handling of the housing report for the autumn will hopefully contribute further. The proposals in Document No. 8:104 is not fit to solve anything. They are really about whether you trust the municipalities to do the job they are going to do, without Stortinget having a law of duty down their ears. That's hardly how we best care for the homeless, where we depend entirely on the municipalities doing their job.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e725	It is good to promote measures for the many homeless people in this country, as set out in Document No. 8:104 from the SV representatives Holmås, Molvik and Thorkildsen. However, the proposals will not have a majority today. There may be different reasons for this, and I will come back to why the Workers' Party does not support the proposals. After today's division of roles, municipalities have the main responsibility for housing for the disadvantaged, including the homeless. This responsibility is demonstrated by the Social Services Act §3-4, which entrusts the municipality with the task of helping to obtain housing for persons who cannot take care of their own interests in the housing market. SV wants to promote a change in the law, so that municipalities are given an obligation to find housing for people who do not have a place to live. The Labour Party believes that before you can impose even greater responsibility on the municipalities, we must first of all get a better municipal economy, so that there is consistency between the tasks the municipalities have to perform and the money transferred from the state. It's not today. But for some groups it is not enough to get an offer for a dwelling from the municipality. Of the approx. Six thousand homeless people can be helped by economic means, one third can live if they have some social welfare follow-up, and the last third must have heavy social follow-up. The latter applies not least to groups of drug problems. That is why this is a complex problem. The government will maintain the hubs and better quality. The Labour Party totally disagrees with this. We're going to wind up the shelters. Staying at the hostel is at best a short-term, uncertain, poor and expensive offer. For anything other than completely acute, short-term problems, it will be both better and cheaper with a regular offer. But it requires the state to make arrangements so that it is possible for the municipalities to implement this, but this government has not done so far. In 1997, a survey told us that there are at all times about 1,000 people living at the hospital. It doesn't seem that this number is getting lower today. Staying at the hostel cost in 1997 approximately between NOK 12000 and NOK 15000 per year. person per person months. A good housing offer in ordinary housing based on current financial resources with 60 pst. grant and extended housing aid, as the Workers' Party agrees, would be to offer a dwelling within a framework of approximately NOK 3000 per year. months. By providing such solutions, the municipality can release considerable financial resources, which can instead be used to provide the individual with a social follow-up which can facilitate the establishment of a common link with housing, employment and meaningful social life. But the government has not significantly increased this grant. The government has held a stable grant for dwellings. It is therefore more expensive for municipalities to set up housing facilities and difficult to prioritise among many other acute problems. The working party proposed to increase the grant for the construction of low-income and rental dwellings by 112 million. more than the Government Parties and the Progress Party for the current budget. We didn't get a majority for that. It would give many municipalities much more opportunity to help the homeless. In cooperation between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the largest municipal authorities, a separate project for work with the homeless is already in place. The Workers' Party believes that it is important to interact with organisations such as the Salvation Army and the Church's Bymission, which, on a voluntary basis, do affordable work in this field. The Labour Party therefore believes that the Ministry of Social Affairs should develop a support scheme for municipalities and non-governmental organisations taking responsibility for particularly disadvantaged people, where they can recover part of the costs of housing social follow-up. If that's what the Social Minister, with his statements in the newspapers today, intends to follow up, that's good. But if it's the grant to the big cities or the grant to drugs and psychiatry that the government is proposing in the municipal proposition for next year, which is the solution, it's ridiculous. For example, there will be an increase in the number of young people in the European Union. Kristiansand municipality gets 1 million. kr less than today. There won't be much help with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e753	I'm not going to be as categorical as the representative Heieren Hundhammer was in his post, as to whether or not these measures can work. For the Progress Party, as is also stated in the Committee’s position, we want to return to some of the measures in connection with a housing notification that is notified to the Stortingen in the autumn. Therefore, it is natural to see part of this, in particular what appears in the SV and the comments of the Workers' Party, in this context. However, I would like to make a few comments on the proposals that lie here. As regards proposal No: 3, from SV, I think it goes way too far. After this proposal, care should be taken to provide a place of permanent residence without any place of residence. That is, the only way to solve it is actually that the municipalities go to the purchase of housing. It's only the way you can give a permanent solution and distribute these dwellings to those who come into this category. I don't think that's the way to do it, we have to find other and more flexible solutions to that problem. As far as quality requirements are concerned, as stated in proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, I would like to support what the representative Heieren Hundhammer had to say, namely, what the letter from the Social Minister says is that we are developing and concluding a circular on quality requirements for temporary housing according to sections 4 to 5 of the Act. I think that's the first way we have to try to solve these things, and then we'll see where to go. I believe that in this case we are delighted to see this in the context of the housing announcement coming to the autumn. The way the Progress Party votes today suggests that we do not reject any of these measures, but we want to see them in context and in connection with the Housing Communication. Then we'll get back to the matter and see if it's part of the proposals we can then possibly support.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e764	One of the most unworthy things I can imagine in a rich and modern welfare society is that people don't have a place to live. A safe and good home is absolutely fundamental to people's ability to live a good life. That's also why the right to housing is grounded as a human right. There is a very unworthy situation for those who are homeless, and all possibilities have to be tried to fix this. Homeless people have very different and complex problems, and therefore SV believes that many and different measures need to be taken. We are aware that the three proposals that SV is promoting today in this matter do not only solve all the problems, but they will be able to solve the most precarious problems. One concerns the quality of temporary accommodations, which are often hosted. The very best thing would be, of course, if we got there that the need for this type of accommodation was no longer present, and that everyone had a good and permanent dwelling. We recognize that it will take time before we get there. In the meantime, it is therefore important that the quality of these temporary residences be as good as possible. We therefore propose that clear quality requirements be developed which are clearly binding on the municipalities. It is particularly unfortunate and unworthy that people who come out of an institution or prison and who are going into a positive rehabilitation are placed at shelters and in environments that easily lead to relapses and new major social problems. I am aware that the Government is working on these types of quality requirements, and we hope that they will be made as binding as possible. It is the case that municipalities today have a general responsibility to ensure that people who are not able to obtain accommodation, a place to live. However, the practice in many municipalities shows that this general responsibility is not sufficient to ensure the homeless decent housing conditions. We therefore propose that municipalities not only have a general responsibility in this context, but that they should have a clear duty to provide sustainable housing. This obligation must apply at least to those who come out after being in prison or in an institution. They are in such a vulnerable and difficult situation that the municipalities must have a very clear obligation to address them. I am disappointed that the majority does not want to extend the responsibilities of municipalities in terms of housing for disadvantaged people. The majority point to the fact that the Government for the autumn will promote a national plan to combat homelessness and, in addition, a major communication on housing policy. It is legitimate to hope that these two documents contain measures to improve the situation of people with difficulty in finding a good and durable dwelling. An overall size of the population says in the configuration today that they support the intention to remedy the difficult situation of the homeless, but the majority do not support the proposals for action. So for the autumn, the Storting will have a new chance, and then it's hoping that the majority will do more than share SV's concerns and support our intentions. Concerns and good wishes do not help people living on the streets. Only concrete actions and follow-up to the imposition of increased responsibilities and resources can address these issues. But after the right posts here in the hall today, I have no faith that the two mentioned documents will contain anything that will solve anything for the homeless. The representative Heieren Hundhammer is obviously much more concerned about municipal politicians who get to promise down the ears, as she said, than she is for people who live on the street. The right has no proposals for action in this matter; they show no willingness to give municipalities an economic boost. Thus, the situation of the homeless will remain poor. The representative Heieren Hundhammer says she has great faith that the municipalities will be able to solve this. It is possible that Heieren Hundhammer does, but there are over 6,000 homeless people in today's Norway, and I think it is quite irresponsible not to try to put in place concrete measures to correct this. I then take up the suggestions that SV has made in the setting, either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e783	The representative, Sigbjørn Molvik, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e786	Norway is proud to have been nominated by the United Nations for the second consecutive year of the world’s best nation to live in. When we have nearly 6,000 homeless people at the same time, this challenges us in a special way. The Government of Bondevik I acknowledged this problem and said in the reply that it is not acceptable that such a large group of people do not have a place to live in Norway. The Christian People's Party is grateful that the Salvation Army and other non-governmental organizations provide shelter for the disadvantaged, but, like the rest of the committee, the Christian People's Party is concerned that persons who have been released from prison or just completed an institutional stay are often referred to as a temporary solution. For people who have been in rehabilitation for a long time for their drug problem, coming back and meeting the environments with which they have wanted to break. Someone will do it, but I think that for most people, the forecast will be better if they get to start over in a carefree environment. The Christian People's Party is concerned that each individual is given help in the field of well-being, good protection and close follow-up. According to the Social Services Act, municipalities have responsibility for housing provision for two different groups. According to § 4-5, the municipality is obliged to find temporary housing for those who do not manage themselves. According to § 3-4, the social service shall help to provide housing for persons who are unable to take care of their own interests in the housing market. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a significant extension of the municipality's responsibility if the municipality should be obliged to provide permanent housing for the homeless. We do not support the proposal, but we remind you that, after the co-operation administration has submitted the municipal economic proposal for 2004, it should be a good idea for municipalities to give priority to this group. Municipalities receive the strongest growth in their income in several years. The house bank has received more funds both for housing support and housing grants, and the loan framework has been extended in particular. The time for operating a loan has been extended from 30 to 50 years. This reduces the costs for municipalities and allows lower rents. Increased resources have also been proposed to municipalities to provide better housing, guidance and follow-up to disadvantaged people. The government is submitting an owner-occupiers’ report for the autumn. The national plan to combat homelessness becomes an integral part of it. In this way, the Government follows up what was announced in the Anti-Sampling message and in the poverty message. The government is also concerned that the temporary accommodation must have a certain standard. Christian People's Party is pleased that the department has sent out a circular on quality requirements for temporary housing according to the social services law § 4-5. In order to reduce the need for temporary housing, it is important that we prevent, so that drug abuse and crime do not recur. Each individual must be followed up in a good manner. The goal must be for everyone to come to work. That way you can get yourself a home and start a new and better life.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e812	Today we have about 6,000 homeless people in the country. This is no new phenomenon. It was also pointed out in the aberration message some years ago that this was an unworthy phenomenon, which should be addressed. There are also other disadvantaged people in the housing market who have difficulty finding housing. And if they're able to get housing, it's often at such a price that they have trouble continuing to live there. So a social housing policy is very important. A good housing policy must ensure a reasonable and good housing in a good living environment. Those who are homeless or who have problems finding housing are a complex group with different problems and therefore many different measures have to be taken. It is not possible to solve the problems of the homeless with simple solutions and individual measures. We agree with the rapporteurs that it is unfortunate and unworthy that those who are homeless should not receive satisfactory housing, but are largely referred to the street or to poor housing solutions. This is particularly difficult when you know that people who come from an institution or prison, who are going to be in a positive rehabilitation phase, are referred to shelters or living environments that easily lead to relapses and major social problems. Many municipalities are making active efforts to provide disadvantaged homeless housing. However, the problem is that many municipalities have to cut off both jobs and measures that they want to maintain and develop further. That is why we believe that the most important thing that needs to be done now is to secure municipalities an economy that is consistent with tasks and resources. The municipal economy and the business framework of the Husbank are the two major keys to social housing and housing policies that also accommodate housing guidance and other social policy follow-up measures, in order to contribute to a good housing and rehabilitation policy for the homeless. The government has announced that it will make a housing announcement until the autumn with concrete proposals for financing housing for the homeless. The government will also come up with a national plan. I hope these will contain the tools that will do. I think that the particular post from the government party on the right was defensive and somewhat provocative in relation to the problems that lie in this matter. The centre party agrees with the proposers that the current host offer is too poor. It has varying quality. We therefore support the proposal presented in Document No. 8:104, that clear quality requirements are now attached to the provision of accommodation for temporary accommodation, until there are enough permanent dwellings. We believe that shelter is a bad form of accommodation. It was also said in the Innst. S. No 95 for 2002-2003. The funds used for host solutions today — and there are few — should be used in housing-social measures where one had permanent solutions that offered a completely different offer from the host solutions. The house bank must be the driver of the social housing programme. Local authorities need to be better able to follow-up, including: with social follow-up and housing guidance. These are among the most important points that a good housing policy, not least for the homeless, must contain. We also know that disabled people and people with other problems that make them difficult compared to an ordinary housing market have problems today. Some municipalities organise housing offers for these, but the investment costs are so high that it becomes too high housing costs, and therefore they cannot afford to live there without a very strong subsidy from the municipalities, if any. This has to be solved first, before one can impose larger tasks on the municipalities now, we believe. We believe that this must come in the housing message from the Government until the autumn. Then we will address proposals that will make this a reality. I also agree with the representative Eye that the voluntary actors we have, among other things. The Salvation Army and the Church Bymission must be active partners. The public must facilitate their participation and provide good social housing and housing guidance so that they can interact here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e831	First of all, I would like to stress that I fully share the commitment of the proposers to the difficult situation of the homeless. There are too many people who don't have a home that they can call their home. The government is concerned that both necessary and effective measures are being taken to prevent and combat homelessness. I'm also glad that it's a broad political uprising and therefore also an engagement related to this. As indicated in my letter to the Committee, I believe that the proposal presented is both practical and in principle in the current division of responsibility for public housing policy. I have noticed that the majority of the committee seems to agree with this, because they believe that the proposal for a municipal obligation to provide homeless long-term housing involves too much expansion of the municipality's responsibilities. Moreover, it is already the case today that municipalities have a clear responsibility to ensure temporary housing, cf. Paragraphs 4 to 5 of the Act. In order to prevent homelessness, the Government rates on a wide range of instruments: In December 2002, the government sent out a circular to the municipalities and public authorities providing guidance on how these can help individuals to master their housing situation better. It is a joint housing social circular in cooperation between the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs. The government continues Project homeless, which is a methodological and model development project involving seven metropolitan municipalities and three non-governmental organisations. They're going to have $10.5 million. kr. Per. Today there are 24 housing and follow-up measures during testing. Most municipalities report a reduction in the use of the hostel, and it also appears that the municipalities are very concerned about this. The government has allocated 19 million. DKK to six major cities to strengthen the regular provision of services in municipalities, so that they can assist people in need of follow-up in order to master a housing relationship – some people need help to live. The municipalities that now receive funds are Bergen, Drammen, Oslo, Kristiansand, Stavanger and Trondheim. The government has also set aside $3 million. kr for research on homelessness. The Norwegian Construction Research Institute is entrusted with the task of carrying out a national survey of the extent of homelessness and who is affected. The numbers we have today are from 1996. Fafo has also been entrusted with the task of identifying what follow-up in housing involves and the results of follow-up for the homeless. For the Government, it is an objective to increase the freedom and space of the municipalities. Therefore, the Government has also proposed a significant increase in the free revenues of the municipality. The House Bank has also received more funds for both the loan framework, housing grants and housing support, as well as the proposed increased resources for the follow-up and guidance of municipalities in housing-social work. The government will address both practical and principal issues related to groups that are weak in the housing market in its housing report for the autumn. We all agree on temporary housing, such as housing. hospital, there is no ideal housing. However, whether we want it or not, it will always be possible for different reasons to arise in situations where a temporary housekeeping is absolutely necessary. However, the key here will be the nature and quality of the offer. On 3 June the Ministry therefore sent out a circular on quality guidance for temporary housing. It is precisely the intention of the circular to focus on the quality of the offer given and that municipalities are aware of this when the municipalities are to conclude such agreements. It is a goal that as many as possible can acquire a dwelling that they can call their home. It is also important that we take the measures that contribute to this. Several such measures have been taken by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e860	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e863	With so much enthusiasm on behalf of the homeless, it can't take very long before we've got rid of the homeless. I want to start by quoting the representative Heieren Hundhammer, who says: ‘The proposal that municipalities be obliged to provide a permanent housing offer to individuals will change the entire public housing policy.’ Yeah, that's exactly what's the point. I do not think there are many in Norway who will characterise a housing policy that has resulted in 6,000 homeless people, as being particularly successful. The aim of this proposal is to change the whole of public housing policy. So it is said that SV does not trust the municipalities. That's not what this is about. This isn't about trust, it's about taking inwards that we have 6,000 homeless people in this country, who don't have an anchor party in their lives, so they can live their lives in freedom, which right-wing representatives might be interested in. I honestly think that the Right could be honest enough to say that this is really about the placeless being quite far down on the economic priority list of the Right Party, instead of saying that this is about trust. Housing is a human right, so it's not for no reason. My soul is in the Justice Committee, and I see quite often what happens when people don't have a place to live, and especially when it comes to drug users, especially when they get out of prison. We may have invested a lot of money in these people, trying to get them off the hook, working to make a change in behavior, so they don't come out as criminals. And then the post-protection fails, time and time again. One of the most pointless things I can imagine is that we spend a lot of money on people trying to get them on the right cool, and then just let them go completely after they come out of the way, for example. an institution. It's a pointless use of public funds. At the same time, I believe it is an investment in crime and misery. And it punishes itself, we see it all the time. There has been a part that has highlighted the importance of the voluntary initiative, and I share that view. But what I think is going to be so wrong is that you kind of leave this to volunteers, for example. The Church's Bymission. I've seen a guy, a drug addict without a leg, being carried up to the second floor of the Church's Bymission. He doesn't get a residence at the municipality because he's a drug addict. It's so unworthy! Why shouldn't he have the same offer we have? Why shouldn't he have the same freedom that we have? Is this really about missing identification with the lowest on the rank ladder? But with such a strong commitment as we've seen from all of the parties here, it can't take long before anything is done in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e879	The exposure is there, but the question is just how to solve this. And I think SV often speaks with two tongues. At the March national meeting, they agreed very well, among others. in the case of municipal freedom. For example, the State governs the municipalities today, and SV has decided that the wisdom is evenly distributed around the country, and will therefore give people direct influence over their own lives, and municipalities should have freedom from detailed management. Very good! We fully agree with that. But then not many days before they run away from this, last in connection with the Document No. The 8-proposal we are discussing here today, where one proposal is that municipalities should have a duty to ensure that persons are accommodated, another is that the State should draw up quality requirements for temporary overnight stays to be followed by municipalities. Does SV really not think that the municipalities are doing something themselves? How do you really feel about the wisdom of the municipalities? In the right, we actually have faith in the municipalities, and it actually turns out that they're doing the problem. Oslo, I think, is a good example. It's right-dominated. No Marte Thorkildsen thinks the homeless are getting far down on the priority list. Rather the opposite, they don't. In the evening post a few days ago, we could read that Lae, the mayor of Oslo – who is from the Right – took the break of the hospitshaies. The number of people at the hostel in Oslo has been reduced from more than 1 000 a few years ago to now 250, and quality requirements have been introduced, without the state having so requested. The right-wing-dominated city council has actually been occupied by the homeless, concerned that they should be well, concerned that there should be quality requirements. In Oslo, there is also a residential chain. You try to place people in the right place by taking advantage of the 12,000 municipal housing – actually quite much better than many others – and you start a refurbishment project, and you have a bottling. Woie Duesund said that Norway is the world’s best country to live in, and that there should not be such unworthy conditions that anyone has on the housing market. Oslo is named for Europe's environmental city, and one of the criteria is how to deal with the disadvantaged. We're going to keep doing that. I am pleased that Oslo has come so far, I am glad that the Government also takes this seriously and comes with a housing message for the autumn. Together, I think you actually have to be able to solve the problem. But, please, let the municipalities get the peace and the freedom to do the job they're going to do. Then all the experience shows that it actually works.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e892	I think the representative Molvik must have had plugs in my ears when I kept my post, because he said that the government has not come up with any concrete measures, but has just come up with beautiful words. I can't repeat everything I said in my post, but I said, among other things. that the House Bank has been given more funding for both housing support, housing grants and increased loan frameworks and that the fight against homelessness within these funds should be given top priority. It is also pointless to hear that the Right and Government would be more concerned that we should not try to keep our ears shut over the municipalities than to help the homeless, when, at the same time, we are doing a strong strengthening of the local economy to the next year that will give the municipalities an increased space for action, precisely to solve the challenges of the homeless. And we believe, on the contrary, that promises are not conducive to solving the problems of the homeless, rather it is to give the municipalities greater freedom that will provide solutions. It is also important to stress that helping the homeless is so much more than giving them a home. It's also about being able to keep the dwelling that you have, help fix the economy, pay bills, help with daily tasks, and this is exactly where the municipality is central. Therefore, we must give broad, free powers to the municipalities to help these people on a broad basis, not just to provide housing. Unlike SV, we believe that it is not that the more important the task is, the more distrust we have that the municipality will solve the problem. It's not the importance of the task that's right to measure by, it's the appropriateness. And it's the municipalities that are best suited to solving the problem of the homeless, and then they have to get the freedom they need. And Oslo has shown, as Heidi Larssen said in his post, that it goes on. In 1998, users of the hostel were 1 000 people. Now it's down to 263. They are on the right track to solve the problem even where you still have to use the hospital, by only making new agreements with hospitals that have a quality agreement. There was someone who was provoked by my post and I did not think that I was humble enough in relation to the problem that occurred. Well, I'm very humble, and that's why I think it's naive to think that these proposals that are here today should be something seductive, seductive and lead to any solution. For homelessness is a far too serious and complex problem for it, and the main debate on this problem is going to take us to the autumn. But what is absolutely certain is that we need different types of instruments, and we need close cooperation between several different institutions and agencies. It is incredibly important to provide a good solution for the individual that there is a tightly structured programme for the individual user that takes care of many different aspects. In this respect, with changed housing policies, on which the representative Thorkildsen was involved, the key point is to see the difference between, for example: Government and SV policies. This proposal that SV has is a general measure to take care of all the homeless, but what we do is to target the measures against those who really need it, through the House Bank. We don't have to change the entire public housing policy to help them, but we need an even stronger degree of targeting to help those who really need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e905	I understand that the Right needs to make this a debate on municipal freedom or not freedom rather than a debate on the issue, namely the homeless. I fully agree with Heieren Hundhammer, who now in his last post said that these three proposals that we are now promoting, are nothing seductive, seductive. I also said that, and clarified in my post that these are three suggestions that we have faith in, by many and by others that need to be made. To municipal freedom: The experience shows that if the municipalities just get permission, they can do it. Yes, I do not doubt the willingness of the municipalities to do this. If the Municipality of Oslo has managed to make improvements in the area of the hospital, I'm glad. But what it says is often the ability of the municipalities. And combined with the proposals we are now promoting in relation to increased municipal responsibility, we also have proposals for a municipal economy that will enable the municipalities to improve the housing situation for the homeless. It is not the will of the municipalities this is about. For the main municipal freedom that SV is talking about, but which Right is not talking about, the economic freedom of the municipalities is. There is nothing to help municipalities – or at least it helps very little for municipalities – that within the narrow framework of today’s society, some earmarked grants are removed and put into the framework. Frame doesn't get bigger for that reason. Right? They're saying they're going to bring an increase for next year at something over $4 billion, I guess. If you go in and look at what it's all about, and look at developments otherwise, lower tax revenue than what's already increasing in the number of older people, the number of school students, etc., and if you add this, you'll see that there's no real increase in this. There's no real growth, and that's what municipal freedom is also about.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e916	I just got access to the quarterly report from the Husbank for the first quarter of 2003, and thought it might be interesting reading for more than those who signed it. There is a lot of decorating of the House Bank, and it is going to get so much bigger frames and bigger possibilities. Now it's right from Beate Heieren Hundhammer's side that Right wants to target the measures. All the way, we're going to make sure that only those who just need it are going to get help. Sometimes you can get the idea that it's better that someone who needs it doesn't get it than that someone who doesn't need it actually gets it. One of the things that emerges from this quarterly report from the House Bank is that there are 5,914 dwellings in progress, and that is the same level as last year. The real estate bank's share of this is 45 pst. That's 15 pst. reduction. Of these, 212 are for students and 11 are for homeless people. So it's full stop in the construction of nursing homes for psychiatric patients. Municipalities are hesitating, because there are operating costs associated with manning. Only 237 dwellings are approved for housing grants for establishment, and of rental housing that has received a grant, there has been a dramatic decline – this is the House Bank's own vocabulary. Only 182 dwellings have received such a grant, and it is down to 72 pst. Of these, 16 are rental homes for the homeless. The point is that I think the commitment of this hall must result in completely concrete measures and money on the table. Because if that is not the case, there will still be great concern from this House in debate after debate without anything happening. We might even be happy that it's not homeless on all the rows up here, looking down at us and thinking, what kind of gang is this? They don't really care about us, but they like to hit the chest in relation to our situation. Homelessness is so incredibly serious, because it's about you not having the freedom of your own life. It's about you not having a chance to get out of a criminal racetrack, for example, that you can't do it on your own. Then we cannot leave to non-governmental organisations to sort out what should really be a public responsibility, that is, to uphold the human rights of the United Nations, that people should have a place to live.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e929	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3164]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e948	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3165]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e966	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3165]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e984	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3166]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1002	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3166]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1020	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3166]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1038	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3166]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1046	Then we're ready to vote on the issues that are listed on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1053	During the debate, Mr Ellingsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals which, in child abduction cases, will: 1st@item: inlistbox Extend access to custody of child abductors upon return to Norway.2. Increase the possibilities of seizing the assets of child-rearers in Norway.3. Consider making child evictions an immediate grounds for divorce.’» It's going to go first over the points 1 and 2. The central party has announced that they will give their support.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1076	The president understands that someone has voted wrong. The President makes it clear, for the last to arrive in the Chamber, that it is not permissible to sit after a case has been brought up to vote. And as far as the president understands the whipping here, that's bad enough as it is. The proposal by the Labour Party and the Progress Party, points 1 and 2, is being re-voted. So the central party has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1094	It is then voted on paragraph 3 of the motion by the Labour Party and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1150	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr André Kvakkestad on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 27 May 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit an evaluation of the law with any proposals for necessary amendments, after two years’ operation of the law.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1168	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Inga Marte Thorkildsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 27 May 2003: ‘The Government is asked to prohibit, as soon as possible, wolf hybrids, American Stapfordshire terriers and mixtures in which these breeds are included.’ Trond Helleland – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1176	This proposal is from the debate on the dog law. This proposal from SV is what is closest to what the government parties and the government initially agreed to, so I would recommend the representatives of the government parties to vote in favour of the SV proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1187	The President voted against. This does not mean that the Socialist Left proposal is inconceivable. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 12.07.34]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1193	President! I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1200	Then we'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1212	We're going to assume that there's a crack in the parts and there's nothing wrong with the composition of the Storing!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1219	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 27 May 2003: ‘The ruling requires the Government to provide that a derogation from the prohibition on the keeping of specified breeds of dogs is conditional on the sterilisation of the animal and that it has proof of identity linking the dog to a certificate of registration stating the name and address of the owner and showing that the dog has been bred, introduced or kept before the entry into force of the law. If the conditions are violated or the dogs attack people, the dogs shall be killed by decision of the police."
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1237	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 27 May 2003: ‘The ruling requests the Government to submit proposals for the compulsory labelling of dogs during the current ageing period.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1253	There is a vote on proposals submitted by Odelstinget on 27 May 2003: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals to the Grand Duchy on legal remedies to ensure that health professionals and other public authorities report to the relevant public authority on unacceptable dog keeping despite the obligation of professional secrecy imposed on previously.’ The President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1273	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 27 May 2003: ‘The Government is asking the Government to draw up legislative proposals to allow non-governmental organisations to require a limited police record of their employees.The Government is asking the Government to make such a proposal as soon as possible.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1306	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Sigbjørn Molvik on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, the proposals No. 2 and 3, from Sigbjørn Molvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to promote the necessary legislative changes to give municipalities an obligation to provide housing for persons who do not have a suitable place to live when they come from prison or institution.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government of the notified housing message to come back with an assessment of whether the municipalities should be responsible for providing residenceless permanent housing.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1337	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to draw up quality requirements for temporary accommodation sites to which the municipality refers homeless under social services law.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1352	President! Can the vote be taken again? I think there's been a mistake in voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1359	It was so hard today! Let's do this exercise again.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1373	I took over as a whipper this morning, and I just wondered if we were too many. That's why there's become sour in the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1380	The President does not ignore the fact that it can vote. Decisions taken by the Stortinget cannot be repeated at all times, but the President nevertheless proposes that we take the vote on case No. 10 again.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1385	Three representatives may proceed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1392	This has not happened before, but now it happens!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1395	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1402	Mr Ryan has asked to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1405	As new at Stortinget, I have a question, as we are clearly the wrong number in the hall. In Case No. 4 was also very similar to voting – there was one voice that signposted. Should you not, when there is the wrong composition in the hall, also take the matters where clearly the result has been wrong because of the wrong composition, again?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1412	It's not coming up! It's really not the President's job to make sure that the replacement is appropriate. And when no one said off or protested against that vote, the President considers it valid. Now, on the other hand, we have another situation, where the question has been raised before the President has clubbed the final vote. Mr Hagen has asked to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1424	I would like to give full support to what the President has just said. The fact that the batch groups work between themselves through the whipping system to assemble the Size so that it reflects the choice result is well known. The size of the organ is unknown to such a system. The size as a body is all those present when a case is raised to voting, and after that case is finally closed, it is not access to, as I read the Rules of Procedure – unless it is brought to an end – to take that matter up again. However, it will of course always be possible to change policy decisions through subsequent treatment in other new economies. But when a case is settled, it is settled. If changes to the system are to be made in such a way as it was suggested that the Storting should approve the composition of each time we have a vote, nothing can be done until it is provided for in the Rules of Procedure and the Presidency has discussed this, if necessary. I think that when there's some kind of a mistake, we don't have to change the whole system for that reason. It tends to seem pretty good. But we want to oppose going back on the agenda to take matters up again for voting when no one says they have voted incorrectly. Someone must report that the vote is wrong, before you can take a vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1435	The President has expressed the President's view of the Rules of Procedure at this point. I have to say, like the representative Hagen, that I'm really worried if you're going to go back and vote again on things that you've already voted on. I accept, however, that we take a new vote in case No. 10, because the question was raised before the president had clubbed. Mr Andersen – on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1440	The President's order is correct, but I think it should be in the Minutes that I think it is regrettable that this has happened. It is obvious that some votes here today have received a different result from what reflects the will of the Storting. I think that should be recorded in the Minutes. Otherwise, I join the President's orders.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1446	What Karin Andersen says will be in the minutes of this meeting, so it should be unnecessary to record anything. Trond Helleland – on a point of order. It's going to be the last one.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1451	I do not doubt the correctness of the voting that has been done, but what has happened here is that a party group has admitted that it has had too many inside the room. So the voting has been done in a way that makes the lot overrepresented. No one has voted wrong. Everyone has voted correctly, but there have been too many. It's a little difficult for us to be the majority in two cases, to be able to control how other parties have put together their big group. I accept the vote, but I also want to say this for the record, because in the question of the dog law and in another case it was a wrong vote result.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1456	Then we should be done with this round. We're going to re-voting on case No. 10 and starting with the proposals No. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to promote the necessary legislative changes to give municipalities an obligation to provide housing for persons who do not have a suitable place to live when they come from prison or institution.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government of the notified housing message to come back with an assessment of whether the municipalities should be responsible for providing residenceless permanent housing.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1478	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to draw up quality requirements for temporary accommodation sites to which the municipality refers homeless under social services law.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1507	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Asmund Kristoffersen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 5 June 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government, in cooperation with the industry, to take the initiative of setting up a main industry organisation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1525	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Central Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 5 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to include acupunctures and homeopaths in the investigation to be made for osteopathy and naprapathy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1543	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Central Party, sent from the Odelstinget meeting on 5 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider granting authorisation to acupuncture officers under Section 48 of the Health Personnel Act, provided that the acupuncture student has a general education at acupuncture level and is properly trained in acupuncture.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1561	There is a vote on the proposal by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progress Party, transmitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 5 June 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to consider allowing reimbursement for acupuncture as an independent speciality regardless of whether the acupuncturist has an independent health profession or not.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1579	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 5 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to take the initiative of a formalised semi-public training council in the field of alternative treatment, partly funded by the public sector. The Council shall preferably be composed of representatives of the performing organisations, the private training institutions of the industry and of public authorities.’.» The President expects the Right, the Socialist Left, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10.ana.ud1780e1599	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 5 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess different models that can better take account of the fact that it is always worthwhile to work more for persons who receive temporary disability allowance or disability pension and return to the Stortinget.’
