ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e41	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e66	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party and Socialist Left Party 15 minutes each, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e77	Once again, the Defence Committee delivers a budgetary position based on a broad and solid majority of the parties in the Stortinget. It creates security and ensures predictability for a very variable period of time, both for defence and for civil protection. The budget proposal shows that the migration process as adopted in 2001 and 2002 is on track. The defence is changing systematically, from a traditional invasion defence based on a large mobilization force to a more mobile response defense. Flexibility is one keyword and capacity operation another. The effective defence capability will depend on the quality and competence of the forces. The ability to convert and redeploy shall be made a permanent part of the defence's activities and capabilities. The most striking premise for the change process is that the defence of Norwegian citizens and Norwegian interests is put in focus, instead of the defence of Norwegian borders. The enemy is known to be rolling in armored vehicles from the east. The enemy is more indefinable and not least unpredictable. Terror hits when we least expect it. Norwegian citizens and Norwegian interests can be attacked both here at home and elsewhere in the world. ‘A Brotherhood of Terrorists’ was the new defence referred to by TV 2 a few days ago, in a very informative program. The overall defence policy must help to put individual citizens' security at the centre. It also means new forms of cooperation between civil and military preparedness and increasingly wider and deeper cooperation and cross-border interdependence. The Committee also emphasises in its position increased awareness-raising as an important part of the fight against terrorism and the prevention of threats to Norwegian citizens and Norwegian interests. The budgetary position is probably somewhat influenced by the fact that we are waiting for a long-term proposition, in which we will have proposals for structural changes in several areas. These include: on Home Security, the Army, security measures and training of officers. In addition, there is a proposal on the Defence Logistics Organisation in the Committee. We have, of course, left that issue in the budgetary position. We'll get back to December 16th. It may be noted that the majority of the committees have pushed forward some of the status-enhancing measures for those who are expected to be protected in the long-term perspective. The Workers' Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have, at internal arrangements, increased the dividend compensation in addition to the proposal of the Government. This means that the amount of the soldiers who complete the initial service in 2004 actually increases from approx. 7 000 more kroner above 8 500 kroner. In my opinion, this should also be continued in the long-term proposition for spring. We have also pushed a little of another area that is important for the declining proportion of Norwegian youth admitted to first-time employment, namely the opportunities to use part of the time to acquire skills that are relevant for future careers. Being able to receive vocational training or take weights that can be integrated into the new Bachelor’s degree at universities and colleges is stimulating to be able to remain in the first cycle of service. Therefore, an overall committee stresses that adult training resources in the Defence must be used for the purchase of training places on the requested course, and that adult training must be rationalised in order to achieve this. I also expect that the size of the long-term proposal will be proposed for both changes to the organisation of the protection obligation, further status-enhancing measures and the obligation to sit for women. It is important to get the best of both sexes in the future defense. I would also like to stress that it is the need of defence that must be decisive for which soldiers and how many guardians and others it really needs. Or to say it with the newspaper last Sunday: «More girls. Better training. Fewer soldiers. Better educated. More available’» So that's how the new defense is going to be. The 2004 budget setting will also help us to take the right steps. This budgetary position restores a military presence and a commander at the Oscarsborg fortress. A new military presence shall ensure that the attachment retains its military characteristics and that official acts are respected. Oscarsborg is perhaps the most important defence and cultural historical memorial in Norway. Here the Germans were torpedoed on April 9, 1940, so that royal houses, governments, and big ones could be covered. I am pleased that there has finally been political agreement on the further development of Oscarsborg. At the same time, let me remind you that a unanimous committee has repeatedly asked for feedback on the handling of other attachments and other buildings of cultural historical value. There are several different comments and leads to a review of an unfortunate outcome of the Invoicing Scheme in the Defence, mainly with regard to the requirement for rent from the Defence Military Organisation to the Defence Building Innovation. It is important that expensive schemes do not lead to increased red tape and increased expenditure. And we have to put an end to the absurd and parody examples that Defence Buildings have managed to perform, that rent on well-being buildings traveled on hard by guardians, or rent for runways. This is simply a delay – I am a little uncertain whether the word deaf is parliamentary, but I am taking the chance anyway. Defence construction is also one of the main actors in a conflict between the Defence and Rissa Municipality about the sale of Hysnes Fort, a conflict that has been up in several major debates. I would like to mention in particular the interference of Gunnar Halvorsen from April this year. A unanimous committee now asks the parties to reach an agreement. That means that defence buildings have to meet Rissa. And, as far as I know, the municipality has also been offered a much lower price. It must be possible to come down even further in order to put an end to that matter. Our security policy framework conditions and our neighbourhoods are changing rapidly. NATO Summit in 2002 launched, among other things: Prague Capabilities Commitment and NATO Response Force – in many ways a genius after NATO was increasingly regarded as a defence-policy chat club, or at least an alliance that had greater political significance than a military one. A defence alliance needs military facilities to have political authority. The Prague Capabilities Commitment ensures this authority, including that of NATO's European Member States. At the same time, after 11 September 2001 and the relationship between Europe and the United States, the threat has led to new security policy debates. NATO has now demonstrated its strength and competence by taking over the command of the ISAF force in Afghanistan, a force that is currently unanimous in this House that we are going to participate in. At the same time, the issue of the relationship between a new and enlarged EU and an enlarged NATO is becoming increasingly topical. The EU consensus a few days ago on a European defence policy puts Norway in a straitjacket. We have one security policy leg to stand on as long as we're outside EU cooperation, and that's NATO. But it is serious if Norway is to lose influence over security policy on our own continent, not least in the light of the challenges posed by Norwegian coastal surveillance and Norwegian jurisdiction over sea areas seven times our territory. The fact that we are outside development in Europe has one immediate consequence: that it is still the transatlantic ties that are the strongest security guarantee for Norway. That's the way it is as long as we're outside the EU and the development that's going on there. We're probably going to do that for a long time. It's a TV series that starts with, "You don't believe it until you see it." This also applies, inter alia, to: part of the evolution in the EU. What is amazing is that it is happening much faster than we think, and it is also about security policy and defence policy in Europe. So we have NATO to deal with. We have transatlantic cooperation. We have our leading allies on the other side of the Atlantic. It's on good and bad, we like it or not. With this, I recommend the majority position of the committee. Other representatives of the Workers' Party will explain the views of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e122	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e125	There are often small details that create large waves. The committee leader was in the municipality of Hysnes and Rissa. There is a proposal that I certainly do not know will be put to the vote once, because there is doubt in the Stortinge's office whether the proposal is within the rules applicable to such things. But it says straight out: ‘The Government asks the Government to contribute to the ‘Hysnes clay’ being transferred to Rissa Kommune free of charge or at significantly reduced prices.’ Fortunately, now we have a majority comment that goes in a different direction. And I would like to ask the committee leader to confirm that it is important that we send a crystal clear message from Stortinget that negotiations on Hysnes Fort should take place between Defence Building and Rissa Municipality, so that there is no one on the sideline standing in the way to find a practical solution between the two parties involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e135	Yeah, it's really paradoxical. We are dealing with a budget of approx. 29 billion kroner, the 2004 Defence budget, and we are addressing important security policy issues. What has taken a lot of work, however, is the issue of the disposal of a defence plant in the municipality of Rissa. We have a unanimous remark – what is important with that comment, in fact, is that it is unanimous – where we say that it is important that the parties reach agreement. But it also states that Defence Building cannot three down the head of Rissa municipality at a price that the municipality does not accept. It is no secret that the Workers' Party belongs to them in this Chamber who have considered that Rissa qualified for the comment contained in the budget position last year that the disposal of defence facilities below market prices should apply only to some highly affected municipalities. Rissa has been thought to belong to that category.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e142	As for the last point, if Rissa quickly, we will come back to it later in the debate. I noticed that the representative Nybakk did not get into one of the biggest purchases we are going to make, namely the purchase of fighter aircraft. I want to quote what Marit Nybakk said on 19 June 2002 during the negotiations in Stortinget: ‘With regard to the development agreement that has now been concluded with Joint Striker, we have also said that that agreement can be terminated if it turns out that we do not get Norwegian industry into this programme. I have also said quite clearly that I believe that it should be terminated. I would also like to point out that the Council of State has said that she will come back to the committee for the autumn with a statement on how far she has come to work to involve Norwegian industry, which is essential for us." I expect the Council of State to come back to this in its article and explain the status. Now the Progress Party, SV and the Center Party in the configuration proposed... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e158	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e161	Then I'll come back to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e166	I think I perceived the question anyway. The Labour Party is still positive that we continue to participate in the development agreement on Joint Strike Fighter. We believe that this is the only way to secure Norwegian industrial contracts in the project. But we assume – and I would like to stress this – that the Government continues to do an active work to ensure that Norwegian companies participate in this project. Everyone knows that there will be no air purchase in this Stortinget without Norwegian industry. So well, most of us know the majority of us in this big thing. I also think it is important that Norway has joined the Industrial Participation Agreement with Eurofighter, and that participation in both of these programmes should now ensure Norwegian industry both competence, research and development and industrial production.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e175	In a short time, Stortinget will receive a statement from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on Norway’s participation in international military operations. We are pleased about this in SV, but it would be a great advantage if the Storting had also had more information and a better decision-making basis in advance of this budgetary procedure in terms of what is ‘backed’ in the budget with regard to international operations, in order to use the terminology of the majority committee. There is not a single word about the extension of the strength contribution in Iraq in the budget paper, just a general description of what has been going on until now. However, in the request for budgetary work, a sentence appeared in the position of the Workers’ Party, the Right and the Christian People’s Party, which states that a ‘takes note’ of the fact that the appropriations for a continuation in Iraq are ‘backed in the budget’. The confusion arises when the representative Nybakk tells the Newspaper yesterday that she has not taken a decision on the question of the continuation of the force in Iraq. After all, SV is pleased that the money for the Iraq Force is now at least included in the defence budget and not in the aid budget. But is the Chairman of the Committee satisfied with the way in which the Government has consulted the Stortinget on the question of whether to extend the mandate of the Norwegian strength contribution beyond the period for which the majority of the population joined this summer? And what does the representative Nybakk think about the Norwegian contribution today? Would it be right for Norway to give priority to this, even if it is not possible to contribute in Sudan?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e185	The size has been briefed on several occasions, including: in a hearing with the Council of State on 12 November, and also in a letter to the Group of the Centre Party in connection with the financial situation, and of course in other appropriate forums. However, this will be dealt with on 17 December in the Stortinget, and the Labour Party has not taken a position on the continuation of the Iraqi exposure, but will do so in the context of that debate. We support the force that is now there. It's there on the basis of a United Nations resolution. It is an engineering company that performs excellent work, as far as I have been able to register. We were very clear that the prerequisite for our support was that they should not be mixed with the occupying forces. So we're going back to a continuation on December 17. The fact that it is in the budget is a matter of course if the government proposes it. It is precisely the discussion that this should not go beyond the aid budget, which means that it is now also in the budget. But it can be redispatched if the Storting comes to a different conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e192	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e195	First pretty short to the last line. As I said, there are also positions in the Financial Committee these days. On a question, otherwise from the Center Party, it is said from the Ministry of Finance: ‘Norway is continuing military engineering support in southern Iraq, initially until the summer of 2004. Any continuation and further alignment of the Norwegian contribution will be assessed in the light of the mandate situation for Iraq at that stage, the actual needs of Iraq, and the current security situation in the area of operation.» So much has been said, without any objection from any of the parties to the Financial Committee. Then to the main theme. Both the 2003-2004 budget proposal, the current state of play and today’s debate are undoubtedly marked by the fact that there are a few days before the Defence Director will make his military professional investigation to the Defence Minister, who in turn, during the spring, will present to the Storting a long-term proposal for the Defence for the period 2005-2008. The plan period will thus be brought forward a year in relation to the planning period we are now in. In this way, we will have an overlap of the two planning periods that in 2005 can reinforce and ensure maximum speed and efficiency in the process of conversion Defence is now involved. The structure of the current period is continued according to the previous decision of the Storting, but we are not adding up to the projected increase in the 2004 budget, precisely because we want to see the relevance of some investment projects in relation to long-term developments. In this context, I refer to the constant attempts at haressal with the Defense because investments that were adopted and carried out under quite different conditions from those of the present must be reversed and converted. In an organisation that is so constantly changing, I don't think it's possible to completely avoid decisions that, in the postwar perspective, will be less fortunate, but we owe it at least to be as sure as possible that the investments we make are right in relation to the needs of the future. Just the conversion of the Defense will be my main concern in the rest of this post. Indeed, the defence implements the greatest transformation and the greatest efficiency ever of a particularly important, prestigious and traditional public enterprise. The traditions, the sense of duty and the awareness of the ultimate place of defence in the history of our nation lie in the organs of Defence. It is with great respect and admiration that I record that the armed forces take these traditions with them, while they, with impassionation and enthusiasm, end up with the absolutely necessary restructuring of the defence and a corresponding redefinition of what is the task of the defence. That's exactly why it's sad enough that some people are trying to create the impression that we have a defense in decline. The Army in particular receives this stamp. The stamp has been falsified. The army is at its highest elevation and ready for action. The army is smaller, but not worse. The army is well equipped and trained. And not least, the army is relevant to the needs of our time. This is not me, at least I'm not alone, who says. The general inspector of the Army, Major General Lars J. Silverberg, says this in the last edition of Pro Patria. There's been a lot of talk about the conversions. It's very understandable with all the people, all the departments and garrisons that are being affected. Unfortunately, there is less talk of what is more important in the future: what defence builds up, especially in terms of new skills, new capacities and new systems to run a $30 billion organisation in an efficient and meaningful way in the world's most dangerous profession. I would like to repeat "the world's most dangerous" but it is also one of the world's most meaningful and challenging jobs. That's exactly why I get really sad when sometimes the impression is created that the defense is not an organization that should attract the most motivated and ethically most conscious youth. I think we can achieve that by giving the right information about the Defence and Defence place in the threat picture we are facing today, by the opportunities we give this youth and the thanks and respect we show for their choices. And not least by showing unquestionable and unmistakable loyalty and support from the authorities, from the top management of the defence, from the magnificence and government, when our youth, from us, from the politicians, is ordered into the service of peace and in the fight against national or international terrorism. We plan many stimulating measures to the young people who are serving their duty of protection, and to the young people who choose Defense as their place of service for a shorter or longer period of their working time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e216	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e219	The representative, Mrs Næs, and also the representative, Mr Nybakk, are taking time to explain why they do not want to deal with the conciliation. The Chief of Defence expresses great concern in his considerations around the cut in the agreement, or that the parties to the agreement do not relate to it. That, as he points out, has quite significant consequences. They also use the long-term proposition as an excuse not to promote and not to compromise – we'll see what's going on. These are old tones. I have to say that I am disappointed with the Right, which has been a burden and a burden every year with the Progress Party in all budgetary conciliation and all budgets in the past. Now they've joined forces with the Working Party. The party of progress is now the only party that is standing by and will maintain the settlement that the settlement partners are now leaving. How does the representative here feel about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e226	The representative Width is hardly surprised when I tell him that it feels absolutely excellent. There's no excuses we're coming with. I also have to remind you that we are actually in government, so if someone joins someone – if that's the correct wording – it's actually the Workers' Party that joins us, and not the other way around. That's very good. I have to say, unfortunately, that Width again hangs up – as I tried to touch indirectly in my main post – in an attempt to pretend that we are now weakening the defense. That's the opposite we're doing. We have had to make certain adjustments to the investments, including: because we have shifted the planning periods, and also because there was a slightly different cash flow in connection with the MTB purchases. But we haven't touched on any of the investments that are going to carry out the tasks of particular danger that the Army and the Defence must do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e231	Well, I guess in the defense agreement, we were two parties. No one joined others. I share the representative Hernæs’ view of the development of Defence. I also agree that an impressive job is being done in the departments, not least by the officers who are now responsible for the conversion. So I'd like to ask Hernæs to confirm that among NATO's member countries, Norway spends the most money on the defense per. the population. Is it not also the case that we now receive recognition both for this and for the conversion and modernisation of defence that Norway actually implements, and that we are in NATO's grip on ensuring quality and a forward-looking defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e240	For example, there is agreement on the following points: As a result, you agree on most things, so I can join up to what Marit Nybakk says. I want to send a strong call – and I think it may not even be necessary – to the operative part of our defense that they listen more to what the Government says, what the great majority of the Stortinge say, and what NATO says, than to people who, despite having added an ambitious word like ‘progress’ to their party name, operate in the past all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e245	The defence budget will now be greatly reduced in relation to the measures that have previously been a wide-ranging agreement here in the United Kingdom, namely DKK 118 billion over the long term. It is particularly the army's investment that has to be postponed. Does the representative here believe that it is still possible to achieve the broad agreement, at NOK 188 billion, during the last year of the long term, or is it really right that the budget should be reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e250	In the case of reduced defence budgets, it is with respect to notifying a professional who speaks out. If we were to go in favour of the reduction that SV stands for, we would really have reason to say that we have no defence of relevant importance. I have not thought, despite the fact that it is certainly disappointing for the representative of Bjørklund, to conduct budgetary negotiations for 2005. I think we've managed to get through the next year's budget. But it is clear that the plan set out in the broad agreement is firm. Then we have to see how we deal with it in connection with the change of the planning period, as I have said, and the treatment of the budget not for next year, but for the year after.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e257	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e261	I just want to finish what I did not get completed in place of the reply exchange with the representative Nybakk. When she was so clear in 2002 on how to deal with this well-known flight purchase, I expect that she will support the proposal of the Progress Party, SV and the Center Party, where the intention, if not the word, is the same as what she said earlier: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit a review of the costs and results of the development agreements with JSF and Eurofighter.’ So for my post. During the consultations on the budget proposal, inter alia: three significant organisations, both civil and military, heard. I am thinking of the National Association of Technology Companies, the Joint Organisation of the Order and the Norwegian Association of Officers – three associations representing a significant number of employees in the Defence Agency. All three organisations expressed strong mistrust of the budget submitted. It used expression as a betrayal. I would like to point out once again that when these organizations, representing so many of the defence personnel, use such strong terms, it is serious and something you must definitely notice. Other organisations used rather less strong terms and wording during the hearings, but the intention was not to misunderstand: a strong signal of disappointment and distrust of the proposed budget and the parties behind it. A defence settlement may in itself be appropriate in order to provide predictability. The progress party has always believed that the agreement contained too little money, but it was a settlement that the defense could relate to. Now predictability is gone, and the deal contains even less money. In connection with St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001 concerning the conversion of the Defence during the period 2002-2005, the Chief of Defence said: ‘A consequence of both increased dependence on NATO and increased investment in international operations is an increase in material and training standards. This is due to the need for interoperability with our allies both materially and procedurally, combined with the personnel safety requirement. Thus, the former philosophy of dealing with material which was somewhat less modern cannot be used to the same extent, since in a number of cases it is almost only the best that is sufficient."He continues:"If a defence with these characteristics is to be established, three" – and I quote only the first – "constraints must be fulfilled: the defence budgets must be predictable and kept at the intended level". This is what our leading professional says in the field. Following the presentation of the budget of the year, the Chief of Defence said: ‘The budget is less than expected based on that underlying St Prop 55 and does not provide the predictability of the defence. Several investments that are an important prerequisite for the modernisation of the defence are being shifted. This has consequences for the operational capabilities of the Defence. The defence is concerned that the budget presented may have implications for the conversion objectives imposed on us by the Storting.' And on the other hand, «Important investment projects or parts of projects are deferred. This means that the modernisation of the defence capabilities underlying the current long-term proposition is not implemented during this period.» So this is what the head of defense says. This is serious, and the Progress Party has taken the consequences. If the Government Parties and the Workers' Party are not willing to follow up their previous decisions, the Advance Party shall do so for them. Therefore, in our alternative budget, we have proposed to restore the budget that is lacking in relation to the conciliation. The share of the defence budget in gross domestic product is an appropriate measure for each Member State. And it can also be added that Marit Nybakk uses a slightly different scale compared to the population. Many scales, land, etc. can be used. Someone is using, but the right thing, I think, must be relative to GDP. Norway's share of GDP was 3 pst. in 1990, while falling to 1.9 p.m. in 2000, it is projected to be there in the coming years if the signals given are followed up in relation to the budgets for the period up to 2005. The average for NATO countries is 2.2 pst. It should therefore be borne in mind that the minimum requirement for NATO candidate countries is that they have to reach 2 pst and that they are now making great efforts to meet this requirement. It should therefore be obvious that Norway is not below this limit. The Norwegian Defence Budget must therefore be raised to a minimum of 2 pst as soon as possible. GDP, i.e. EUR 31.2 billion in 2002. Although special conditions in the Norwegian economy related to oil and gas activity contribute to a relatively high GDP, we, however, as a nation, will be weighted by other countries on this comparative basis. I would like to stress that the Advance Party has always tried to defend what they have requested, namely predictability in the appropriations. The Progress Party is therefore disappointed on behalf of the Defence and all defence friends that the Government, with the support of the Workers' Party, once again violates the prerequisites for predictability. We therefore believe that the uncertainty that has now been created among the members of the defence staff and those responsible for the defence may result in a flight of personnel between civilians and military personnel. The result of unforeseeable policies may be the loss of large human resources, which the Defense will always need. I present the proposals included in the vote, from the Progress Party, from the Progress Party and the Centre Party and from the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e317	The representative Per Ove Wideth has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e322	The representative Width was very concerned about explaining how poor the reconciliation between the Workers' Party and the Government is. But I want to ask a question to the Progress Party. The party of progress has probably also noticed that the Ministry of Defence has difficulties in reducing the number of annual works in the Defence. I have looked at the main priorities of the Advance Party in the 2004 budget. It says that as a result of the size of the defence budget, the Progress Party fears greater insecurity among the defence staff and fears a flight of personnel among civilians and military personnel. I wonder if the Progress Party is no longer behind the goal of reducing defence by 5,000 employees over the current long term, as the party supported in the Innst. S. No 342 for 2000-2001. The Committee notes that the aim of the conversion was to save DKK 2 billion a year in operating costs and to reduce staffing by 5000 annual works.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e331	Yes, I am concerned about explaining the ‘budget failure’, as some organisations called it. It is very serious, and it intervenes in many aspects of the defense. I can't see that it has any relationship to what we've decided before, to reduce the number of employees. That is clearly still the case, and it is also clear from the Progress Party, because this is a plan that has been adopted. It is also in the budget. However, the reduction in the budget this time largely includes investments and material purchases. So, of course, we are still on the old proposal to which Lund refers, about reductions in defence, but it must be done in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e336	In this year's budgetary position, the Progress Party shall promote, inter alia: the following proposal: ‘The Government asks the Government to contribute to the ‘Hysnes clay’ being transferred to Rissa Kommune free of charge or at significantly reduced prices.’ This is, of course, to a reasonable extent, but it is only in the last year's budgetary position that the Progress Party has put forward the following proposals: «The size consents to:1. The Ministry of Defence for 2003 may:(a) dispose of real estate whatever its value at market prices». And then my question is, is it that during the last year, FrP has also lost faith in the market economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e359	No, the Progress Party has not lost faith, but we may be a little bit concerned that Defence Building is not able to dispose of these properties at the price they really should, and that it takes too long. So as far as this particular proposal is concerned, it's going to be a national cancer center, and we think it's such a great value that here we can go a little bit beyond the old assumptions. Now it is also true that we can dispose of properties for particularly vulnerable municipalities in connection with the last year's budget. Now, this municipality may not be particularly vulnerable, but nevertheless I believe that the purpose here is so essential that this part has great faith in the Advancement Party that we are going to do in a proper way. Here we are in favour of it being disposed of on the basis to which our proposal refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e368	Kjetil Bjørklund – for line. It's better for those who have never believed that the market has any role to play in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e373	In fact, the party of progress and SV is often united when it comes to reducing waste in the defence. But when it comes to the budget, we divide as known quite well. On different occasions SV has documented that the defense spends a lot of money without a demonstrable effect. How does the Progress Party believe that defence should reduce efforts on projects without demonstrable impact? What tools will the Progress Party implement?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e380	It may seem strange to many that SV and the Progress Party share a common view of very many things in the budget – from slightly different points of view, correctly, but nevertheless. And we are, in fact, also promoting, to a great extent, common proposals, as opposed to some others. How we're going to promote the effect that Bjørklund had on, is a slightly larger story and impossible to give a real answer to in a short line. However, we have pointed to a good deal in the budget position that will help promote measures that Bjørklund calls for, and I ask him to read it if necessary. I can't do it in 10 seconds now – which has become 9 in the meantime – to explain all that the question from Bjørklund contains.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e387	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e390	According to the majority at Stortinget, Norwegian defence will spend almost 29 billion dollars next year. There is a lot of money, and we have to expect that the defence has as its primary purpose to secure us against the real threats to the security of the nation. SV has allowed itself to ask questions about whether it is really in Afghanistan and Iraq that we best ensure our security. We agree that our security depends on a number of international circumstances, and that we can have self-interest in participating in international operations with the UN mandate, but it doesn't matter where we participate. We also need to ask ourselves whether it is the military instruments that are most appropriate to prevent conflicts and relationships in other countries from having an impact on our security. The foreign military focus has been significantly strengthened by the process the Minister of Defence has set in motion against a new long-term defence plan and in the political premise basis of a military professional investigation that will be ready in a few days’ time. This is an adaptation to the process that has been taking place in NATO in recent years, where the first Out of Area concept was adopted, and now the operationalisation through the PCC obligations of the Praha meeting, the creation of the NATO Response Force and the new command structure. All of this is a relationship that, in SV's opinion, had deserved a much more thorough debate than has been the case, both in the Storting and in society for the rest. The multiplicity comments in the vote clearly show that the majority, with the exception of SV, will facilitate a more NATO-adapted defence, or rather a defence that is more structured to offer niche capacities for NATO operations, a defence for professional soldiers with more high-tech equipment than ever before, and a defence that is difficult to implement with traditional protection obligations. All of this is a resounding farewell to national defence, and it is mainly due to the unforeseeable nature of the threat that one must equip himself for all eventualities, in particular terrorism. SV has long believed that the fight against terrorism is not a military matter, but a matter that needs to be resolved in other ways, firstly by contributing to terrorism’s failure to grow by the fact that people on the globe have hopeless living conditions. The enormous differences must be combated, not promoted. Terrorism is also a major intelligence problem. It's about finding the terrorists and thus averting terrorist acts. This makes it visible that there are instruments other than military use of power that are most active in the fight against terrorism, for example: the political, economic, diplomatic and all other non-military instruments. Not only are the military instruments not very accurate, but we are now looking particularly closely at the war in Iraq that we have had a rise in terrorism. As a small country, Norway is dependent on well-functioning international cooperation and clearly defined international rules. Norway has an interest in strengthening international law and countering, for example: the prohibition of use of power by international law is being undermined. Participation in peace processes, extensive voluntary contributions to the UN system and significant Norwegian aid efforts have established Norway as a ‘humanitarian act’, with meaning beyond what our size in the population would suggest. The role of an important humanitarian actor, in the SV’s view, will primarily contribute to providing greater security, although participation in peace processes may also make Norway vulnerable to attacks by forces that do not have an interest in peace. In the opinion of the SV, our security can best be ensured through a comprehensive approach to foreign, defence and security policy. A strong humanitarian and peace policy commitment should play a key role in Norwegian foreign policy. This presupposes that Norway acts independently in relation to major interests, with consistent defence of human rights and democracy. We have to manage our resources in a way that gives confidence. Norway must not make investments that support dictatorships or unethical forms of trade and production, which we do not currently have sufficient certainty that we do not. Today, Norway has taken on a role of loyalty to allies, a nation that assumes international responsibilities more than reflecting on the best efforts that give us greater security. The participation in Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan and Iraq is now examples of this. In the opinion of the SV, defence needs to concentrate much more on tasks other than offensive international operations than at present, and this forms the basis for the alternative arrangements made by SV on the defence budget. First, however, the Minister of Defence states in the preamble to the military professional investigation that the risk profile is not clear, and points in particular to the spread of technologists, increased mobility, non-governmental actors, etc. as the basis for this, and that the use of asymmetrical instruments by an enemy makes it even more unpredictable. And I ask the question again: are these the real threats, and are the military instruments that are the most effective to ensure our security? Two years after the terrorist attacks on the United States and the subsequent emphasis on the military fight against terrorism, the threat of terrorism against Western countries and interests is significant, not least the suicide attacks in Istanbul in November 2003 shows. I don't think so, like what I said earlier in the post, but I think the defense must be organized as a result of an assessment of what we want to defend, not according to what we are at any time afraid of being able to happen. SV will place great emphasis on coastal safety. Norway is responsible for the sovereignty of areas seven times our country's size. Coast Guard preparedness and coastal security need to be strengthened, both as a consequence of the dramatic increase in Russian oil cargo and other cargo along the Norwegian coast and the need for a sound response to defence's tasks in resource management. In the past, it has been decided to extend the territorial sea of Norway from 4 to 12 nautical miles in order to enhance safety at sea. To achieve this objective, sufficient resources must be made available to monitor an enlarged territory and enforce Norwegian sovereignty. Close military-civil cooperation and maritime presence are necessary in the management of our territorial sea. There must also be clear responsibilities and adequate preparedness in relation to the serious situations that may arise from the very extensive transport of oil along our coast. A new imbalance is emerging in the defence economy by the fact that there is still a lack of consistency between the Great Britain's defence structural decision and the adopted budgetary framework. I would like to refer to the decision on the construction of new MTB vessels in the Skjold class, which will be a significant financial burden. Defence planning must be based on clearly defined and real needs. No decisive emphasis must be placed on other aspects of investment decisions, which I believe was the case when the decision on new MTB vessels was taken half a year before the adoption of a new long-term plan. The SV will therefore have a more comprehensive approach to defence and security, and considers that Norway needs to pay greater attention to the fact that conflict prevention, the promotion of human rights, fair distribution, humanitarian aid and the strengthening of international law also help to secure peace and strengthen our security. In our alternative state budget, we proposed a significant transfer of funds from the defence budget to the foreign budget to strengthen conflict prevention and peace efforts. SV has gone in to cut the defence budget significantly in line with our long-term framework of NOK 100 billion. We mainly take budget cuts on the investment side, especially on frigates and missile torpedo boats, as we have done for a long time, but also through cuts on some operating chapters, especially on the Army. Today’s security policy situation requires a much lower level of national defence, and the SV is very critical of the strong emphasis on the preparation of NATO forces, not least through the forces of defence and their further development. SV kutter, as is also known on budget funds for the Eastern Region of the region and the interconnection of Mauken-Blötind, as well as on development projects related to new fighter aircraft. In SV, there is room for significant savings in the Norwegian defence expenditure. We note that there is no majority in favour of the SV's proposal for a framework for this budget area. SV will therefore vote against the current voting setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e429	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e432	The first part of the post of the representative Bjørklund we get back to December 17th, when we're going to discuss that kind of question. I want to address what we are discussing today, namely the budget. SV often talks about a warmer society, about the development of all parts of the country, and about all of us getting it so well here in the country. In the SV's alternative defence budget, the party proposes to cut the defence budget by SEK 4.4 billion. It's not just that SV is against expansion and conversion of the dock in Bergen and threatens the jobs it's about there, but why will SV take the job from those who build MTBs in West Agder? And what are they going to live on, the 500 employees only in the Army who would be persuasive with the SV's alternative defence budget? How should the settlement pattern in North Norway be maintained with SV's defence budget proposals? What should they live on, those who work in jobs that are dependent on repurchase agreements, such as: agreements relating to the purchase of new frigates?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e439	I have registered that the Workers' Party and the LO have, on several occasions recently, been working hard against our defence policy for reasons of the number of jobs that would have been lost if our policy had been implemented. This certainly shows what is the real cause of the Labour Party and the LO in defence policy, namely the concern for jobs. For SV, it is most natural that we focus in defence policy on which defence policy priorities are important in order to ensure our security. It is clear that it is possible to cut down on the Army budget, as we have proposed, and strengthen the foreign budget. This will obviously mean that someone loses their job, for example. in defence intervention forces, which SV has been consistent against all the time. But I would like to make it clear that the most important thing is not the employment effect, but the defence effect, which has also been important for the Workers' Party in the transition. That's why, in the past, you've agreed to have a reduction of 5,000 men, because we're going to have the best defense. District policy instruments are important, but for us, it is generally up to us to do the most important tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e448	First, I would like to commend SV for their comments and positions – not because the Progress Party necessarily agrees with so many of them, but it is important to see a case from at least two sides. As far as the SV budget is concerned, it is quite dramatic – minus NOK 4.4 billion. There will be a considerable reduction in national defence, and, as it says, ‘supporting the reduction of invasion defence in North Norway’, etc. Will not a reduction of SEK 4.4 billion in such short-term rage the defense?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e455	For SV, it's not the employment effect of the Defense that's the most important thing, but what we use the resources to secure our security. In SV we have e.g. low belief that military instruments can combat terrorism. We have greater faith in other instruments. That's why we're making these kinds of arrangements, and we're going to keep doing that until we have a defense that's adapted to the needs we have, for example. in terms of managing and protecting our vast marine resources, and not adapting offensive war operations with weak or poor UN mandates on the other side of the earth, against which we mainly target our great investments. It is also worth noting that we are essentially reducing investment budgets, rather than operating budgets, except in some areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e460	When SV reduces the allocation to the Army by 500 million. kr, it has consequences for 1 100 employees. It must also have defence implications, must it not? And so: If the Norwegian defence is to safeguard Norwegian citizens and Norwegian interests, does that not also mean that we must have active international cooperation, participate in international operations and contribute to conflict resolution? And in addition, does the representative of Bjørklund think that terrorist attacks in the world started on 11 September 2001? That's actually what the representative said in his post. Is it not precisely our accident after quite a powerful and major terrorist attack, which the attack on the United States Embassy in Nairobi, which led to 11 September, and which enabled such a network as that of Al-Qaeda to be established today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e467	Of course, SV believes that we should participate internationally and not be devoid of international participation. However, in relation to international military operations, we believe that there must be good, clear UN mandates for participation. Otherwise, we believe that we need to give greater priority to using our resources on other types of instruments, which reduce the possibility of terrorism occurring. What SV believes is the great emergency unit is that we have just been unable to deal with the major fundamental conflicts that form a basis for terrorism. With regard to the proposal to reduce the allocation to the Army, we realise that it will affect jobs — but jobs in the Defence Forces, which are mainly targeted at participation in international operations, are not a type of jobs that we want to protect particularly much about.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e474	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e477	The Christian People's Party participates in the majority comments and supports the Committee's decision-making. As the rapporteur-general for the area of social security and preparedness, I will take this as a starting point for my statement on the 2004 defence budget. The size is treated for approx. a year ago the Communication on social security, the Road to a less vulnerable society. Int. S. No 9 for 2002-2003 on social security shares the majority of the Committee's views on: ‘a secure and robust society that averts threats and overcomes crises. Society shall be ensured against challenges to key societal values such as life, public health and well-being, the living environment, the democratic system and its legal institutions, national governance and sovereignty, its territorial integrity, material and economic security and cultural values.’;» Cross-border terrorism has created a new security policy agenda. The concept of social security has become more important, and there is also a greater awareness of measures to limit the vulnerability of society, both in order to prevent its integration and to limit the damage caused by adverse events. The challenges and potential threats are diffuse and are characterised by moving transitions between national and international and between peace, crisis, armed conflict and war. We can no longer talk about either peace or war. It must be reflected both in civil protection and in military defence. It is no longer a clear enemy, and the role of defence related to conventional defence is not as prominent as before, but society must have the capacity to prevent, combat and limit the adverse effects of various types of estimates and attacks. In other words, the defence must also have a preventive and protective role and be able to provide various types of assistance to civil authorities. I will also quote one of the objectives of the work: ‘Society’s total resources shall be used through coordinated use and priorities in social security activities.’;» We find many examples of good cooperation in the budget proposals, both from the Ministry of Defence and from the Ministry of Justice. In order to take some important in the form of keywords: monitoring of our large sea areas, coastal preparedness, rescue operations and the national safety authority. Nevertheless, the Committee has pointed out that it should be improved, because it is the individual department responsible for the social security and preparedness work in its sector, and they should also follow-up. S. No 9 on social security — The road to a less vulnerable society. There is a need for a greater awareness in the departments of referring to the work on social security in the issues before the Storting. It will in the long term facilitate efforts to ensure social security and preparedness to emerge as a whole. It is the Defence Committee that is responsible for this chapter in budgetary terms, but in individual cases dealt with in other committees, there is no routine of notifying the Defence Committee that we might have made some observations from our point of view. That must then happen in the individual party groups, and we are trying to participate in the debates here in this Chamber. In addition, I believe that all departments should have a chapter on social security in the budget proposal to make the work visible. It is a concept of total defence, or total preparedness, in which civil protection and military defence may appear as a whole. There will be a new communication on social security for spring, as the Stortinget has adopted earlier. This will enable the Stortinge to deal for the first time with a long-term plan for both military defence and civil protection at the same time. It provides a better opportunity to view civil and military preparedness together and see conflicting tasks, interrelated areas, and challenges where there are clear distinctions. Therefore, the Committee is also pleased that initiatives have been taken towards the Institute for Defence Studies to establish a strategic research programme on overall defence and social security, where conceptual use and conceptual content will be central. It is important that common threat and common content of concepts form the basis for work on preparedness at all levels of government. Good communication between all the actors involved in the work on social security is crucial when crises arise and cooperation is needed. It is equally important to have exercises together, to have role-playing games and to become familiar with each other's competences, responsibilities and practices. When you go through different scenarios together and discuss solutions, you have to think through difficult events and how you would react yourself. It's about making each other a little stronger and better and a little bit more prepared. We have a lot to learn from both firemen and soldiers about the necessary balance in going into dangerous situations and at the same time thinking about their own safety. It turns out that municipalities too poorly integrate risk and vulnerability analyses as a natural part of the other governance and decision-making tools. It is important that the municipality define an acceptable level of risk and set targets and propose measures for the community’s work on social security and preparedness. The fire protection system must be integrated with the other emergency and safety activities of the municipality. In this context, the Christian People's Party will point to the importance of competence and quality and that inter-municipal solutions should be assessed both in the field of planning and for efficient use of resources. It is important that the county councillors engage actively in dialogue with the municipalities at the start of municipal planning processes and that clear information is provided on the requirement related to risk and vulnerability analyses. Consideration must be sought and checked and, where appropriate, objections must be raised by the county. In order to achieve this, it is possible to increase the standardisation of emergency surveillance by county officials. It was a thought-provoking to read the headline in Hamar Arbeiderblad on 11 November, where it said, ‘Accidents gave emergency plans.’ It is the Asta accident that has led to Årvet Municipality having both implemented crisis communication plans and undergoing exercises. It's clear that such events do something with one. But not everyone must experience such tragedies in order to get better in terms of preparedness. It is possible that the Minister of Justice, as coordinator of social security, thinks that I am too impatient. The process has just started, things have to be done in order, and things take time. But the Christian People's Party believes social security is so important, and we need to get some debates going in order to be safe on the total emergency idea. Each of us actually has a responsibility. I would therefore like to recall the three principles on which work on social security is to be based. It's responsibility, proximity and equality. So we're all somehow involved in this work. Individual citizens are also responsible for their own security. Fire prevention is part of social security. In the Municipal Report of yesterday, December 3, we could read: «Delete fire protection in 8 out of 10 nursing homes» Social Security and Preparedness Directorate — DSB — Mapped the fire safety of 3 200 buildings used for care purposes. Fire safety is identified as unsatisfactory in a total of 1800 of the buildings surveyed, with more than 16 000 inhabitants. It is established that the fire safety of hospitals and nursing homes has improved in recent years, as a result of much new construction and upgrading of old building masses. But, according to DSB, the owners of nursing homes have not entirely taken the consequences of the functioning of the residents. The Ministry of Justice has sent the report to all municipalities. At the same time, the Ministry calls on the municipalities, in consultation with the local fire services, to consider measures to improve the safety of nursing homes. Next year, the DSB will look at the fire safety of people who are given municipal care in their own homes. It is possible that the municipality has no formal responsibility for the fire safety here. The question is whether it has any moral responsibility. It will be looked at more closely, and if home workers and home nurses should also pay attention to fire safety when they are on home visits. As I have also worked at home health care for some years, I would like to ask that something be done in this area, preferably with a training package for those working with home-based care. I was often afraid that things would go wrong, especially for demented users who still lived alone, and especially for winter time with maintenance. Action on residential fires in 2003 is now under way, 9–11. December, where more than 25 000 dwellings throughout the country are to be visited by municipal fire services and local electricity regulators, which are to control fire safety and provide information. December is a month of many fires — for various reasons, among others. high use of candles. We must also remember that intoxication and smoke can have fatal consequences. Finally, the Christian People's Party will stress the importance of implementing the conversion of Defence with a main focus on correcting the imbalance between operations and investments, and the imbalance between tasks and resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e537	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e540	I want to put the search light on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, SV and the Center Party. It's about the war invalid home of Bæria. The proposal states: ‘The Government is asking the Government to contribute to ensuring the operation of Bæria if it is difficult to obtain full user funding from 2005.’; Those who are there and get care and rest are people who have been willing to sacrifice everything, even their lives. This kind of service will also be needed in the future. It amazes me very much that the government parties, among other things. with local representatives who know the place well, cannot be willing to support this proposal. So I want to hear the reason for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e553	I was a little happy when I read in the Glamdalen that Bæria was very satisfied with what was stated in the budget proposal. They believe that they should be able to obtain funds for the operation. I've been very concerned about Bæria, and I really wanted Bæria to become a centre of expertise for everyone on international missions, as former UN soldiers and perhaps with a few moments of asylum seekers and immigrants. It's those who have been on international missions and who have war experience, who can also help that group. But I just had to realize that there was another way that Bærea wanted to run her business, where the interpersonal, being able to talk together, was the most important, and not having health skills to strengthen and help those who had problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e560	Can a battle against terrorism by military means? Seems the investments associated with bombs osb.? These are issues that have been discussed for a long time, not least since 11 September 2001. The United States has gone to two wars since then, first in Afghanistan and then in Iraq. But the question is equally unanswered. What we are witnessing is that the world's greatest military power, with the world's most advanced weaponry and intelligence system, is fighting blindly against terrorism. The question of whether one can fight terrorism with military instruments is also relevant in Norway, where the defence is now increasingly moving towards fighting terrorism with military instruments, and preferably with NATO as a mission giver. Does the representative Wisløff Nilsen think that the distribution of resources between military means of countering terrorism in the defence budget and the means of resolving conflicts and assisting the foreign budget are balanced? Or could she have thought that more of the tools went over the external budget, as we in the SV think, not least in order to be able to use the expanded security scope more effectively?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e569	When I made my contribution to the idea of social security, it was precisely because we also in international missions have to think in a slightly different way, put it with the cold war and the thinking that was around it, a little behind us. We have to look at the whole community and what it needs. This also applies in relation to the allocation of the instruments. We actually need the military to do a job outside, with the terrorist threats and the problems that are, among other things. in Afghanistan and Iraq. I don't think the humanitarian organizations had come that far. We can see that, among other things. in Iraq, where the organisations have withdrawn. It's the military who do a good job. Then one must not depend on them being military, but on social security and overall preparedness as the most important thing. We're going to go together both civilly and militarily to do a good job for the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e576	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e579	Today's debate on the defence budget comes just before the head of defence will present his recommendations related to the military professional investigation. It should in itself raise some fundamental questions as to what defence it is that we see in front of us. Or in another way: what is the reason for the Norwegian defence – if we are going to go to the depths? In other words, there could have been a need for a clear and transparent explanation of what the defence objectives actually mean when they are translated into concrete action and concrete tasks, including: in the budget. Today, several objectives are maintained at once, which can in reality be both contradictory and exacerbating when they are to be put into practice. The Defence Budget shows, in the opinion of the Centre Party, inter alia: a lack of balance between national and international defence tasks. The debate and its dilemma are still being avoided. If the debate on the objectives and reasons for the defence is not soon taken, if you do not meet that debate, then the logical end point in relation to the disposals we are now seeing, and the signals that have come in connection with the MFU, can be pointed out that we are left with a declared defence whose task is primarily to contribute to stability beyond the borders of the country. It's in case of a defense I hardly think the Norwegian people are willing to pay close to NOK 30 billion. in the year before. More than any other activity, the defence depends on the legitimacy of what they do. The centre party believes there is reason to ask questions about legitimacy if we end up with a materially heavy defense and a structure that can hardly be used other than with our allies. In that case, I think the defense and the political forces that would have stood behind something like this have misjudged what the Norwegian society wants and demands of the Defense. Of course, it is easy to claim that the changes in Europe also call for more cooperation in defence, but at the same time the changes have the consequence that each country has more responsibility for its own existence and security than before. Stability between countries also depends on accountability. From the Norwegian side, this must be done, inter alia: means a defence capable of monitoring resources in the Norwegian territory and in the Norwegian sea domain in a credible manner. What's happening today is a verbal saying that all the considerations should be taken into account, while reality points towards prioritisation of some relationships to the pre-allocation of others. That's the background and reason why the Central Party in its alternative budget has chosen to increase the appropriations for the Army and the Home Office. It's the high-ranking parts of the defense that are going to determine our ability to assert sovereignty over their own territory. Their structure will also determine the future protection obligations. The Central Party will not accept the decommissioning of the Army and the Home Office. I can agree with the representative Hernæs that the army is today in good condition and well trained. But if you want it to continue, I think it's an unwise strategy to start by reducing the appropriations for the Army by $1 billion in next year's budget. The centre party also believes that there is reason to question how much more defence capacity one gets out of some of the large investments the defence plans to do. For the sake of the frigates, today's maritime defence should also be questioned, at the current level, will be able to run an organisation that will make as much investment as you think of in the years to come. I also agree with what the Right Representative says, that we should recognise that there may have been misinvestments in the past, investments that are being seen in the light of today and in today's defence situation differently. But let's also take that with us in relation to the future investments. Are we now absolutely sure that what we are putting up today in terms of investment in defence is the long-term, right decisions for the country in relation to the challenges the defence is facing? Finally, let me also mention a question that has not taken much time at all in the committee, namely Hysnes. But it's a matter that affects many, and to which one expects a quick solution. The signals from the Workers' Party today indicate that the Workers' Party is aware of this, but that they are baffled and bound by a budget agreement that does not give them freedom of action. We realize that that means that the Labour Party today is willing to vote against a proposal they really are in favour of. That is why we will re-submit our proposal for a transmission proposal. But we assume that Defence Building takes seriously the signals that have occurred earlier in this case, and the indirect message that lies with an overall committee and in the comments of the committee leader. If not, none of us will hesitate to address this issue in the context of the revised national budget. Then we expect the Workers' Party to set up, as they have done in the past, and as required. With that I will have to re-apply proposal No. 4 to a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e602	The representative then made the proposal to which she herself referred a transmission proposal. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e607	The centre party has never been known to be a driver of international cooperation. While all the countries of Europe have now left the Invasion Defense, or we shall say the pure, national defence, the Central Party underlines the following in its alternative budget: ‘The red thread of the Central Party’s defence policy is a strong national defence.’ My question is: doesn't the Central Party see that the old national defense, with backpacks and tents and muses, is over? Does the Central Party not see that there are new times, and that there is a new threat picture, which requires international cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e617	I may think that I contributed through my contribution to clarifying some of the issues that the representative Halvorsen is now addressing. If we are to hold the debate at the level of the representative, Mr Halvorsen, we are no longer going to clarify part of the dilemmas and part of the challenges associated with international operations, which I expect the Labour Party to see. The Labour Party also says that they want both a national, strong defence and an international defence. The Labour Party is also concerned with Norway’s maritime domain – seven times larger than our land area. The Labour Party also believes that the Army is an important piece in the territorial defence. But then we also have to be able to look at and go into part of the dilemmas that we face today in relation to a defence where we can risk evading the duty of protection, where we can risk building up the Home Office, and where the Labour Party not only opens up international operations through the UN and NATO, but where one is actually willing to go into and join Iraq, stand on in Iraq and even participate in EU-led operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e624	The centre party speaks nicely about the large sea areas. But they wouldn't contribute to the ships that more than anything else would be involved in showing the flag and securing precisely those sea areas. I would also like to stress: in relation to being sure that there is no misinvestment for the future, we agree that there is no absolute certainty about it. But we have to do the best we can. Therefore, it is absolutely wrong to talk about the government parties and the Workers' Party reducing the investment to the Army. We're shifting the investments in this planning period, because we're getting a new planning period that overlaps the old one, just to make sure we don't make investments that will turn out to be false. Does not the representative Arnstad agree that this is a good way to deal with a difficult dilemma?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e633	No, I'm sorry! I don't think that's a good way to handle it. I think of it as an explanation of what really is the reality, which is that you reduce the appropriations for the Army by $1 billion, that you don't follow up what the parties said and insured the defense to be a long-term goal, just for one to two years ago. So I can unfortunately not give the representative Hernæ's forgiveness of sins in that matter. I'm sorry! I believe that there is no doubt that the consultations relating to the budget have also given us the clear impression that the reductions, or postponements, if you like, linked to the Army – we see whether there will be postponements – will have adverse effects related to the activities of the Army. This is why the Central Party has proposed that the level of 2003 should be maintained. Otherwise, in the case of the sea domain, the Centre Party has supported new MTBs. The centre party is proposing to increase the appropriations for the Coast Guard, but the centre party, unlike the right, is not entirely bomb-proof as to whether it is right to spend 19 billion dollars for frigates.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e640	With regard to the conclusion of the reply to the reply, I can only say that it is stated in the comment from the Central Party that unfortunate projects like frigates «should be applied for». The centre party wants increased funds for the Army and the Home Office, which, of course, the Advance Party thinks is good. But we stand out on quite a number of other points, among other things. in the case of regional fields. The Eastern Region is also a project that the Central Party wants and believes should be applied for. The question then becomes the Centerpartiet: Where do you think the Norwegian girls and boys like, among other things? to carry out international missions, shall properly train them so that they can take care of themselves and their own, and do the task that Norway imposes on them in a safe, good, efficient and good manner?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e655	I don't know if the representative of Bredvold misunderstood me when it comes to the frigates. I'm not hiding it. The center party is for new MTBs, we are to increase the allocation to the Coast Guard, and we are against the frigates. We have noticed that some people believe that it must be difficult to operate the Maritime Defense with the heavy investments you will get there in the years to come. I also believe, for my part, that the enormously heavy investments in maritime defence are going to distort the balance between the different defence sectors. We're going to have to get back to that. Then to the region field. Yes, the Central Party is opposed to the development of the Eastern Region. We believe that it is one of the investments that are unnecessary and that are also environmentally irresponsible. In this area, we would like to think of a little more international cooperation, for once. There may well be a thought for them in the hall that is otherwise engaged in international cooperation, that in that context we should perhaps have cooperated more with the Swedes on common practice areas, and also used more of the areas of practice we actually have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e662	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e665	I am pleased that the government parties and the Labour Party have come together in a defence policy settlement on next year's budget. After all, the little defence agreement has almost drowned in the debate on the big deal. But for those of us who work on defence issues, and not least for the Defense itself, it's almost as important as defence policy. A political settlement is the result of two parties reaching out to each other. I would therefore like to thank the government parties for their cooperation on the 2004 defence budget. I am the case rapporteur for chapters 1720 Joint management and command equipment and 1792 Norwegian forces abroad. Let me first say a few words about joint management. As part of the June 2002 defence agreement, the Workers’ Party and the Government’s parties advocated integrated strategic management, which is established practice in most NATO countries. However, even if all this has been decided, it may seem that some people believe that this decision can be reversed. That's why I have to say a few words about this. The governance reform was necessary to ensure better coordination of defence activities, both horizontally between the different guidelines, and vertically between top strategic management and the performance of defence. The establishment of a new integrated strategic direction in the Ministry of Defence will also ensure better political control of the Defence. As the Defence Command was organized, this instance was not an adequate response to today's challenges. Under the threat of the Cold War, the situation made it clear that the distinction between political and military responsibilities was clear. Today, the defense operates under different conditions. An overall reform of defence management at the strategic level was therefore necessary. The threat picture today is different, and the need for ongoing military political contact is considerably greater than during the cold war. The class bombing and purchase of a useless radar for the Coast Guard are issues that advocate a new organisational model. After the detection of the class bombing case, better civil-military coordination and clear command conditions were some of the measures the Minister of Defence saw in his report to the Stortingen Defence Committee. The report was taken into account by the Defence Committee. Later in the autumn, the majority supported the proposed timetable, while at the same time approving a temporary move until new buildings on Akershus will be completed in 2005. And if anyone should be in doubt, the working party still supports both temporary and permanent relocation to Akershus. Cape. 1792, Norwegian forces abroad, have several areas that should be mentioned. The situation in the Balkans has shown a slow but clear improvement. The Workers' Party supports a reduction in the Norwegian contribution to KFOR in line with the positive development of the area and the continuation of today's light battalion until the summer of 2004. In connection with the KFOR mission in Kosovo, the budget has announced that the Norwegian contribution to KFOR will be reduced as a result of improvement in the situation. I can only add here that the NATO Minister of Defence meeting a few days ago, on 1 December, decided to halve NATO's contribution to KFOR. The fact that NATO defence ministers are also prepared to leave the rest of the operations to the EU is another matter. I am going to leave that debate to a large extent, but I cannot help but say that the European Union is proving to be a dynamic force on security policy issues. I therefore believe that some and everyone in a European country that is just a member of NATO, and not of the EU, should have reason to think about several times. For the sake of order, it can also be added that Professor Johan Galtung, who has been known as a contemplating no-man, now opens up to say yes to the EU, with some premise that EU defence and foreign policy is evolving in the right direction. But Galtung is probably a yes-man in practice, for he understands that Norway can only influence EU foreign policy in the direction you want if you are on the inside of the organisation. It is only as a member that you get to participate in the policy-making process. I want more of this logic in the Norwegian debate. However, I would like to stress that there is a certain ambiguity in the budgeting of international operations. That is why the Labour Party believes that tight budgeting must take place. There are scarce resources to be used, and we therefore need to consider what we can politically get out of the resource use associated with the various international operations in which we participate. Another important element of international operations is that Norway’s participation outside must be anchored in international international law. This is a historical anchor for Norway’s foreign policy, and it should – for a small country like ours – also serve as a guide for foreign involvement, even in the future. In view of the political anchoring in international law, I believe it is right that the Norwegian participation in Afghanistan is linked to the international stabilisation force in Afghanistan, the so-called ISAF force. Consequently, the Workers' Party supports the prioritisation of this contribution at the expense of «Operation Enduring Freedom». As a consequence of the strengthening of ISAF, the Workers’ Party also supports the deployment of a Telemark Battalion unit in support of the Loya Jirga process from December 2003 to January 2004. NATO took over the management of ISAF from August this year. It is therefore in the interests of Norway and our allies that the situation in Afghanistan is stabilised. A result other than success will not strengthen NATO's reputation. The Labour Party sees as a consequence of the security situation in Afghanistan that words alone are not enough. The security need to support the dawning democratic processes in Afghanistan needs the actual presence of military personnel. The Workers' Party therefore supports the 200 men's contribution of the Telemark Battalion to an ISAF watch and security company. A successful ‘Loya Jirga’ can hopefully contribute to the stabilisation of the situation until the planned elections in June next year, and the Labour Party agrees that this unit from the Telemark Battalion from February 2004 is Norway’s contribution to ISAF V. It has not been long since Norway had a seat in the UN Security Council. When Stortinget discussed membership of the Security Council, it was stressed that peacemaking in Africa should be one of three priority areas. I am pleased that the Labour Party and the majority of the Committee are still supporting this continent. The Labour Party continues to believe that support for UN missions in Africa is in line with the UN's call for rich countries to bear a greater share of the burden of UN peacekeeping operations and that Africa's challenges need to be focused. Norwegian aid and Norway’s contribution to peacekeeping operations in Africa are likely to strengthen Norway’s credibility in the UN, as well as Norwegian reputation and confidence in poor countries in general. The situation in Iraq is a subject on which many, and not least the media, are concerned. However, the Committee considers Norway’s international contribution to stabilising unsafe areas. I would therefore ask everyone who is interested, even to obtain information from the Defence Operational Headquarters, so that the engineering company's duties and mandate become clear for even more. On this basis, a majority in the Committee refers to the positive humanitarian effect of the Norwegian engineering company in southern Iraq and that the tasks performed by the company are in line with UN Resolution No. 1483, of 22 May 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e699	Let me begin by giving commendation and recognition to all the units in the defence that have loyally dealt with the four-year plan adopted in June 2001, which every day work to provide operating savings of DKK 2 billion, land savings of 2 000 000 m2, land to be sold to provide income for the same defence, and which do as best they can to achieve the size reduction target of 5,000 men. These requirements addressed by the Stortinget to the Defence are not easily met. That's why I need so much recognition at the beginning of my post. Either you go to Halkavarre, Finnmark, Inner Troms, Ramsund, Bergen, Jåttå or Rena, you find everywhere an enthusiasm despite very demanding conversion. Why is it an enthusiasm? Well, because you have faith that that's right, and because you have faith that we're getting a better defense that gives us opportunities. We must not forget that. Indeed, there is a clear justification for the transition that started in June 2001. The reason is that the world has changed, and that our needs for defence have changed. It has nothing to do with us prioritizing an out-of-office defence in front of a home defense. On the contrary, there is a changed threat situation at home in relation to new threats and a set of threats that are the background for changing our defence. A relevant defence must be responsive, in which case the reaction capability of Rena to North Norway is as important as that of Rena to an international mission. This response has to be shorter than six months. So what we're doing in Defense when we make intrusions of most of the Defense is giving a reaction ability that can be used to give a better defense at home. So, of course, it's also so that part of this reaction defense can take on a mission outside, and of a defense budget that we proposed to NOK 29.4 billion, it was set at 700 million. kr to be able to be used out – a modest proportion. Most of the Norwegian defence is always at home, ready to respond at home — not only to traditional threats of war or crisis, but also to do a very important job for civil society. The overall defence concept is precisely that we support civil society with the new resources much more than before. Home security has a very important job every time it's a flood or a hurricane or a person walks away. Its 330 squadron with its helicopters saves people whether they're on land or at sea. Our increased preparedness at sea provides increased preparedness both for our fishing vessels and for others who may need assistance. Here we need both the new shield class, we need new frigates, we need our new protective craft, KV "Svalbard," and we need the new maritime helicopters we've invested in. There is an increasing effect at home in our northern seas. That at the same time it gives us an increased ability to respond out, is great. The fact that we have started this transition before many other NATO countries makes it possible for us to fulfil our alliance obligations more than many other NATO countries when the UN or NATO has decided that we should get involved and where we have been on the decision. I must also be allowed to say that, as far as our involvement in Afghanistan and the Balkans is concerned, almost all the parties on the Stortinget have supported it. There is nothing the defense has invented on its own. I would like to end by saying that, as far as our people in Iraq are concerned, they are doing a formidable job. They're making an effort for the civilian population – an effort that no one else would have made if we hadn't been there. It was further financed in the revised national budget, and we are within both the UN mandate and the decisions taken in government and enlargement. I want to end my speech by saying that I am full of admiration for the efforts our people are making in this dangerous situation – such a dangerous situation that most NGOs have drawn out – delivering electricity, petroleum, gas, water and essential services to those living in Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e714	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e717	Let me first join in the description that Kristin Krohn Devold gives of the efforts in the Defense. Let me also add that if the Storting sends forces abroad, we must also support them in the debates that are behind. It is absolutely right that the forces that are abroad are the Stortingen who have sent out. Otherwise, there is a work in progress in the Government to replace today's rescue helicopters. The working party believes that it is both logical and correct that the defence should continue to be an operational resource of the rescue helicopter service. We also believe that it is logical that the defense should buy a helicopter that will be part of the defence and defence logistics in a cost-effective way. However, we are concerned about signals coming from the Ministry of Justice and the Government. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think that it is the NH90 that is the right helicopter to purchase, and will the Defence continue to be an operational resource, if the result is anything else?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e726	In the case of the purchase of new rescue helicopters, it is classified under the Ministry of Justice as a department because the rescue service is located there responsibly. But it is today the defence that carries it out, among other things. with 330 squadrons, which I referred to in my post. And if you want the defense to do the service in the future as well, of course, it's a clear advantage that a helicopter purchased by the Ministry of Justice and a helicopter purchased by the Ministry of Defence is the same type of helicopter. The reason is that there are currently costs of training, maintenance, etc. There are such things that cost money in addition to the purchase itself, and it is, of course, cheaper and better to deal with one type of helicopter than two. But there may be other arguments that speak for other solutions. Here it is, as I said, the Ministry of Justice that is professionally responsible, but in relation to the views of the defence and according to the needs of the defence, it is, of course, simpler with one type.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e733	I would also like to join the words of the Council of State on the defence effort. I think it's a little strange with the cut in the defense budget, when the chief of defense is concerned about the cuts on the material side. He says it goes beyond investment into armored special vehicles and armored weapons, and that it matters to the army's ability to protect itself, firepower and mobility. Just the forces we're going to send out, he tells us that he can have real arms problems. And he goes on to say that we have to push a bow wave of investment projects in front of us. I think here I notice a difference in the opinion of the Council of State and the Chief of Defence. Are these signs of disagreement between the Council of State and the Chief of Defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e742	The day Norway has a head of defense with no worries, I'm worried if we have the right head of defense. The Chief of Defense we have today, I'm with you. And we work closely together to make the transition that the Defense stands in the middle of it. There is no doubt that the projects of SEK 1.1 billion that are being shifted represent a challenge. But that's a good reason for this displacement. Half of the projects are building projects where we are looking for other types of flexible multi-use solutions, including exploitable solutions. In the case of approx. The 550 million pot shifted on the investment side is due to some delays in the supplier, and this is because we have changes in the Army that will have implications on volume. But we have an overview of that already in the spring, and then my goal is that these projects should go as planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e749	I was in the line to Marit Nybakk about how the Stortinget has been informed about the Government's plans to extend the Norwegian Iraq contribution beyond January 2004. As I said, SV believes that it should have been explained in a completely different and more precise way in the budget that there was an allocation for the continuation of Iraq's contribution in relation to the budget for international forces. So it's not going to point to a question from the Central Party in the Financial Committee. Does the Council of State think it's consulting the Storting? There is nothing about this continuation in the budget. Interestingly, the financing of Iraq is now taking place above the defence budget and not above the aid budget. But this also puts the Government's argument for the current year's funding in a slightly strange light. We have seen that the Government saw it as natural that the aid budget was granted emergency aid this year, because this was a purely humanitarian mission. We have doubted this. We have also criticised the use of emergency aid. Is there a concession on the part of the Government in this? It is now highly uncertain whether Norway can contribute, for example: in Sudan, which I suppose we will come back to and discuss after the Foreign Minister's statement. [[The President clubs.]] But I'd like to ask the Minister of Defence how much of the funding over the hood. 1792 will go to Iraq in 2004? [[The President Clubs Again]] And how does the Minister of Defence view the opportunities to increase Norway's contribution to peace missions in Africa in this allocation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e759	The president reminds me of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e762	When the defence budget was presented at the beginning of October, the Government had not finally concluded in relation to the distribution within the framework of intops. The government did that quite quickly afterwards. Therefore, in response to questions raised by the Minister of Finance, in a letter dated 30 October, the Committee on Finance stated how an extension was envisaged in Afghanistan and Iraq. Here's what it says: ‘In Afghanistan, the Government aims to contribute an infantry icampani in the first half of 2004 within the framework of the ISAF International Stabilisation Force’. And it goes on to say: ‘Norway is continuing military engineering support in southern Iraq, initially until the summer of 2004.’» On 12 November, in addition to that, we had a hearing in the Defence Committee on precisely the subject. 1792, with full access to ask all the questions you had, and I explained the intended use. That this is within the defence budget, when it is an ordinary, planned international operation, is quite natural. When the Stortinge in June decided on Iraq for the first time, it was an additional financing, where the Stortinge actually adopted the budgeting that was made. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e779	The President recalls that speaking time is limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e782	The Minister of Defence's contribution was a committed defence, literally, so that all the objectives could be pursued in terms of concrete action, and that in what we now stand before, obviously there are not very many dilemmas, nor room for doubt. So it's going to happen that there are some of us who have some doubts about the possibility of combining different types of defence missions, which one now adds up to. But based on what the Council of State says about everything going on here, I want to ask a question about Homeland Protection. So the Council of State says that Home Affairs is doing an important job for our readiness and for their presence. Does that mean that the Council of State now says that all the objectives are to go together, and also what she says about the important position of Homeland Protection, that she can now demand that we get a change of Homeland Protection, which involves a closure of 1/3 of the districts, a reduction of the crew from 83,000 to 50,000 and a shorter initial service for our guardians?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e789	With regard to the Heimevertet, the representative Marit Arnstad knows that the Inspector General of the Heimevertet has presented his proposal on how he believes the Heimevertet will be better able to solve its mission in the future. And of course, we're going to take a look at that in this room, in the four-year proposition that we're going to deal with this spring. But in general, I would like to say that I support the Director-General of Home Affairs' idea of greater mobility, of being able to be used over greater distances – i.e. reducing the number of districts – and greater differentiation, which increases the ability to handle a wider range of tasks more quickly. But the duty of protection, it is firm. It's not going to be like Marit Arnstad in her post, she said she was afraid, that we're getting a corporate defense, first and foremost out. We're getting a defense based on duty, but with trained entries, because we need experts. We need a defence that is primarily at home, but as an ability to participate in our solidarity commitments outside. The centre party supported last year all the international operations we were involved in, and this year they all support, except in Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e796	The Council of State said in its statement that NATO was very pleased with Norway's conversion, and that we were early out with the conversion. I'm glad. But I have recorded that there is a debate – with the Council of State's colleague's chronicle in the evening post, my colleague Halvorsen's speeches here and the Minister of Foreign Affairs' meeting in Naples – on the EU's defence policy. I would like to hear what the Council of State thinks about the dawning debate, and what importance it will have in relation to the praise we get from NATO about the efforts we have made to change and meet the demands. We can't be supposed to do this in NATO, and then we're going to do the same in the European Union. Then there's something that's not right.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e803	It is true that NATO is very pleased with Norway. But I think I can add that there are probably quite a number of NATO members who would have liked us to have been a member of the EU. The reason for that is pretty obvious. With the processes taking place in the EU, where there is greater ambition to achieve greater defence and reaction capabilities, it is a clear advantage that this is not done in duplicate structures between NATO and the EU, but that the EU is in many ways the European bone of NATO. It would be a clear advantage if it was the same organization, so to speak, and that the crowd was so to speak the same. I fully support what one of my predecessors, the Council of State, Færvoll of the Christian People's Party, said: From the point of view of a Minister of Defence, there are only arguments for Norwegian EU membership. I agree to that, because this would give us a real ability to avoid, and to influence that we avoid, what Leif Lund is afraid of, namely, that we get duplicated structures, waste money on double capacities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e810	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e813	In Defence Forum No. 18 this year you could read an article where the question was, ‘In case of war, do you think the Norwegian Defense is good, medium or poorly rusted?’ The poll was made by the MMI. The answer you received would be to believe that it would upset any defender. The measurement showed that the entire 51 pst. black poorly rusted, 40 pst. black middle rusted, 7 pst. black people don't know and only – I only underline – 2 pst. black well rusted. This was the answer that was received from the defence personnel. Since Norway became a member of NATO, many are proud that this would save Norway in the future. Let's hope so! But the economic realities in other countries must make us wake up. When the U.S. Navy considers shutting down the US Marines’ pre-deposit facility in Trøndelag, some of the security is lost. They are too precious and perhaps unnecessary when the threat from the Soviet Union is gone, they think. For Norway, according to the view of the Progress Party, it is of the utmost importance to maintain the strong and good ties we have, among other things. to the United States. Many of us look at the Norwegian-American ties as the strongest security guarantee we have had, and will receive, in the future. Let's take care of these! Now, when we get a budgetary settlement between the Labour Party and the Government that further weakens the Norwegian defence, what do we have left? It must be a great cross of thought for many that the party that was the most defence-friendly party of the postwar period, that is, the Right, departs from its previous positions. We talked about predictability and long-termity – everything to the best of Defence and Norway. Investment in equipment, infrastructure and buildings as well as staff would be so good. But what happens? The defence is given less means and predictability disappears. Who said about the Workers' Party that they ‘received what was left of Norwegian defence’? Camel closure in the right has unfortunately become a lot of it. It may seem that only the Progress Party is fully respecting the interests of the Defence. It goes without saying that e.g. minus 175 million. SEK to Defence Building does not mean being able to do what was planned, and the project has to wait – with the results it gets. With the budget of the Progress Party, we would have a higher total per. years in just the four-year period we're in. We would have had more defence and thus a safer and more effective defence. Anxiety within the sequences doesn't make the result the best, unfortunately. On some others it may almost seem that the more distant we are from the Second World War and Norway's role there, the less important is the protection of our own country. The Progress Party believes that we need to be careful that international operations do not deprive us of the ability to practice, develop and thus secure our own territory, both to water, land and air. Therefore, we need to focus more on Norway and our neighbourhood. That is why we need to strengthen, inter alia: Home security with schooling, exercises and, in particular, modern equipment. In this way, personnel will be motivated and able to provide the effort we could need in a given situation. Of course, that's what the civil and military elsewhere in the defense will think. Therefore, the so-called defence agreement must mean that the 2005 budget will have to take back the funds that the defence has not previously been allocated. We hope it happens, but personally I have little faith in just this. A credible defence both in Norway and when on foreign missions must have modern equipment and proper training, as seen in the security policy situation of today's society and the world. We have major challenges, and the uncertainty and problems are on the line. The spring of 2004 will for the military and us politicians city on many challenges. For the Progress Party, it is natural to increase the transfers to the pointed part of the Defense, a defense that will then be done the job they are going to do. With today's draft budgets, only the Progress Party can do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e834	People I'm talking to, ask themselves, do we have proper defenses in the north? We all know that we are in Kosovo, we are in Iraq, and we are in Afghanistan, but many people ask, are we not lacking security along the coast? Russarane bets like never before in the northwest. The oil terminal on the Kola Peninsula will lead to an oil transport along our coast that is as large as the total Norwegian oil production per year. the date of issue. The Russian activity may be good for the Norwegian shipping and merchant fleet, if we are present, and for cooperation with the Russians. But there are a lot of challenges. When the Russians don't think about demanding double hulls on boats to transport oil from Murmansk along the Norwegian coast and into the world, we have a problem. There is a clear signal from Russia that freight should be placed on the international freight market, with the current environmental and security constraints. Norway’s Shipowners’ Association has said that there is a problem with low-cost transport in relation to the quality of the ship, the technical equipment and the level of training among the crew. Can we risk that these low-cost principles will be governing the future transport of oil along the Norwegian coast? The answer is clearly no. Can we, for example, as the Council of State is well aware, risk simply eradicating the cod in Borgundfjord because we have a major oil accident along the coast? Are we safe enough? Are we betting enough money on this security work? The Bering Strait can be opened up for transport to Asia, and we have a turnaround in maritime transport to even more vulnerable areas. It should be possible to have international standards kneeling about double hulls on boats to go into postponed areas. Norway can make the major challenges we face to the east positive for employment and the environment, and there the defence should have a central role in exercising sovereignty and environmental control. Norway needs a more holistic defence and security policy, which also includes the North. We in SV have supported the dismantling of the invasion defence in the north, but it is clear that we still have to deal with the north so that we take care of our sovereignty in this part of the country in a clear way. What we're very concerned about is what kind of environmental protection we have in the north. We are also concerned about the importance of cooperation with Russia in a number of issues. During the Cold War, SV's role was often to ask Norway to participate in a policy by the Norwegian side that could lead to the detachment and dismantling of blocks. Today, we clearly see new challenges in relation to Russia. There is a potential for too much social unrest, there are significant environmental threats related to nuclear safety and oil cargo, and not least the significant health threats associated with the spread of AIDS and tuberculosis in Russia. SV believes that Norway has both a strong self-interest in and a moral obligation to provide substantial support for Russia's management of these problems. We must both demand that the Russians take this seriously, and we must offer all the assistance we can. We do not interpret it as any clear will to do so when the aid to this region actually has a doctor under the knife in several budgets. There is no conscious will on the part of the Government – from any department – to actively allow money for this important work. On the SV side, we can think of several measures that should be put into practice. The responsibility for monitoring, preparedness and prevention of environmental accidents and serious pollution must not be unclear. Fuzzy responsibilities may cost a great deal if a major crisis arises. Major resources need to be deployed to prevent such crises. There is no doubt that we must escalate the effort for long-term nuclear remediation. We need to strengthen our oil protection system. When we don't even have the proper tug capacity, we're not running. A seagoing tugboat must be stationed in Finnmark, and the danger of acute and dramatic oil pollution resulting from the breakdown of a Russian oil tank is great. We must dare to strengthen cooperation with Russia. We must have an agreement with Russia that oil tankers used for transport in the Barents Sea must also comply with EU and other international requirements for oil tankers with regard to double hulls, good navigation systems and that ships are classified according to the strictest requirements. And last, but not least: I believe that the will to defend the people will be held up, we are dependent on having a defense that meets the expectations of the people that Norwegian territory will be defended against the new environmental challenges in the north. And we're going to have security along the coast, and we're going to have to use the resources we have here at home to make it work properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e860	Everyone sees that the ongoing conversion process in the Defense also affects the size and organisation of the Army. From being a large mobilization army of 200,000 men, the Army is reduced in size to down to a tenth of this. At the same time, the Army has the power to make the predominantly part of Norway's contribution to international operations, and it is interesting to note the reaction capacity of the Army departments to enter into ever-new missions in the Balkans, in Afghanistan and in Iraq in recent years. I think this is a reminder to us politicians that military capabilities are not just about the highest technology, but in many cases still about being able to deploy a certain volume of soldiers into an area of intervention. The challenges we face today in Afghanistan and Iraq in creating stability, securing humanitarian work and repatriation states require the presence of officers and soldiers who both master the military profession and can communicate with and find their place in a demanding civil operating environment. I have to say I'm proud of the way the Army departments carry out these missions. It is important that we politicians understand that such a capacity does not come of itself. The Norwegian teams that are currently performing particularly demanding vigilance missions in Kabul and Kosovo have been trained through a qualitatively good initial military service and have been recruited for voluntary contracts of shorter or longer duration. There is, therefore, a clear link between the broad and demanding education of the first-time service that operates, among other things. by a 6th Division in Troms, and our ability to make professional contributions within a multinational framework internationally. It is also in the same educational environments that we give our officers the understanding of operational cooperation that is essential if they are to serve and trust among our allies. Against this background, it is gratifying to see that the Army seems to have left behind the North-South conflict that was so strong a few years ago. The established balance between army production environments in the north and in the south now seems very appropriate. The conflict seems to be created by a synergy that just enables the Army to deliver the kind of forces we ally demand. Now, in the time to come, we must ensure that the soldiers who are to carry out these very demanding operations, including: in Afghanistan and Iraq, provide the best material and training possible for them. I am particularly concerned that we take security and strength protection seriously. This requires modern armoured vehicles, effective weapons and management systems that can be easily integrated against our allies. It is important to ensure the necessary resources for good and realistic training and departmental building. Here are the shooting and practice fields in a special position. I am very concerned that the army's existing training fields are being upgraded to modern standards, and that as soon as possible we will find a solution to the announced merger of the shooting areas of Mauken and Bluetooth in Troms. If this does not happen, I fear that the Army will no longer be able to give our soldiers the education they deserve before they are sent out to international action. In sum, it is important that we now secure the Army's framework conditions that are necessary to ensure that, in the future too, relevant strength contributions are made quickly with our allies in the defence of our own country and in order to ensure international peace and stability.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e882	I am the case rapporteur for Chapter 1732 on Maritime Defence, and it is natural to start with it. Maritime defence implements comprehensive structural and efficiency measures. In this work I find it natural that the operational activity is maintained, and that the staff and support functions are reduced. An overall overview of the overall ship structure of the marine defence is expected in the forthcoming long-term proposal, and the position of the mariner is likely to be further elucidated in due course. Maritime defense isn't just the Navy. I support the majority's view that the special departments, including the Marine Chief's Command, should increase their activity. The special forces of defence are in line with benevolent political ambitions. Maritime defence is otherwise in the position that the new maritime defence structure will further develop maritime defence into a more rational and efficient operation. The aim is a modern maritime defence with a greater operational capability. This means a maritime defence that can solve a wider range of tasks, often together with allied forces, faster and more effectively than today. Military traditions can be seen on land in the form of fortresses and other military-historical buildings. An investigation into the management of the attachment which is no longer in service is awaited by the Ministry of Labour and Administration. In addition to the value of these buildings on land, I would like to stress that the Marine also has traditions, traditions that come in the Marines in the form of warships that are no longer in service. I would point to the responsibility of the defense to take care of the sailing museum vessel of the war fleet. These vessels are cultural and defence monuments of great importance to maritime Norway. It is important that the Defence helps to keep the vessels in a sailing condition. I expect the Council of State to follow up on this. It is not just the historic vessels that have to be maintained. The new frigates ordered will also need maintenance. In fact, some people stick their heads in the sand and say they have not ordered a single frigate. The same ones say they won't deal with the new frigates. Their conclusion, then, is that frigate purchases in the Fridtjof Nansen class must be lifted. To that it is to say, you can't get out of reality by believing that the frigates should never have been bought. In fact, the marine defense is waiting for the first vessel. Expensive purchases must be done carefully. In order for these frigates to be properly maintained, it is necessary to adapt the dry dock of Haakons protection. The dock must therefore be extended in length, width, height and depth so that it can accept the new vessels. I am therefore pleased that in the 2004 budget there is room for funding for design and that start-ups are planned during 2004. It is good that the progress with the dock is maintained, and that the implemented design is followed up. I also believe that time frames should not be broken, as the completion of the dock is an important part of the future of maritime defence. The workplaces associated with the Haakonsvernung dock are thus secured by the majority of the Storting. I am very surprised that SV, the Progress Party and the Center Party are opposed to the construction of the dock, when the first frigate is about to be delivered. For me, it is simply difficult to understand that jobs are at risk at a very high level of unemployment. There is a lot of talk about North Norway when oil transport from the Kola Peninsula to Europe is being discussed. The coast is long, but I can also tell you that it's coast south of town, and that accidents can also happen there. That's why in this post I will also strike a blow for the whole coast. The cold war is right above, but Norway’s interests in the northern regions have not changed. That is why we must also look to the north. To a far greater extent than during the cold war, we are left to ourselves to care for our interests in the north, while leaving a far greater share of the bill for the costs that this supervision entails. Russia is still a neighbour it is important to have a good relationship with. Norway and Russia have neighbouring interests in an area of major resource and strategic importance. – I should have said a little more, but I now see that the time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e910	Then the President will refer to a possible 3 minute post as a replacement for the rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e913	Today's debate is marked by the fact that we have a sector that has really undergone a significant change, and the term 'transition' goes back to most of what has been written in the Committee's position. The concept of security policy, which, up to a few years ago, was considered to belong to a nation's own internal affairs, has now been given a totally dominant position in the defence policy of this nation and in the position of the committee as such. This is quite natural because of the processes you've been through. In all, from the fall of the Berlin Wall to the 11th September debate, etc. we have seen that the concept of security policy has been given this dominant place. On the other hand, I'm a little worried that in all the transition we've been through, we've lost a little bit of perspective along the way. The national debate on Norway as a geographical power in Western Europe should perhaps be given a greater place. Norway has a sovereignty exercise of about 30 pst. of the total land and sea area of Western Europe. It is true that it is a bit of a process for the Defence and Defence Department to be able to participate in the significant conversion work from maintaining the concepts of stability, presence and sovereignty in the domestic arena to have a full focus in the area of security policy internationally. Then I am afraid that some of the areas that we have prioritised in the past, and which the Storting has more or less unanimously had as a clear objective that we should continue to focus on, where we should primarily maintain stability, sovereignty and control, have come a little behind me, in order to express myself parliamentaryally. In this debate, it will be a bit of a challenge for the Defence too, as for the national police force, which can be compared to, to obtain the legitimacy and understanding of the job you are set to do on behalf of the nation, which means that it will not be easy for any political leadership or government in this country to find out that it is with the Ministry of Defence budget that you can almost afford to pay any budget. To a greater extent, it is now also focusing on the geographically gigantic areas over which we are to exercise sovereignty and control – it is in the new range of tensions, the grey zone between civil and military tasks – that I feel that the defence has been less able to innovate. We see an increasing activity in our northern regions, which is going to be one of the world's largest oil and gas regions, and the practice of crime in the Barents Sea. Today, negotiations between Norway and Russia talk about the possibility of illegal fishing of 100 000 to 200000 tonnes. If you just take the first-hand value of this, we're talking about the amount and robbery from the nation of a size that makes any bank robbery in this area look like the purest pocket theft. This means that we still need to focus on the areas in which we are going to focus, and that not all the focus for the future is just on the area of security policy. This means that Storting’s decision on the crisis management command in the north still needs to have the attention it should have. And that means that the Coast Guard still needs to be developed and strengthened at the level it should and should have in the future work. It could also increase the legitimacy of the population of the political system that, in the future, too, it will not be possible to bring money from the Ministry of Defence's budget to other tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e926	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e929	The modernisation of Norwegian defence has as its primary objective to increase our operational capability. It is therefore important to avoid investing in building stock and equipment that does not provide us with modern capacities, referred to as input forces. At the same time, attention should be paid to the need to turn operational resources from fixed costs in buildings and personnel to activities that provide real defence capabilities. Firstly, the defence has become an international enterprise. Former Chief of Defense Vigleik Eide is critical in the Evening Post today that this international niche capacity should give us ‘pull rights’ to allies if there is a need here at home’. This future income, or the drawing right, is called an illusion. I don't think we should just reject Eide's view, that our allies will primarily help us when it's in their own national interests. This is made visible when someone suggests that pre-storers in Norway have to be emptied because the US no longer sees their value. It is also a cross-section of thought that the stock that is stored is based on an outdated threat picture and thus will not provide Norway with the contribution of today’s terrorist threats. Secondly, real defense has something to do with quantity, not just quality or pointed ends. Sweden for a time returned on its defence in the direction of what they called the principle of ‘re-entry’. I am concerned that Norway today has come further than our neighbours in this area. Norway has seven times greater sovereignty over sea areas than land. The Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea are among the world's most productive sea areas. The risk of shipwrecks and breakdowns, the risk of increased petroleum activity in the north, the transport of crude oil and spent nuclear fuel must be met by offensive measures. This shall be assessed in the next long-term proposition by looking at the overall ship structure of the Maritime Defence and its operation. Here are some of the main challenges facing the defence in the future within their own national borders. Sovereignty enforcement, territorial security and support for civil operations in the northern regions will be as important for the defence in the future as the efforts made in the same area during the cold days of the war.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e942	A few brief comments on the debate so far: I note that neither this time has the Progress Party been able to exert a black paint on the level of the Norwegian defence, a black paint that I believe directly undermines the respect that the Defense should have, and the justification that our soldiers should be given from the Spokesman's Chair - they should not be given the impression that it is being weakened. In this context, I will also mention Per Ove Width's line to the Minister of Defence when it came to postponing some investment in the Army, where he referred to the fact that it meant, among other things, a deterioration. of armouring, safety and modern equipment. I want to underline – the representative Width knows that if he wants to know, among other things. through hearings and also from opinions from the pulpit in the past – that none of those we have sent out for risky missions are equipped in a different way from what the defense itself has asked for. So they're fully equipped, with all the security that we're able to offer our forces. There is nothing to suggest that we send out forces on a failing basis in relation to their need for equipment and safety. Then I'd like to say a few words to the debate with Marit Arnstad about postponements of investment. It's clear there can be a lot of military defense when you cut frigates, and when you cut regional fields. I want to stress the obvious fact that the most important thing about a defense is to prevent war and that the country is subjected to some kind of extortion. In that context, in these major maritime areas, as the representative Arnstad also spoke about, the frigates are absolutely crucial, precisely in order to show that Norway is a maritime power, and that we are prepared to take care of our areas. So to the region field, as the Minister of Defence pointed out, the Central Party has been involved in almost all foreign operations. I hope they will be, too, in the future, and technology is going so fast that I don't understand how to have a conscience to send Norwegian soldiers to that type of operation without us being willing to use the region field that everyone in the Defense is saying is absolutely necessary for us to have adequate training of our soldiers. Finally, there should be more time to talk about the need for EU membership. Of course, I fully agree that NATO cooperation is the cornerstone of Norwegian security policy, but it is certainly not important to see what is now happening in the EU as well. We adapt this to the reality that is, through our «North Sea Strategy», where we have cooperation both on the sea side, with the countries of the Baltic Sea area, on the airside, with Denmark and the Netherlands, and on the army side, with the German-Dutch Brigade, eventually also the Corps.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e953	The council had an engaged post here where she made the Storting aware of the commitment and the enthusiasm she met when she was out and met the Defense Departments. I think it's very positive that it's such an attitude. The defence has always been loyal to political decisions, perhaps too much. I have to admit that I am concerned about the prospects that the defense is actually facing. I am sadly convinced that the appropriations coming in the years to come are just going one way, and it is going down. We are unable to follow up the obligations we have both with our soldiers, who are in the field, and with our collaborators, allies. It's NATO we have to build our trust in. Europe lost its defence capabilities 60 years ago. After that time, they haven't been able to rebuild that unit. We see that in Kosovo, for example, which is mentioned, it was the United States. Europe was waiting for the United States to deploy the resources to clean up, put things in place, and then we were ready to move in and take the positions. I strongly reject the fact that the Progress Party is not in favour of our forces. Because that's what we're doing. Those who do not support and support the Norwegian defence forces are those who are unwilling to grant the necessary funds to carry out their tasks. Verbal support is not enough – it must be followed up with funds. I am concerned that we should now have invested tens of billions of dollars in expensive equipment that we do not have the opportunity to follow up. It's not useful with new planes if we don't have fuel and hours to train and practice using them even in sharp situations. It's no use if we never build so many docks away in Bergen, and that we employ a number of people if it's inside the docks these boats are to be laid – maybe Defense Building doesn't even have the economy to rent away their docks – so that the boats get laid and rusted, possibly on land. We have a challenge, and I ask the defense committee to think carefully about when to distribute the money in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e960	As Defence Building has been the subject of several of the contributions, I will be the case rapporteur for that chapter on a few topics. As far as disposal is concerned, I would like to clarify the importance of good cooperation between Change Property and the buyer. This also applies to Rissa Municipality. That is why I now hope that the cooperation will be resumed, and that they will reach an agreement. It has delayed the process that it has been working for a political decision here in the Chamber. It turns out that the results for post-use have become best where the competence and experience of Defence Building have been used. Defence construction with Shifte Eiendom has a big task of disposing of approx. 2 million m2 that the defense no longer needs. It is not to be avoided that there will be some comments after TV entries such as. shows mountain installations on seven floors, which have never been in use, nor will they be used in the Defence. We who work on defence policy see the context – that it was planned and built at a time when it was cold war and invasion was the threat. Now there's another threat picture and other needs, also in relation to building mass. Therefore, it is very positive that significant weight shifts away from costly, permanent and stationary solutions towards more reasonable, mobile and flexible modules. It will significantly reduce expenditure so that resources can be transferred to investments in and operation of the defence strength structure. The Minister of Defence began his speech by commending all those who are doing a great job in the extensive process of conversion that is taking place in the Defence. It's a tough transition and painful for many – some say it. We're probably not good enough to give credit for the efforts they're making, and I'm joining the rose that the Minister of Defense gave. For me, it is also important to recognise the peace work that the Defence stands for. As one who has been through a process from pacifist to vice-chairman of the defense committee, I am pleased with the value base on which the defense is based, and especially the Telemark battalion who has transformed it into a more tailor-made edition of their mission. I hope that debate gets more space in the defense, because the soldiers need it to be more secure in their task.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e973	I only have a few comments on parts of the debate. Let me first comment on what Einar Holstad said that the pre-storers are based on obsolete material. It's a positive error. On the contrary, here's a roll. We have put forward advance stockpiles today, after the former Minister of Defence Jørgen Kosmo renegotiated the agreement with the Americans in the mid-1990s. The Americans have, among other things: material taken out, both to the Balkans and Afghanistan, which will then be replaced. It also means that this is, to the very most extent, modern defence material. It's not long since the committee was visiting Værnes and got to see the stores that are there. Then I have a question for the Progress Party – and it fits so well that it is Per Ove Width who is going to have posts after me. The Policy and Action Programme of the Progress Party for 2001-2005 reads on page 58: ‘The order of rescue helicopters should be further developed with the Defence as a central operator and under the overall operational management of the Defence.’ For those who read this and know the scarce logistical resources under which the Defense operates, it seems logical that the Defence acquires a helicopter that will be part of the Defence and the Defence Logistics in a cost-effective way. I therefore wonder whether the spokesman of the Progressive Party in this matter in the Committee on Justice speaks on behalf of his party when he so strongly argues that the unit helicopter, the NH 90, should not be elected as a rescue helicopter. I would also ask the Minister of Justice, who is now in the Chamber, to listen to what is being said here. The working party has signalled to a great extent what we believe in that matter. The progress party might actually come to the fore if it's the case that the Ministry of Justice comes up with the wrong planes, to say it that way. I expect that we will get a case for treatment in Stortinget before Christmas. So to the comments from, among other things, Marit Arnstad on Heimevernet and the investigation carried out in connection with the military professional investigation that comes to Stortinget in the proposition of spring. If there is any investigation in the military professional investigation where one has adhered to the clear majority remarks contained in the committee position of St.prp. No 55 for 2001-2002, this must be the investigation. There we asked for greater flexibility, greater specialisation, greater emphasis on quality, then on differences in effort in cities and on the ice – to put it that way – more specialised departments and a review of the rural structure. So here you've been most closely related to the leaders of the Greatness.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e989	I have to say I'm a little surprised by Bjørn Hernæs' play. He admits to me that I have – I really don't know what kind of expression he used – devalued or not boasted enough of the Defense. That's exactly what I did. After the Council of State said that I support and build under what she said about the defence doing a very good job, and they do so both outside and at home. So it must not be misunderstood, as Hernæs would like. I did not criticize the Minister of Defence either. I asked her, and I would like it to be clarified, whether there is disagreement between her and the head of defence, as the head of defense has so strongly criticized this defence agreement, which is no longer what it should be. In the case of soldiers and equipment, that's exactly what the head of defense says, that with this budget he is unable to buy new and better protective equipment for soldiers to be sent out. It's his professional assessment. But I am sure that the defense absolutely will not send out soldiers who are not well equipped. I'm convinced of that. In the case of helicopters, on which Marit Nybakk was involved, there is a debate taking place in the Progress Party. I can immediately say that my position is probably the same as that of Marit Nybakks, that we are going for the NH90. But that there's discussion about this, it's not going to hide on. And as she also said, this is a matter that comes to Stortinget. Then we shall have made an assessment and a decision on it. Marit Arnstad drew up proposal No. 4 in the debate here. It was probably due to a slight misunderstanding between Marit Arnstad and me. The Progress Party is still on the proposal. We would like to promote the proposal, then on our own behalf, so that there should be no misunderstandings about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1002	The representative Per Ove Wideth has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1006	As the case-rapporteur for the rescue helicopter service – that is the part that remains in the defence budget – I will praise the defence for the high quality of that service, and the security it provides for people in vulnerable jobs on land and sea. It is good to see that the defence, through its high operational competence, can make such a contribution to the best possible care of life and health when the accident is over. This job is to continue the defense. Then I will return to Iraq and Norwegian forces there. I asked a few questions to the Minister of Defence that I did not get an answer to, and I would like to repeat them. The questions were: how much of the allocation over Cape. 1792 will go to Iraq in 2004? And how does the Minister of Defence view the opportunities to increase Norway's contribution to peace missions in Africa in this allocation? I am thinking here not only of the economic impact, but also of the resources available to carry out operations in Africa if the missions in both Iraq, Afghanistan and Kosovo are to continue into the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1013	Just to try to complete the post that I had started on: Russia is still a neighbor it's important to have a good relationship with. The Labour Party will therefore stress that we take responsibility for issues that may affect Norway’s relationship with Russia. It is important for us how Russia manages its fish inspection, its nuclear waste, its oil production and its oil transport. The relationship between Norway and Russia is a relationship between a small country and a major act. The Russian authorities attach great strategic importance to their northern fleet. Most of Russia's strategic nuclear weapons are on board ships native to the Kola Peninsula, and it will continue to be an essential Russian military task to protect them. The large natural resources associated with the Russian northern regions will enhance this image. That said, it must also be said that Russia’s military forces have large quantities of older, poorly maintained equipment to be deployed. This retirement is desirable to be carried out properly. On this basis, Norway has engaged in the cleaning and securing of radioactive material from Russian depleted submarines. Cooperation between Russia, the United States and Norway, and now also the United Kingdom, is an important instrument in supporting Russian defence in solving these problems. Norway and Russia have neighbouring interests in an area of major resource and strategic importance. In this way, the situation and developments in the northern regions have an impact on Norway, and not least on the Norwegian maritime defence system. Defence must play a role that can stabilise the region as a whole. The role of the defence may include the presence of Norwegian maritime vessels and other military capabilities for the purpose of monitoring, the exercise of authority and the continuous enforcement of sovereignty. Cooperation between Air Force and Maritime Defence is important here, for air surveillance can cover a much larger area than the vessels. However, the vessels may seek out what is to be investigated. The purchase of our new frigates and MTBs is important in this way. These vessels, together with the Coast Guard and the Air Force, will guarantee our sovereignty in the area. And then, in a few years' time, I think everyone will thank the majority of the Defence Committee for maintaining the ships in Norway. The teams will probably also be grateful, not least because they then get a mountain tour.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1026	I think the debate comes out a little crooked when it is obvious that the representative Hernæs from the Right believes that people who have an opinion that is not entirely in line with theirs do not show the necessary respect for the defence and the forces associated with the defence. It'll be to debate on a slightly crooked basis. As far as the centre party is concerned, we have never concealed the fact that we have been involved in decisions concerning international participation both in Kosovo and in Afghanistan, and we also want us to be involved in UN operations in the years ahead. We have not agreed to Iraq's participation, and we have no desire to participate in EU-led operations. However, having participated in part of the operations now being carried out cannot mean that it should not be possible to raise a debate on the balance between a defence to assert sovereignty in our own territory and monitor our major coastal areas, and a defence to contribute at the same time to international operations. It must be possible to discuss whether the balance is reasonable, and whether the progress we are looking forward to will contribute to a reasonable balance between national and international defence, and whether it is so brazenly claimed by the Right, that there are no problems relating to either training, training or the pursuit of the activities that you are going to undertake, whether it is national or international, but that they are simply going into a cluster. It must be possible to raise that debate. I think that debate is going to be very important in the future, not least in relation to the next long-term plan. I also believe that it is easy to cut in the Army in peacetime. Then, in a way, the Army is a kind of sleeping bear and can probably easily be perceived as baking. But we know that it's the Army and, in part, the Home Office that's going to be crucial in a territorial defense, if we're still going to have that kind of defense. Therefore, I also think that the discussions on the reductions made in connection with the Army are important in this way. After the Right’s comments today, almost one has to ask whether it is legitimate at all to raise a debate. The reaction that comes seems almost a little bit anxious. Otherwise, it will be exciting to see today, from Nybakk’s comments, how the Workers’ Party chooses to deal with the Protection of the Home in the future, and whether there will continue to be a collective working party dealing with what you are talking about, ‘in the shade or in the city’. Otherwise, I would say that I am a little surprised that the Progress Party is now once again promoting the proposal for Hysnes Fort. However, it is clear that when it is done by the Progress Party, the Central Party has no choice but to recommend that our representatives also vote in favour of the proposal when it first comes to substance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1043	‘The defence has always been loyal to political decisions, perhaps too much,’ said the re-presentant Espelund. It made me push a little bit, because it is relatively unusual that someone in this assembly wants a free-going defense that does not show loyalty to political decisions. I hope for the longest time that it was a delay. The most interesting policy in the position from the Defence Committee to this year's budget is that the SV and the Central Party have a total of seven joint comments. It's getting closer to what you might call solid follow-up, and the relationship must be said to be a relatively unusual constellation for someone who knows a little bit about Norwegian political history. But what makes it extra interesting is that these two who have fixed followers, both have an intense desire to reign with the Workers' Party in the next big time period. And it's of the things that unduly stimulate the imagination, to imagine which defence and security policy such a government should practice. It must be one of the closest things you can get to bingo in politics. In particular, there is one of those joint comments that there is reason to be interested. It is the Norwegian effort in Iraq. The interesting thing is that those who problematize this effort are constantly changing their reasoning. At one moment there is consideration for the safety of Norwegian soldiers that is the matter. At the next moment, it is assumed that humanitarian organisations – which are not in Iraq – should be run in the legs. In the next moment again, there is a question of whether this is the right priority, or whether we should have been elsewhere than in Iraq. When it comes to the matter, there is only one of two possible positions to be taken on the situation in Iraq and the recommendation of the UN Security Council to all Member States to contribute to the stabilisation of the Iraqi society. Either it is believed that Norway should withdraw its efforts, and that in the event of this, it would be a positive contribution to the realisation of what the United Nations has asked the Member States to contribute to, or it is believed that we must continue to do the job we do. It would be interesting to know what the two parties really think about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1054	Only a few sentences on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, where we ask the Government to ‘make an evaluation of Defence Buildings and its activities in connection with the internal billing of rental costs’. On my travels in Defence Norway I have seen a lot strange. I've seen a lot of positive. Most of it's been positive. But what I see now during the day is that quite a lot of equipment is missing. It's rusting. It decays and gets destroyed, while it's 1 meter away, for example. The car is an empty garage. The reason why the empty garage is standing there is simply that the defence, that is, the one unit, cannot afford to rent and pay the rent required by the Defence Building. There may be both buildings built by the Germans many years ago, and there may be completely new facilities on which the Defense has spent money today. But the question is, is this the right use? Is there something creeping around here? I find it strange that we cannot afford to store good, modern equipment, that due to rental costs it is sold at spot prices to purchasers, and that therefore, as the Progress Party sees it, we weaken the defense. That is why I am very surprised that the majority cannot take part in that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1061	I find out that the issue of the acquisition of new rescue helicopters has been raised. First of all, before I go into that matter, as others express great recognition to those who operate today's rescue helicopters, the 330-square, and the excellent cooperation they have with good forces in Norwegian society. In the case of rescue helicopters, it has been treated by Stortinget. The size decided to have a helicopter professional forum. That forum got a composition from both the defence and the civil side and has had a unanimous recommendation. The Government has then explained in the 2004 budget proposal of the Ministry of Justice that the procurement strategy would be assessed on the basis of this recommendation and on the basis of looking at the option. In the recent ageing of the Ministry of Finance, issued on 28 November, and presented by me on this pulpit on 2 December, it says that there has been a complaint from the ESA regarding the possible use of the option, and that the Government will await that complaint. At the same time, however, it is sought to extend the option option, and then return to Stortinget in an appropriate way with the acquisition strategy for new helicopters. I think it was right to provide this case information.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1072	I might have saved myself, but it's good to get a little bit of practice going up on this platform as well. When the representative Inge Wohnning challenged me, I just wanted to make it clear that it was not meant to be a defense that would go on its own, in the form of it as a link to a defense that is not loyal to its superior and civil authorities. But I have to admit, I really meant what I said. I expect the defense to be honest and tell you what will be the consequences of not getting the funds that you have foreseen, and that you also need to solve the problems that the Storting assume the defense will be able to solve. Now that I have taken the floor anyway, I will regret another little thing. I have seen that the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Center have been the three parties that have been willing to give the most funds to the Defence to maintain a strong and good Norwegian defence. I record that one of the parties has now come into trouble. I am sorry that you might spend time and the effort to suspect those who want to keep the course they have been on for a long time. I think we should try to use the resources we have. We need to strengthen our defence, and we need to cooperate on this, instead of questioning the motives that individuals have in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1081	I received a specific question from the representative Bjørklund, related to the estimate of the assignment in Iraq in the first half of 2004. As an estimate, we have estimated that six months to cost approx. Seventy-five million. kr in the continuation on which it is indicated that we are aiming, both in written letter to the Stortinget on 30 October and in committee hearing on 12 November. Then I also got questions from Bjørklund about it would enable us to take on other types of UN missions during the year. The general view is that the operations we are already involved in are financed from Cape. 1792 in the defence budget. So it concerns Iraq, Afghanistan, Kosovo and a number of UN missions, while new missions that emerge in the next year need to be explicitly funded, as we got it to Iraq last year and to Afghanistan for the first year this has emerged. Then there have been some comments, among others. from the Progress Party, related to the budgetary level and camel closure in the Right, because we are now cooperating with the Labour Party. To that I would say that the budget level is among the highest we've ever had. When we went into the government, we increased the defence budget from about 27.5 billion to about 29.5 billion kroner, and that's a significant increase. But defense is more than money. Defence is also a willingness to modernise, and what concerns me a little about the Progress Party is that they are more and more involved with the SV and the Center Party. I can say briefly that you get the impression that the Progress Party agrees to money, but no to modernisation, while SV says no to money and no to modernisation. Then I define modernisation as emphasising reaction ability and real ability, instead of volume. It brings me to this with the input forces that SV had in mind. SV stated that they are opposed to an intervention defense, but then I would say, what is one for? All the units we have in the Naval Defense Force are part of the Marine Defense Force, all units in the Army are part of the Army's Force of Effort, and all units in the Air Force are part of the Air Defence Force's response force – and then you're against the Defense Force, you're really against the defense we have, if you don't ignore the Home Guard. Even the Coast Guard was in the first war in Iraq when we sent K/V 'Andenes'. The whole point of modern defense is that we put emphasis on ability more than on volume, and that there is the ability at home to solve assignments at home that are the most important. But there's an additional effect that we can also do out-of-office jobs. Transformation has become an important motto in NATO. Transformation is about the ability to acquire new equipment, to operate in new ways and to think new. Then I would like to invite the Progress Party to learn from Åse Wisløff Nilssen, who herself described that she had transformed herself “from pacifist to vice-chairman of the defense committee” and to the defense friend.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1101	Bear Hernæs has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short note – a short note means one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1104	Agreed, this is going to be very short. There was a small wound over some of the inlays instead. Marit Arnstad is quite right in saying that it must be possible to raise the debate, but it must also be allowed to disagree and to be surprised that it is possible to go in for the enforcement of sovereignty in our large sea areas and at the same time say no to the vessels that can enforce that sovereignty. As for Per Ove Width's posts, it was usually a little bit of double communication. I now choose at the end of the debate to pay most attention to the fact that he has begun to talk nice about the defense, so it is better that most of the contributions both from him and Espelund were otherwise a continuous black paint of how it stands. Just a little comment on that. The members of the Progress Party say in their comments: ‘These members refer to the dissatisfaction with Norway’s defence efforts that have emerged in NATO.’ I have to ask, does the party have its own intelligence? We're picking up the opposite signals from NATO. We get signals and reports that they are very pleased with Norway, and they highlight Norway as a leading country with respect to the other NATO countries in terms of defence capabilities, conversion and willingness to bet on the Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1121	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[See pages 916 and 922]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1141	There is reason for concern that more and more targets for criminal offences in Norway are under 20 years old. The number of targets between 15 and 20 years has grown significantly in the last five years, and in the 15 to 17 years group, the number of targets has increased by more than 30 pst. during the last seven years. Today more than 170 young people under the age of 20 are in prison, seven of whom today are between 15 and 17 years old. I'm sure everyone agrees that there are seven too many. The risk of ending up behind the walls is much greater in Norway than in our neighbouring countries. You have 28 pst. Of the convictions served their sentence outside prison in Norway, a total of 65 pst. of those sentenced in Sweden an alternative form of punishment. However, in relation to this, it has to be noted that there are many prisoners who are at all times in Norwegian prisons per year. 100000 inhabitants, the number is low compared to the Nordic countries as a whole. The reason for this difference is, among other things, Norway generally has short-term prison sentences. Many short judges could therefore be determined by alternative responses. In addition, a majority of prisoners are reported to have major drug problems, as well as mental problems. Many people have mental problems alone. So we need more than ever to look at the content of the punishment, not just the length. Fortunately, there is a broad consensus between most parties represented on the Stortinget, perhaps with the exception of the Advance Party, that it must be sought against younger offenders to react differently than with prison sentences. Yes, some of us would also say that it is better to react with alternative punishment than with a purely conditional response where a young offender can actually feel that he does not get a response. Widening the use of alternative responses must primarily be the result of our wanting less reoccurrence crime and more rehabilitation. Winning in relation to pay queues we get to take as a good extra effect. Nevertheless, this gain is obvious and is necessary. Far better than cutting down on the convictions and letting the prisoners out to nothing in the past, it might be to react with an alternative criminal reaction. There are in particular four forms of reaction I want to raise in this interpellation: community punishment, conflict council, youth contract and the so-called Section 12 zone. Fortunately, the Social Penalty has broad support in Stortinget, and we want to expand its use. It is good that an overall political environment wants this to go a long way, thus giving the criminal reaction necessary and great political legitimacy. Social penalties are intended to replace both social services and conditional supervisory convictions, and the form of penalties emphasises that the sentence is to be subject to an individualised social adaptation programme. It involves both socially beneficial service and crime prevention measures such as drug and violence-related programmes. The Social Penalty has everything we can actually want from a criminal reaction. The punishment is a punishment and is a real burden on those who are convicted of this reaction. However, punishment has a high potential for rehabilitation, contact with new environments, work training and treatment. Finally, this form of punishment represents a great opportunity for the repair of offended persons. The Social Penalty may be the first step on the road to a fixed employment relationship for the sentence, which could also be given the possibility of e.g.: to pay compensation and remedy the damage caused. The prison sentence has little of this. I am therefore convinced that the increased use of alternative responses will also meet with a great deal of understanding among those affected by crime, provided that we politicians give the alternatives political legitimacy. And finally, in terms of the social penalty, it's important that you have rice behind the mirror. If you commit a crime again or a breach of the conditions, you must be sentenced to imprisonment. It is therefore gratifying, but far enough on the way, that in the first quarter of 2003, 313 community sentences and 31 community service sentences were implemented under old schemes, which in total amount to 350 judges only in the first quarter. In the first six months of this year, it looks like we've already reached the level for the whole of 2002. In other words, we're on the right track in terms of social punishment, but there's still a little bit left. It is also for what, in my view, constitutes a legal security issue, major regional differences. The evaluation of the introduction of the social penalty shows that there are some differences in both the number of judges and the content and implementation of the sentence. Oslo, Akershus and Østfold account for almost 1/3 of the judgments in 2002. If you add one to Hordaland, these four counties make up 40 pst. by all the Judges in force. It shows us several things: that we have a major challenge in balancing regional differences, that the other states and regions have a lot left, and that there is a great potential in relation to this reaction. The National Attorney, the Criminal Service, the Norwegian Prisons and Free Care Associations and others are actually unisoningly voting in favour of increased use of this. On the question of youth contracts, there is also an exciting way to respond. I am also well aware of the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice's commitment in this way in recent times. To a large extent, such contracts create active and non-passive reactions, such as: the purely conditional judgments of young people are often given. How far has the Ministry been in relation to such youth contracts? And will it be legalized and launched throughout the country? The experiment on youth contracts is an alternative criminal response to young offenders, which started in several municipalities and police districts in 2001, and should be expanded. The agreement between a young offender, with the consent of a perpetrator on the one hand, and the police and local authority on the other, opens up for the repair and insight of their own behaviour. It is good that young people aged 15 to 17 years in the contract undertake to carry out specified activities on the ground that the judicial authorities then refrain from further prosecution. The youth contract requires close cooperation with municipal agencies and the police and must contain measures that are being taken quickly and that contribute to changing behaviour. The environment around young people — parents and other important supporters — must also contribute. This would be in line with the initiative announced by the Ministry of Justice in relation to child and youth crime, and also with a very commendable initiative. The question of the use of the conflict councils is also in the same street, and it has been dealt with in the past by the Stortinget, and insofar as it also has ambition in relation to it. It is a very important arena both to mitigate conflict and to create new opportunities for the parties involved in conflicts. Finally, it is essential to increase the use of so-called §12 soning, where prisoners can be transferred to treatment, mainly for drug problems, as quickly as possible. This is where we wear traps. An approach called ‘Drug Court’ should be assessed as soon as possible, not necessarily by its own specialised court, but with authority and competence, for example. in existing courts. These should be allowed to judge treatment. 60-70 pst. by the inmates struggling with drug problems, we know, and a lot of repeat crime would have been avoided if we had the power to get more people in treatment. I interpolate with these questions to help us put more pressure on and speed up action on alternative forms of reconciliation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1169	Targeted responses to unlawful behaviour are part of efforts to prevent new offences. This requires both rapid and appropriate action by society. The short period of time between crime and reaction and individual adaptation of the measure are burdensome to young offenders. When I now answer, I would first say that the representative Storberget has not clarified what he is adding to the concept of home-soning, but I am at least going to come up with some alternatives that can be used during the atoning of punishment while you can live in your own home. First of all, it's about the social penalty, which is one of the alternatives that I have a great expectation of. I have stated in the past that I expected it to be used by the courts, especially against first-time criminals and young offenders. A certain amount of inertia was recorded in some districts the first time after the entry into force of the scheme, but I am very pleased to announce that in the month-on-month shift October-November, 860 judges have received for the implementation of community sanctions to date this year. I agree with the representative of Storberget that it is a great potential to bring about further development of this punishment in different parts of the country. We are now evaluating the introduction and use of the social penalty. The first interim report was already available early in the spring. It showed that more than half of those who were under sentence at the turn of the year were under 25 years of age. The system works well. After the end of the year, we will receive a new interim report where prosecutors, judges and administrative cooperation partners have also been interviewed. This is what we are doing to ensure that the system is functioning according to its intention and is given the strength and scope that it should have. A third interim report will be presented in spring 2005. It will be based on interviews with the courts. All in all, this shows that we make sure that social sanctions are known, used and perceived as a proper method of punishment. I fully agree that there are a number of situations where this punishment could and should have been used instead of, for example. is sent into institutions where you are sitting under so-called open shelter. I expect that the use of community sanctions will continue to increase in 2004, and I therefore see no reason at this stage to extend the scope beyond what is applicable to this punishment today. In the case of a youth contract, there is an agreement between a young offender, with the consent of a perpetrator on the one hand, and the police and municipal authorities on the other. It shall contain measures which are to be taken quickly and which are likely to contribute to changing behaviour. Implementation of the contract requires close cooperation between municipal authorities and the police. The environment around young people — parents and other important supporters — must also contribute. The contract shall contain both fines and improvements. The bots perspective should signal – both for young people and the outside world – that youth contracts are a response to criminal acts. Improvement involves sufficient support from society to enable young people to change their behaviour. Trials of youth contracts as an alternative response to offences committed by young people aged 15 to 18 started in seven municipalities and police districts in 2001 and are particularly directed at young people who have not yet entered a fixed crime pattern. The project, which started in May 2002, was initiated on the basis of Danish experience, as part of the Government's Action Plan against Child and Youth Crime, St.meld. No 17 for 1999-2000. It has been run in cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. The final report will be delivered in December and will provide the basis for an assessment of whether this response will be a legal option. The experience of the project will be assessed in the context of the other efforts on young offenders. I have attended a seminar at the School of Police, where important experiences were presented from this project, where I believe that the following can be seen: It has worked well in many cases. In addition, it has given us insight into what is needed to make it work well. Personally, I would already like to express that I am very positive about this reaction, and I want to take the initiative that we should be able to benefit from it in the continuation, but I will not go further into the various aspects until I have received the final report. Penalisation outside prison with special conditions is an alternative for those convictions that have shown that they want to do something about their situation and that are actively in favour of their own rehabilitation. There are rather strict demands for convictions to be implemented at the last part of the sentence in this way. The convictions must have been half of the sentence. This means that only criminal sentences of a certain length are punishable in this way. Furthermore, they must be in need of rehabilitation and have shown a marked positive development. In addition, they must have permanent housing and employment in the form of school or work for a minimum of full-time employment. This form of criminal enforcement was introduced by the Penal Code. So far, there have been few convictions that have been carried out in this way. The Ministry has therefore taken the initiative in relation to the criminal justice regions to make the system better known among the prisoners and to encourage prisons, in particular contact officers, to work towards a solution where the last part of the sentence can be carried out outside prison. I have earlier in Stortinget stated that I want such a development, and I repeat it again here today. In the case of conflict advice, young people aged 12-17 years have been the group of offenders in which this form of reaction has been most widely used. Conflict advice is based on the volunteering of the parties, and we know that a very large proportion of young offenders agree to this alternative criminal reaction. Happy is that this also applies to offenders under the criminal lavalier. In 2002, the number of criminal cases transferred to the conflict councils had fallen alarmingly. We took this seriously. Throughout this year, the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the National Attorney General, has stressed the need to stimulate the police and prosecution authorities to send over several cases involving young offenders to conflict resolution agencies. Work has produced results. Half-yearly statistics for this year show that we are at least 20 pst. increase in cases transferred compared to last year. I know that there has been an increase in the use of conflict advice in most police districts, so that justice is respected. I will contribute to the maintenance and continuation of the good work for increased use of the conflict management system. I assume that the use of the reactions I have entered here will continue to increase. At the same time, I am concerned that the qualitative aspect of the content of the reactions and the implementation of the reactions should increase as the use increases. In the case of §12 zoning, it has also been stated, as has been dealt with in the review of the Ministry of Justice's budget a few days ago here in the Chamber, that it will increase in the time to come. However, there are important challenges here when reorganising who will now manage and manage the measures for those who need treatment or rehabilitation and care for their drug problem. I want to put it straight, that there will be a lot of demands on the health business of the country in relation to what you've been used to from health care when it comes to meeting this group. I assume you have this willingness to convert here, but it is absolutely essential for, among other things. Crime prevention should be able to achieve its objectives. I want to take the steps I'm going to take, in dialogue with, among others. The Ministry of Health, in order to ensure that, but I choose to stress it because here we can quickly meet cultures that have not been used to dealing with these kinds of questions, and then at least we have to do what we can to make culture so that those who need help get help, get help, and don't get stuck because of system clamps, which many people are subjected to. § 12 zoning I think I will also be able to use actively as an alternative when we get conditional judges. We know that in situations such as that referred to by the ‘Drug Court’ scheme to which the representative of Storberget, and which I have taken the initiative to investigate, we can be a way of organising some form of administrative cooperation. I have never thought, and the representative of Storberget has understood me quite correctly, that it is a special court. But we better talk about particularly suitable judges, who may be concerned about this type of case, where the point is that the drug addict being talked about can actually meet the same judge all the time, so that once a conditional judgment has been given, there is – as the scheme is practised in Ireland – at the same time a cooperation around the person where the health services, the police, those involved in education, those involved in work, etc. cooperates systematically around those who need this assistance. To put it another way: you have to make sure that the system is tailored around him, and then the court will be the meeting place for everything. Such administrative cooperation may take place in many other ways, as the Ministry of Justice has now provided in cooperation with a number of other Norwegian departments, especially with regard to children and young people. But using court should also be a way that I think we might benefit from trying. That is why we have launched this investigation team that I expect to be notified next year. I believe in such a reaction, but not least I believe that if it is to succeed, a close and coordinated follow-up is required. Often it's like this in Norway, and I'd like to repeat it again in this room, I've said it many times, that we're talking about money, and that's important, but you're the world how much money is frozen between people's senses. If we manage to thaw it up, we can get a lot of good solutions, and especially if we can get local politicians who either party learn to give back coverage to the good field workers so that especially young people who take training in professions that have to do with people who are in a difficult situation get the security to dry out some mistakes. If they don't dare to make mistakes, they'll never learn anything, and then we'll just sit and change the paper for sure. I follow the intention of the representative of Storberget’s interpellation – here we have a great job to do in many contexts. If I'm going to conclude this post, it has to be something like this: we're going to be tough on crime, but we're going to be intelligent in our reaction to illegal behaviour. The goal will always be to prevent new crime, and stop a criminal racetrack for the benefit of society and the young offender.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1205	I thank you for the answer and find that we are, to say the least, completely in agreement, they have the same goal and believe that this is an important way to think about it. In this way, I don't think there's so much party-political hostility in it, but there's a lot of good politics in it, which I hope we can spend some of the time in the rest of the ageing period – and those who had to be elected in the next period – to watch. There are two elements in this debate that I think are important in this way. First of all, in terms of the specific reaction forms we have, it's things to pick up in relation to how we've made the law. I am convinced that the Ministry of Justice is also working on it in relation to the assessment of both contracts and conflict councils, and not least of social sanctions and the issue, for example. whether, by judgement on proposals or allegations of imprisonment up to 120 days, the primary use of community sanctions is to have it as a general rule in order to obtain a mandatory assessment. That's an opportunity. And in the case of the conviction of young people under 20 years of age, the social penalty shall be the main reaction alongside the conditional response to convictions that do not qualify for a prison sentence beyond one year. The definition of these types of guidelines gives at least clear signals, which are in many ways the definition of current practice. There is also a six-year limit in relation to social punishment, by not being able to impose social penalties on offenders who qualify for prison for more than six years. It seems unlucky to some types of crime. If a youth today sends a text message that itself has a threat, it can qualify for offences for some offences that have up to 10 years of imprisonment and that disqualify him from receiving community punishment. So here we should be able to see a little bit of the law to just prevent these types of examples. But the most important thing about this discussion, I think, is that for a number of reasons, we would have a lot to pick up if we could get a coordinated political assessment of just the alternative reactions, both conflict councils, youth contracts, community sanctions and §12-soning. I would recommend to the Minister of Justice and those who will continue to work on this field, to get to it. Firstly, we should look these really up against each other, see how they can be coordinated in a practical way and function. But it is also true that much of the braking compared to how you have been judged, among other things. social sanctions, the use of the conflict council, etc., have been of a procedural nature. In many ways, the systems have not interacted with each other. That's why I think it would be very useful to have a joint treatment of this, maybe invite the Government to come to Stortinget with a big message about alternative reactions, where you "back up" to the extent that all the assessments and evaluations that are now being done in all fields, and that I think it is very commendable that the Ministry of Justice is working with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1214	As a politician – and also as a state councillor – I don't like selling a product until I have something to sell. It will appear from my post here today, but also from many other activities by my side, that on behalf of the Government I am just aiming to further develop and put into practice what can be called alternative forms of reaction, i.e. intelligent responses, in response to the heading ‘Crime against crime’. The projects described to do something about child and youth criminals, which are precisely based on broad cooperation across the levels of government and the national and local levels, are an expression of this. Looking at Section 12, Section 13 and Section 16 of the Penal Code is an expression of this. Looking at youth contracts, conflict councils and social sanctions is an expression of this. When I look at it so widely, it's because I think Norway is such a transparent society that if we react in time, we can wisely and in a good way stop someone from ending up with a criminal career. But the big challenge is not – I think – in what kind of decisions we make, but in what kind of mentality works. Let me say – without it having to do with this – that earlier today I received an investigation from the Women's Violence Committee. Then I chose to use an expression – I have learned it from the women's movement and have finally understood it: when you talk about violence against women and children, you meet the so-called glass wall. I have the experience that when I say it to journalists, male journalists look easily confused at me, while female journalists instantly see what I'm talking about. Now I understand at least what this means. There are some issues that cannot be immediately measured on the political scoring table in the form of immediate action – or, for that matter, immediate, streamlined action – or in the form of budgetary competition to throw money at people, but which are simply about developing skills, attitudes and building communities through cooperation – and they take time. It also does so in the field that the representative Storberget has taken up in a commendable manner. And so I'm working in the same form, which I think it's been important to work after, to expose and combat violence against women and children. I am concerned about the same thing about alternative criminal reactions, and in terms of helping what I can, for children and young people to be turned around in time. There's nothing more important than turning someone in time. I want to end by saying it this way: When the police see someone, there are an incredible number of others who have seen it before. And being able to get the effort from those who see it first, in connection with other good forces, is great. It's easier to turn a teenager than a fourteen-year-old, and it's easier to turn a fourteen-year-old than a nineteen-year-old. Using Norwegian society's knowledge and understanding of this, to have both spirit, tone and strength in the debate that has been set up here, I am convinced that we can get results. The figures that we have so far, over both social punishment, youth contracts and conflict councils, confirm this in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1227	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1230	I want to expand a little bit what we've been talking about now, because I also believe very much in school mediation, which has started at some schools. It has been shown to have a major preventative effect, at least on those young people who have conflicts with their schoolmates. Both school mediation and conflict counseling teach young people who have committed a criminal act to settle themselves. But they also learn to be able to apologize to the person or people they have done the act against. They have to put their own words on the difficulty they're facing, and only that can be difficult enough for some of these young people. If the young person has committed violence against comrades or others either because of anger reactions or because of intoxication, it should have been such that there was an alternative to violence treatment in each state that these young people could receive. Then the problem could be tackled quickly, already at very young age. I think that then the young person would learn to get rid of this problem before he or she might get a partner and become a parent. It would probably prevent much of the family violence in the future if such a chain could get in place and be used. The need for money for drugs is often the reason some youths commit criminal acts. Therefore, it is getting treatment so that they get out of their drug problem quickly, absolutely preventively. The vast majority of these youths are wondering their parents for too long. And when parents discover the problem, it's not easy to convince the youngster that treatment needs to be done. Therefore, they should be admitted to treatment at the first — or at least the second — time they are taken to do something criminal. They do not go to this treatment on a voluntary basis. That is why I believe that they should be judged for treatment and not for prison. But then we have to have many more treatment sites than what we have today. A survey conducted at the Oslo, Akershus, Østfold, Hedmark and Oppland counties in 2000 found that it was 39 p.m. injecting drug users, while 16 pst. reported significant consumption of illicit drugs before prison. Prisoning is a way to keep young people away from criminal acts, but not a way to get them away from their drug problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1241	Today's interpellation is about alternative forms of reconciliation. Let me first begin by saying that stay in prison is and will be the main form of compensation for the sentence imposed. If punishment is not perceived as ‘an evil’, we lose some of the individual and general preventative effects of the punishment. The individual convicted person and society in general must feel and feel that reconciliation of punishment should be avoided, so that the consequences of criminal behaviour are in no way easily taken into account. For the Right, it is important that the basis for the detention itself is not neglected. But, when it is said: Punishment of punishment shall not be custody or rest days until new crime is committed. That is why we must have forms of reaction that are also constructive. In particular, in the case of young offenders, the experience is that imprisonment is not necessarily the most constructive method of punishment. Therefore, it is also agreed that young offenders in particular may face reactions other than traditional prisons. It is a particularly unfortunate development that younger and younger people are committing crimes, that these crimes are occurring more often now than before, and they are often more serious. Ran, violence and drug crimes are examples of such crime. As a lawyer, I am concerned that this trend will continue. I am pleased with the clear signals that both the Minister of Justice, the Committee of Justice and the National Attorney General have sent out on the increase in the use of community punishment, that it produces results. It has been said earlier in the debate that there is a clear increase in the imposition of community sanctions this year. I am very pleased that the clear signals given are also followed up by the courts. Creating a secure society for all by preventing crime is an important societal task. Prevention is important, but once crime has been committed, society must also have a clear idea of an appropriate response. Preventing relapses into criminal acts is crucial. I am therefore very pleased that the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice have launched a project in which six departments now come together to take joint responsibility with young offenders. It is true that young offenders often face problems other than crime. Family relationships, school, work and belonging are some key. I am therefore concerned that we take full responsibility when we respond to the individual young offender. In particular, I am concerned that the measures must be responsible for the young person and involve others — family and community. Furthermore, I am concerned that young offenders do not become a caste ball or receive poor follow-up. Alternative forms of reconciliation are a good way to turn young offenders around. But unlike the interpellant, I do not agree that, for example. Home zoning is a good alternative. It is, in my view, a socially reprehensible proposal, while at the same time it is a passive one. One might say that the condemnation of social punishment and mediation in conflict councils is a form of domestic reconciliation. I'm a follower of that kind of home soning, but not the one with electronic footlinks.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1260	I want to give some credit to the representative Storberget for having addressed this issue. I fully agree with what the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has now come up with in summary and in conclusion. I think that the Council of State also had a presentation of the matter – and a goal – that I can fully support. So when the representative Storberget asks questions about whether the Progress Party agrees – perhaps the only party here in the Chamber who gets the question – I will answer that it is really about fine-tuning how you express yourself. I see it as much of the Progress Party regards crime as others. With regard to the heavy criminals, those who do the gross crimes, we're not interested in them being treated with silk gloves. We are concerned that the perpetrators of minor crimes would like to be able to zone at home, as the representative of Greece pointed out, so that one can know where people are. If it's using a piece or other means, it gets to be. We're willing to go a little bit further there. We are concerned about what might happen now in the wake of Europe becoming a more open society, with people coming to Norway. I think crime will increase. I think that the few prisons we have in Norway must be used for heavier criminals that we may be releasing too early today because our prisons are delicious. Those who commit less criminal acts, we have little opportunity to deal with them constructively. Municipalities have a major challenge in this area in following up with money to the conflict council. The teachers may have their full rent to follow up in completely different areas. I'm asking you to look at the resources that are needed to follow up on exactly what we have here as a goal. What worries me, too, is that even though the Storting and the Government are in agreement, it's hard to follow up on this in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1275	As an old city councilman in Bergen, I remember that we had an annual round with the police chief in Bergen, who was Rolf B. Wegner at the time. He once answered the question, what works best to avoid crime in society? He looked right into his eyes – I think there was a Frp who asked the question – and answered with the following simple clarification: It is to make sure that there are good growing-up conditions for children and young people! So there's no one in the police who's in doubt about, or any of us who's been here for a long time. That's the starting point. And if you look at what this interpellation, which I'm glad Knut Storberget has traveled, is about, it's primarily how you manage to create a total criminal care. It is about how one manages to create a society in which criminal care is a part and which has one main objective, the same main objective as that of SV, namely that good criminal policy should be characterised primarily by effective prevention, but that when criminal acts are first committed, it is essential that the perpetrators meet with rapid and correct – the Minister of Justice called intelligent – responses. The aim of these reactions shall be to prevent new crime. Then it's strange, we in SV think that we can't use more alternative forms of settlement, alternative criminal care, than what we do in Norway today. And I've always thought that the Minister of Justice speaks with great commitment, but sometimes I think there's a lot of commitment to how much money there is that follows up this commitment to get things done. There is no doubt that when we reach e.g. If the number of settlements is increased without following up with money for prison education, these settlements will not be better, they will be worse than the other settlements were. Now that we have a long line to the prisons, why don't we get a new review, also a little in line with the suggestions Knut Storberget had? Why don't we get a new review of the pile with all those in the queue, just to see if more of these can get community punishment? Why can't we make a proper assessment of this at home, so that the Storting can take a proper view of it? And why are we not given more money to some of the measures that we know are working, such as. Alternatives to Violence, and maybe they're creating a new Mini-Stiffinner, where we get a follow-up to people who have shorter sentences? Often it strikes me that we sometimes try to solve social problems with punishment. It's not the grievances from Greece that we need, that everyone goes to prison. They're going to jail if it's the best way for society to create a better society, or we have to contribute more alternative ways to implement them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1288	The issue raised by the representative Storberget through his interpellation is highly relevant and important. Interpellation is deeply concerned with the purpose of punishment and its effect. Is punishment a evil that society imposes on a criminal for its own sake, or do we have a more humane and intelligent purpose of punishment? For the Christian People's Party, the answer is clear: the punishment, on the one hand, is to show society's response to crime, but most importantly, it is to have a rehabilitating effect. If we are to be credible in this respect, we must contribute to improving the content of criminal justice. I allow myself to remember that the budgets of criminal services, both this year and next year, are strengthened. Thus, the implementation of penalties can contribute better to rehabilitation. There is no doubt that alternative forms of reconciliation should be used more extensively. Both the use of social penalties and conflict advice have a good impact. The offender comes close to the victim in the conflict council, and in a unique way gets an understanding of both the consequences of his actions and the ability to settle. Societal punishment has much of the same effect. Furthermore, it is important that young offenders are not introduced to the prison environment if sanctions other than prison sentences are appropriate in the specific case. The preliminary experience with youth contracts is good. We know that young people who end up on the slope need follow-up and clear frameworks – they get them through a youth contract. Although the experience of such contracts is still well known, we know that under contract, young people are able to live without alcohol and resume schooling. Nothing is better than that! However, the Christian People's Party is very sceptical about introducing domestic reconciliation as an alternative form of reconciliation. In our opinion, the members of the criminal service are an important factor in combating new crime. This influence will be small in the case of home soning with electronic surveillance where the roadworthiness test is the central one. In addition, electronic surveillance could be socially unfair because of differences in home conditions. The Christian People's Party also believes that it is ethically questionable to involve the offender's family in the execution of the sentence by making the home a prison. Against this background, it is incomprehensible to me that the Labour Party – and the Socialist Left Party, in addition to the Advance Party, as the representative Espelund said – are in favour of domestic reconciliation as an alternative to prison. The Christian People's Party wants the Ministry of Justice to assess the extension of the arrangements in the light of experience in the field of community sanctions, conflict councils and youth contracts. We also want action to be taken to help ensure that both courts and the prosecution authority make greater use of the possibilities provided by the legislation today to impose alternative compensation and transfer to the conflict resolution board.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1306	There is an important debate going on when the representative of Storberget addresses the question of alternative forms of reconciliation. And the fundamental question that lies below is this: how should society react to young people found guilty of crime, and how should we contribute to bringing these people back to society after settlement? The Central Party believes that, in parallel with the debate on forms of reconciliation, it should also be a debate that focuses more on the content of the settlement itself. It could be crucial to prevent relapses because one feels that one does not come back to a normal social life after an end of reconciliation. Unfortunately, the public debate often calls for more and more severe penalties and the issue of pay cows taking criminal policy into account, and it helps to weaken the focus on the need to bring the offender back to society, both through the content of the settlement that is taking place and also through the various forms of settlement that can be implemented. The central party is in favour of the use of conflict advice in several cases. It may seem preventative and help to reduce the risk of repetition when the perpetrator meets the victim face to face to make up for himself. After all, the experience of the conflict council is as far as has been mentioned previously, largely positive. The centre party generally believes that we also need to provide better opportunities for punishment in open prisons. This, I believe, is particularly relevant at the end of a reconciliation period in order to facilitate the transition from prison to a life of freedom. We also believe that it is a right priority when the Budget of Justice grants money to increase the use of housing in treatment institutions. Prisoners must be offered treatment so that they can be returned to society. On the other hand, the Central Party shares the view expressed here by the Christian People's Party and the Right on the question of so-called home-soning as an alternative to ordinary atonement. The centre party is skeptical about it, both because it can help make the home a prison and because technical and mechanical control can replace the need for ongoing criminal care for the person who is to be punished.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1323	At a time when more and more young people are committing serious crimes, it is important that society has clear and intelligent responses that ensure that the offender does not fall back into criminal activity. I am concerned that we have alternative responses to prison, such as community punishment, open-ended rehabilitation, drug courts, which I would like to warmly welcome. The reaction of society to the convicted must be perceived by the convicted as punishment. There should be a diversity of reaction forms. On the other hand, I deeply disagree with Knut Storberget that home reconciliation is a good alternative. Today, there is a majority against the introduction of a system of home soning in Norway. Only the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party are members of this. I am very sceptical of the scheme and justify it with four main considerations: Firstly, the staff of criminal services are an important factor in combating new crime. It is, of course, a strong underestimation of the work carried out by staff in criminal matters. The influence of employees on the electronic home son would be small in the case of electronic monitoring. It seems that the technical control of the sonar is central rather than giving the convicted person a necessary sharp, first reaction on the part of society. Secondly, electronic monitoring will be socially unfair because home conditions are different. The Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party repeatedly argue in their political argument that they want to treat citizens in a non-discriminatory manner. It is very surprising that the same parties now support a reconciliation system that, to the degrees, will become socially unfair and will largely discriminate against the convicted. Economic ability and social living conditions shall, in my view, be irrelevant to the way in which the compensation is carried out. Will the reconciliation conditions be equivalent to one with a cellar apartment in the interior of Oslo and for a villa owner on the best west side, to use a worn-out cliché from the social-democratic electoral language? The feeling of punishment will also depend on the technical means available to individuals to communicate with the outside world and on the size of the social community. Punishment for some will not be punished – it will all be a comical reaction to how helpless society is to the criminals. Thirdly, it is also ethically questionable to involve the offender’s family in the execution of the sentence by making the home a prison. Fourthly and lastly: I understand the interpellant's desire to be creative in the use of new and modern technical methods for controlling the criminal environment. Technology can be used for so many – including monitoring. Today we are monitored by cameras in many places – in shopping malls, kiosks, roads, pedestrian streets, etc. We are monitored by data terminals every time we use electronic cards. Abuse is present. I'm skeptical about creating a society where we have a mindless relationship with the use of computer chips. The representatives of the SV and the Progress Party in the Judicial Committee have previously proposed that data or radio labels should be potentially and previously condemned, in particular by violent or violent men. Does the interpellant want a society that uses technology as uncritical as the SV and the Progress Party, namely to label potential criminals? The protection of privacy is weakened by a casual use of data monitoring.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1340	I thank you for the contributions that have been made. I think it has been very important in relation to the work to be done. To the extent that you need to give the Ministry of Justice Marsjordre – we have to follow up the defence debate that took place earlier this morning – you have to do it. What has been said about alternative criminal reactions must be a reinforced marshalling earth for an already marching company. It's important, but there's a rather different attitude in this big deal about this type of reaction than the many former ministers of justice have met in Stortinget, among others. in the 1970s, when the community sanctions were launched. I'm not going to go into it any more, but it's interesting, and it's nice, to see that it's so unisonous in relation to alternative reactions. This debate is too important for it to become a curious discussion on electronic chips in relation to home-soning. I have to say that you read this interpellation in a very special way if you kind of read between the lines that you accept such a system as the representative Deepevig sketches. I'm very sceptical about such a system myself, and I have no problem saying that. At the same time, the representative Dybevig must know that his own party has contributed to the legislation we now have, which actually opens up to some extent for reconciliation at home. So it shouldn't be a surprise. The question then is whether someone wants an extension in relation to it, for example. to be able to charge 15-, 16-, 17-year-olds to be at home when they are not at school – without pieces and such things, but as a condition for a conditional judgment. It's clear that it's interesting to have involved in this assessment. When it comes to the question of trying to avoid much of the street crime committed by younger people in central urban areas, I think that this should be considered as an action, without including it in such a macabre debate on electronic labelling, to which most of us, including us from the Workers' Party, are very sceptical. The invitation I'm now making – I think as far as we're really good at this, but it doesn't have to be broken by that kind of input – is just about trying to see this in context. It's about seeing all these types of reactions, and seeing if we can get a win-win situation relative to who is involved in the exercise of the reaction, and not least in relation to what kind of reaction is being practiced. In this way, this has been a good manifestation that a total Norwegian growth actually wants to think alternatively and intelligently, so that you get the best benefit from the punishment. And just to say that: it's also often reactions that are more economically viable, and that in the long run means a very good proceeds – if you want to speak socio-economically. A youth contract can be cheaper than entering a youth. Social security can be cheaper than housing. And in the long term, we will also be able to earn by reducing crime. Win-win!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1356	To stick to the military language, so the company doesn't march, it's spread progress. It is actually necessary to have spread the advance to capture all the people who are to be given a chance to turn in time. But I perceived the representative of Storberget's intention as ready. I perceived it as a strong, encouraging call in relation to a movement that is already well underway. I'm happy to accept that. With regard to the views expressed in the debate, I would like to say to the representative, Mr Storberget, that the Swedish variant of home-soning must be relatively well buried in the main hall. I'm glad. I'm not going to elaborate on what it's all about. Well, I think I'll do it. It is based on the use of electronic surveillance for those who have a home. Those who don't have a home don't get it. The sad thing about that system is that the Swedes did it at a time when they built up the prisons. And it's not much cheaper than the open settlement institutions we have in Norway. The representative Dybevig had an excellent summary of why this is objectionable. And the representative of Storberget contributed through his contribution to cleaning up important aspects of it. I'm glad. As far as the debate is concerned, I think that is the point that, in addition to others, among other things. pointed out by the representative Rui, to think about the mediation institute, is very important. There is no doubt that we have an important room for action in Norway. There may be mediation in relation to school situations, where things can start early and stop early. There could also be mediation between adults, for that matter. It goes well into the pattern of youth contracts, the use of conflict advice, community punishment and § 12 zoning, but also the penal enforcement law § 13 and 16, which I have said I will look into. In terms of practical work to ensure special youth coming out after atonement, the representative Holmås pointed to the Mini-Stifner. Mini-Stifinner is part of the plan of the Ministry of Justice and other departments to turn people around in time. It's simply the recipe for something that's wise, namely getting at young people with drug problems very early and then trying to make sure that they don't end up in a vicious circle, with crime and drug and drug addiction. With regard to the content of the ransom, as many have pointed out, there has been a power cap, at least if you see it in connection with our budgets. In the budget for this year, the Government provided an increase of 14 million. kr, adopted in Stortinget. Then the next year's budget has increased by another five million. kr as proposed by the Government, increased by 7 million. kr, which is added to the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party. When you see this over a longer period of time, this is a pretty powerful selection. It's important to pay attention to the fact that if you're violent and can't master your mind, you're going to get help, so that you don't get a chance to come back again. It's under pressure, and I'm very happy that it's done. As far as the debate is concerned, I regard it as very constructive. But it is also demanding, because here we do not make decisions. We actually have to do a lot of mobilization. It must be done primarily locally, with an invitation to all of us to make a significant effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1371	That is the examination of case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1377	We then go to voting on the matters that are listed on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1384	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Per Ove Width, on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, on proposal No. 5, by Per Ove Width on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 6 and 7, from Per Ove Width on behalf of the Progress Party, First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 6 and 7 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit an investigation into the extensive need for long-range missiles, as well as the political and security aspects of such acquisition.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to examine the possibilities of Norwegian participation in the project on the development of new transport aircraft and to provide an explanation of the consequences of any link with the project.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1418	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate the possibilities for sharing the purchase of new fighter aircraft and that the Government investigates the consequences of split-buy relationships with the current suppliers of new fighter aircraft.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1433	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1, 2 and 3, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit a review of the costs and results of the development agreements with JSF and Eurofighter.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to contribute to ensuring the operation of Bæria if it is difficult to obtain full user funding from 2005.’; Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an evaluation of Defence Buildings and its activities in connection with the internal billing of rental costs.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1460	As regards proposal No: 4, the President considers that the adoption of the proposal would have an impact on the budgetary framework. The proposal must therefore be regarded as so-called framework-dependent and should not come to vote as an independent proposal other than the respective framework area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1463	President!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1470	Carl I. Hagen gets the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1473	I disagree with the President's view that this proposal is framework-dependent. Nor has it been considered by the Committee and treated as a framework depending on its position. In that case, it would also be linked to an allocation proposal. The proposal, for those who are not familiar with it, is as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to contribute to the ‘Hysnes clay’ being transferred to Rissa Kommune free of charge or at significantly reduced prices.’ There's nothing about when this is going to happen. If this proposal is adopted, the 2004 budget will not be affected if the agreement is concluded before 1 January 2004, and it will be transferred free of charge in December. It will also comply with the powers granted to the Government last year, when the defence budget was under consideration. This is not related to 2004. There is no requirement for this to happen in 2004. That's my first objection. It is also the case that it is set up on the income side – it has not been dealt with by the Committee in an annotated form – a revenue chapter called 4710 Defence Buildings and New Buildings and New Facilities, cf. cap. 1710, 47 Sales of property 130 million. kr. The total amount of appropriations that can be seen in the context of 1710 is 1,595 million. kr. It is a relatively significant amount, and then the question is to what extent we are now going to go into the details of the framework, as the President said, that it can thus have an impact on the budgetary framework of the defence budget. It appears from a letter to the Committee dated 3 December, which has been received because the chairman of the Committee, who is not a co-rapporteur, has found it appropriate to send a letter to the Minister of Defence and to obtain an assessment of the proposal from other parties, and that letter was received by the Committee on 3 December, that this property has a rate of 9 million. kr. Of course, 9 million. kr in the total defence budget will probably change the framework, if we're so good at keeping the framework of the defence budget that 9 million. kr in uncertainty shall have any effect. I just want to mention that we also have to treat in Stortinget St.prp. No 20 for 2003-2004, which concerns changes to the 2003 defence budget, and here there are changes to the billions of the defence budget. I could mention that in the cape. 1710 – which is an integral part of what we are now talking about, chap. 4710 – operating surplus increased by 458 million. kr, and new buildings and installations will be reduced by 632 million. kr. Then I'm a little surprised that the president thinks that a building is worth $9 million. kr may interfere with the entire framework system for the establishment of the defence budget. When I look at how often there are changes during the year, in this case cap. 4710 Sales of property, and the size of the deviations during the year, is 9 million. kr will be such a large amount that it destroys the whole system here in the house. Then I see in St. prp. No 20 that there are no changes on the cap. 4710 at all. It was supposed to mean selling about what was budgeted a year ago. I found that a little bit strange. In the regrouping proposal, there are changes in amounts as low as NOK 600 000, and then changes of as much as SEK 9 million should be made. kr have been noted. I have contacted the Ministry of Defence, but after investigations, the Council of Ministers informs me that if there is no greater deviation in this item than 10 to 20 million. There is no need to inform the Storting about it or to make any changes to the budget. So this equation that some of us want to authorize to dispose of or give away at a lower price, can be a maximum value of $9 million. kr. Then I think the Stortinget should actually be allowed to vote over whether we want to dispose of it at a lower price or give it away. We're only at risk of $9 million. kr, and I think that is very small. I will of course afterwards ask for the overview of the budget chapter. 4710, sale of properties of 130 million. kr. Obviously, here the ministry has to be able to provide a detailed overview, where every building is set up with an amount, when you can have objections to exactly this building mass of 9 million. kr cannot be disposed of or disposed of. I maintain that this is a framework-independent proposal on which the Stortinget should vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1489	For its part, the President has to abide by the rules laid down for the budgetary procedure in the Grand Duchy, and here it is that if this proposal is adopted it will have an impact on the budgetary framework. The reality of the matter, and whether the question should have been dealt with in another way by those who really want to give a handshake to this municipality, is completely irrelevant to the President of this voting question. Since there is clearly disagreement as to the President's understanding of whether this has an impact on the budgetary framework or not, the President proposes that there should be a vote on whether proposal No. 4 has to come to a reality vote or one.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1494	I ask for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1504	I just need to say that we in SV support that there should be a vote on this proposal today, so that it is clear to the Stortinget what we are going for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e1509	The President's proposal is that proposal No. 4 must be regarded as so-called framework-dependent and should not come to vote as an independent proposal other than the respective framework area. We're voting on the president's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e3075	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they want to vote against it. It also applies to the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-04.ana.ud724e3103	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
