ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e51	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Socialist Left Party Group to the representative of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik from 27 November until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Jørund Leknes, shall be called to meet during the period of leave.3. Jørund Leknes is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e72	Jørund Leknes is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e86	At the request of the family, the Culture and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 15 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the Coastal Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e95	First, I want to decorate a little bit of the members of the committee. After the first comments from me were made, there was a great desire for us to add together a good work base through the communication about the cultural school system for the schools in the municipalities, the county council and also the state. Therefore, there are not many points on which we disagree, so I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation climate and a good result, in my opinion, of such an important national project as the cultural school bag has become for all primary schools in the country. The cultural school bag is not really new. Among other things, Møre and Romsdal counties and not least Sandefjord and Vestfold counties have been working on projects that eventually became a cultural school bag for all primary schools in these counties since the mid-1990s. This was so positive that former Minister of Culture Ellen Horn thought this had to be a national initiative to raise awareness of all the values that lie in cultural experiences. This cultural effort for children entered the 2001 cultural budget and was well received. Later, a majority in Stortinget, the Labour Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Center Party decided to change the key. This means that the profits from Norsk Tipping are shared equally between sport and cultural purposes, and the research funds are phased out. Of the means used for cultural purposes, two thirds are distributed by the Storting and one third by the King, and of the funds distributed by the King is 40 pst. to the cultural school bag. I'll come back to the economy in this later. This is a cultural promise for the whole nation, not least for the children. And where are we going to meet all the kids? Well, it's in school, and that's why the Committee says that you should primarily use school time to complete the cultural school system. Reform 97 states that school training should help to create a context in the development of children and young people. The cultural school bag fits well with this, but it should be an expanded offer, in addition to the regular implementation of the curriculum. The message about the cultural school bag is good and has good content. This rose was to the Council of State. The main message of the Communication is that all primary school children will receive a professional cultural offer. As the Committee says, the cultural school bag will help all primary school students gain access to, get to know and have a positive relationship with art and cultural experiences of all kinds. The main challenge is that students not only become passive spectators but have the opportunity to participate in both for and after work. Students will be allowed to expand in the world of culture through different offers and activities. The Committee points out that the cultural school bag should have a local lashing and refers to the need for good cooperation between schools and cultural schools, local artists, musicians, museums and, in particular, libraries. It is important that through ten years of schooling, students have been introduced to and experienced most of the art and cultural species. I think this will help to stimulate an understanding of the culture of the individual children that it will bring with it into adulthood. It may also stimulate an even greater interest in the music and cultural schools, but then we have to get rid of the queues there and get a proper financial framework for the cultural schools. The Committee agrees that it is still important for schools to be visited by the Rikskonzerts. Unfortunately, there are still 46 municipalities on the waiting list to be visited by these concerts. Here's one of the few points where the committee disagrees, and it goes on the economy of the Riks Concerts. The members of the Committee from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre believe that the Rikskonzerts must be financed through the annual government budgets, and that is why we have invested 3 million in the Workers' Party. kr on our alternative budget for 2004. On the other hand, the majority of the Committee, the Advance Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, believe that the money should come from the central part of the funding to the cultural school bag, but that the funds mean that the minority should go to an innovative project rather than to operational resources. In the case of tour activities, the Committee considers it important that the Ministry carry out a review of the whole of the activities carried out by both regional and national institutions, in order to coordinate this with the cultural school bag if possible. The Committee also considers that State aid festivals should be included in the cooperation. With so much money and so many actors there is a need for coordination. I am very pleased with what the Council of State writes in the communication on bets on films, and the committee wants this bet to go over several years. The Communication describes a number of different models of how work on the cultural school system can be organised, and I think it is important for municipalities to develop their own models. But when this is done, it's important that the model gets a local anchor. By that I mean political anchoring, and this is what the Committee says quite a lot about in the vote. Everyone is aware that all of this makes great demands on the school and teachers, and that some teachers feel this as an extra burden. But with some empowerment and good cooperation, it must be interesting to be involved in shaping and continuing the cultural diversity we have in Norway. We should not forget multicultural Norway, and we should not forget that we also have disabled children who, like all other children, have equal opportunities through the cultural school system. The Committee agrees with the Council of State that ABM development should be the secretariat of the cultural school system and that both Norwegian Cultural Councils and ABM development allocate the central funds according to project applications. When you hear that nearly 2,000 applications had been received from all over the country when the deadline for applying was at the end of September 2003, you can see how popular this really is, and it also testifies to a large cultural activity for children across the country. For the Committee, it has been very important for the money to go to the students and not to be administered in the different stages. I am extremely pleased that the Workers' Party's proposal that the percentage distribution should be 60 pst. for local distribution and 40 pst. until the central subparagraph is amended from 2004 and 2005. Of the 180 million. kr expected from the 2005 Tipping Resources surplus, the central element will receive 36 million. kr, which is 20 pst., while the local term is 144 million. kr for distribution, which is 80 pst. This should go unabated to the municipalities where the children are. We have done with this what was the intention of the Cultural School, and it will be exciting to follow this national cultural project until the 2006 evaluation. It has also been submitted to the Church, Education and Research Committee, which had no comments on the draft.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e148	For the dissemination of artistic experiences to school students, the Norway Map is very complex. Some counties and municipalities have lost considerable resources in this, while others are scarcely able to avail themselves of the offers put in their hands. So the fact that we now get the cultural school bag is very happy. This scheme will mean a dramatic escalation of the cultural offerings of Norwegian students and will be a scheme that reaches everyone. The school allowance shall be compulsory, not only for the pupils, but also for the individual school and teacher. The cultural school system thus represents an exciting challenge for the entire school system and, of course, represents a very great challenge for cultural life, which now needs to be delivered. As a national project, the cultural school bag is a new scheme. When it is to be launched across the country, a great deal of flexibility is required, with room for local solutions, while having clear objectives to work towards. In the discussions about administrative arrangements and about who will deliver what, we must stick to the overall perspective. The most important thing here is in the Right's view that we ensure high quality offers, that the money actually belongs to students in the form of art experiences, i.e. that we do not administer the money on the road, and that the offers reach all students, regardless of geography or who is the school owner. What administrative measures will provide the best possible solutions in the long term is not to be expected. Therefore, the right supports the provision of an evaluation of the school bag as early as 2006. Schools will then have tried out the possibilities for a few years, which competence will be built up, and we will see a clearer picture of who and through which channels the best offers are given. A lot of talk is that we'll see how the school bag can best be a well-functioning system where the way between the student and the artist is very short. The aim is that Norwegian schools themselves can take the order role and show insight and creativity in their efforts to find ideas and projects that are right for them. In some places, regional tour-based services will be correct and necessary, while in others many schools will choose individually from professional approaches, interests, localisations or perhaps also from the cultural background of the students. When the cultural school bag is to be put to full use, the county councils are given the primary responsibility to ensure that good offers are available to the schools. The right is very pleased that there is a cross-political agreement that this work should be the contribution of county councils to the scheme and that they should therefore not be able to charge the school bag for administrative expenditure. Many cultural institutions and organisations have expressed their interest in providing services through the cultural school system. The National Concerts and Norwegian Scene Art Use are examples of this. From the Right’s point of view, it is important that we now build on existing knowledge and capacity, whether the offers are channelled through county municipalities or other existing establishments. The important thing is not who offers, or in what way, but what is offered, and that it is offered. Good cooperation between the work of county municipalities and the national actors in cultural life, such as the three so-called Rs, is therefore important. Here the ministry has an important and demanding job to do. The Progress Party wants a system in which funds are now channelled directly to the municipalities and to the individual schools. Right this in large parts of the country is a little too early, and that such a solution will now easily go beyond the quality of what is offered. But as I said, the variations are great. Where appropriate, there should be room for flexible solutions so that the ministry can also channel funds directly for provision in the municipalities. This is particularly relevant in the large municipalities that have already worked a lot with cultural services for their students. The proposal for a Decision under II opens this up. Government parties will support this proposal in line with the desire to support local measures. The working party, SV and the Centre have spent a lot of energy limiting how the so-called central resources of the school bag can be used. In particular, emphasis has been placed on the non-application of school baggage to institutions such as the Rikskonserten or Norsk Scene Art Use. The main reason for this has been that they believe that the school offerings of these institutions should be financed from the ordinary government budget appropriations. The right notes that this is a way of signaling that cultural appropriations need to be increased. This will continue to be possible during the subsequent annual budgetary procedures. I noticed to the representative Torny Pedersen's announcement that the Workers' Party in its alternative budget this year has set aside 3 million. kr for this purpose. So now it's not going to be 3 million. NOK needed, but SEK 18 million. kr. So I guess this alone proves that these opposition parties also do not intend to fill up the aftermath of the Rikskonserts to a very good arrangement in relation to what we are now discussing. In this crossroads, therefore, there is reason to raise questions about whether or not we are so concerned about the political dimension that we are losing sight of the importance of how we are now offering students a qualitatively good offer. The school leave means a very strong escalation of the offer, and in the short term it is not obvious that county councils have the power to produce enough and not least good enough offers. In particular, the desire for high quality is an important consideration. Bad start-ups will easily result in too low a qualitative list over time. No one will be worthy of that, and it will not be to follow the intentions of those parties that have talked so much about in relation to the school bag. Institutions such as Norsk Senekunstbruk, Norsk Author Centre and the Riks Concerts represent the country's highest competence in their fields, and they have devices and networks to quickly mobilise a large number of best-quality offers. A commitment also to these institutions will be effective use of funds for the benefit of students. Making the best school bag is about taking the best cancers into use. Here, all resources must be given room to move on the same layer. Over the years, the national concerts have built up considerable competence in school concerts. It is obvious to the right that this is being used, and is very satisfied that the government parties have received support from the Progress Party to open this up. The cultural school system also offers good opportunities for municipalities to build better bridges between cultural life and school. Cultural schools can be thought of in new roles; local cultural intermediaries can strengthen their ties with schools, as has now been successfully done in the museum area. The possibilities are many, but you have to keep the requirement of quality and professionalism in place all the time. The school term means a big boost for schools and at least an equal boost for cultural life. Now it's just to bet on the best cancers and wish happiness.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e176	It may not be expected that the Progress Party would be standing here praising the cultural school bag and its contents. But when you make agreements to achieve something yourself, it can often result in a little giving. The cultural school bag was probably such a give-thing for us, but we live well with it. The results of this agreement mean that primary school children learn to know art and culture. And for the Progress Party, it is important that resources are directed towards children and young people. That is why we are joining the overall objectives of the cultural school system. Like the previous speakers, I will be allowed to praise the Committee on the consensus and consensus on the overall objectives that we actually have. Despite this, you can read in the papers today that some people think that the cultural committee is doing very bad work and is not very reflective, which I would strongly reject. I think the committee in this cultural school bag work has just shown that we are reflected, and that we are concerned that children and young people will get the most out of this money. What worries us, on the other hand, is if the government is going to continue to spend money from the tipping surplus for various purposes that otherwise naturally belong to the state budget. There is no guarantee that the funding for the cultural school system will be as expected, when both regional cultural buildings and voluntary teams and organisations are increasingly moving within the framework of the tipping surplus. This worries us, partly because it means that an agreement is no longer an agreement than until one of the parties breaks it, but not least because resources that should have gone to children and young people, now seems to be going a long way and not at all hitting the different teams and organisations as we had thought. Therefore, it is very important that as much as possible of the funds allocated to them benefit schoolchildren and provide them with good cultural experiences. The Progress Party wishes to establish a financing mechanism whereby each child is allocated his/her cultural bag. You take $180 million. DKK and parts of 600 000 school children, this would amount to approx. 300 kroner per month. Children per day years. There'll actually be a lot of culture for that money! Furthermore, in the Progress Party, we could imagine that the individual school, in cooperation with the FAU, made the money for the benefit of its students, and gave the children the opportunity to become acquainted with their local culture. We are therefore very sceptical that the county council should be responsible for these funds, and that each school should apply for different projects, firstly because we are afraid that the county councils will employ a number of people to administer the scheme – and we know that it is already going on – and secondly because we are afraid that the funds will be distributed differently between municipalities. The progress party is not satisfied with that 40 pst. the funds are to be distributed from the centre; this means that government employees are also required to administer the scheme here. But we are aware that the scheme needs to sit a little bit out in Kommune-Norway. That is why we support the Workers' Party's proposal for a gradual phasing-out of the central pot, so that in 2004 70 pst. for local actions and in 2005 80 pst. It is therefore also very important to stress that the funds should go unabated to the municipalities – and I believe that that is the case – so that no county councils are blowing up their administrations to manage and pass on the funds to the cultural school system. The cultural provision of children can be very exciting and a challenge for local cultural life. At the same time, it is important to provide a certain quality of supply. That is why we have put some leads on the content, even though it should be up to each school to choose what the cultural school bag should consist of as much as possible. Since there is still considerable uncertainty in the country about how much and what these means are to be used, an evaluation of the cultural school bag is required once it has worked for a few years. This is in order to see whether a correction is needed for the management of funds, but also to assess whether the target audience has been met and whether primary school children have actually benefited from this offer in the best possible way. It's about a lot of cultural money for children and young people, and no matter what we bigotry politicians do, there'll certainly be criticism of the way we've chosen to distribute the funds. It is likely that the central bureaucracy will disapprove that we will allow more of the pot to go to the municipalities, and even more likely, municipal bureaucrats will frown upon the fact that the funds will go unabated to the municipalities. But then it's important to remember one thing: the typing key would have had a completely different distribution if not the agreement between the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party and us had managed, and far fewer children would have enjoyed and gained knowledge of the Norwegian culture and diversity of cultural life. We wish the cultural school bag good luck.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e195	Sometimes it feels extra good and meaningful to be a staging representative. The work on the cultural school system has produced such feelings — from small experiments and ideas around the early 1990s to pilot projects on the cultural budget in a few years’ time. What used to be trial posts between 10 and 20 million. On the state budget, by changing the so-called key, it could be realized in full — not just as an extended experiment in some municipalities or counties, but as a general scheme for all young people in all municipalities in all counties in Norway. The anchoring of the cultural school bag is local, it should not be a strong government governance. Centrally, it is important to ensure a balanced geographical distribution of funds. The aim is for the scheme to cover all primary school students in the country, that is to say 610000 pupils divided into over 3000 schools. The Family, Culture and Administration Committee is a committee that travels a lot and meets many cultural workers around. The comments around are unambiguous: the cultural school system is considered to be the most important cultural policy initiative taken over many, many years. The ideas are there, experiences are harvested, the money is in place. It's all hurt, isn't it? Well, I'm afraid it's not that simple. The challenges are many and big. 180-200 million are many cultural crowns in a spice pot between counties and municipalities — used correctly. On the other hand, it's not hard to spend a couple of hundred million more on the same purpose, but on other things, so that the result for each and every young person will be something completely different and not near it at least we in the SV have as the basis for the cultural school bag. It's enough to mention hungry-fed national institutions or pressed municipalities. They want most of the cultural money bag, as we can call it in this context, to meet their needs. That's 180-200 million. Get fast legs to go on, and I am afraid the result will not be very visible to the individual young person around. So a little bit about the distribution. We have always wanted a maximum part to go to the counties and municipalities. We are pleased that the majority of the committee is in the long term committed to an 80 - 20 distribution, which, as it says, should go unabated to the municipalities. Then it says that the department comes back to Stortinget with an assessment of how best to ensure this. There has been uncertainty about the formulations, how they should really be understood. As I understand it, it has to be seen in the context of what we see elsewhere in the setting, namely that the money is to be disposed of by the county cultural department. The county municipality is not the one to have the money, they are to go to the municipalities, but they are to be administered by the county municipality. And the county council contribution is just going to be to fund the administration of the money. This is necessary for the county councils to coordinate the meeting with professionals. It is important for me to make it clear that it is also important for SV to ensure that municipalities are equipped to do their tasks as best they can for both children and young people and other citizens. In this context, it is enough to refer to SV's alternative budget, where we will also give SEK 2.4 billion more in free money to the municipalities after the agreement. This means the possibility of maintaining cultural schools and ensuring other general cultural services in the municipality, so that the money for the cultural school bag is saved. What about the national institutions – are they going to sail their own seas? By no means. But for us, it's important that they get proper frameworks to work under through the ordinary budget. We also show this in practice in our priorities for the SV's alternative cultural budget. We've been wanting that for years. I fully agree with what the Thommes say. When the Riks Concerts say $18 million. kr, the real need is 30 million. kr if the Rikskonserts are to perform their function in the Cultural School Bag. We will contribute to this if that proposal comes on the table. Once we've been detained using funds from the cultural school bag to the Rs, it's precisely because we're afraid that this is going to be a habit. If the money is used that way first, it will continue. We believe that the budget for the cultural school bag is not so large that it can accommodate it. Thommessen also mentioned the three Rs. Even I believe that the development of the Riksteatret in recent years does not mean that they see themselves as a central actor in the cultural school bag. I'd rather highlight Norwegian scene art practice, which maybe should be that actor. Whether the Reichsteatret wants to change his ideas and his practices and make offers that can be real to the cultural school bag, we'd better get back to. What about the receiver around? Here there is a lot, from pure patterns like More and Romsdal, Hedmark and Vestfold, which have a lot of experience and infrastructure in place, to counties and municipalities that have no experience, a rather idea of what the cultural school bag should be. This may be the main challenge in the future: to ensure that the experience gathered over more than 10 years is disseminated to all new actors. At the same time, there must be opportunities for local angles and diversity in the testing of the cultural bag for a period in the future. At the same time, the major challenge is to ensure development and competence and quality at all stages. A comprehensive evaluation of the cultural school bag has been requested in 2006. It is then important to assess to what extent things like competence and quality have been developed and cared for. What about organizer's skills? This is a key element for a successful event, no matter what type we're talking about. Here's the defect. Who do we think should fill these roles? Should there be teachers, should there be professional organisers, or should there be local environments with such competence – or perhaps all of these? This is a self-taught craft with few professionals today, but it might be a bigger profession. The need will be there. It would be important to educate people about this. I know that there has been an initiative in Drammen for a course of study called ‘DICT’, and I know that the High School in Volda is also working with such ideas. It is important that this be communicated from the central administration of the cultural school bag to these environments in order to ensure cooperation in the future. So the problem of good enough productions and enough productions. In the field of music, the need for professional production is reasonable, not least thanks to the Riks Concerts. Here's more about the same thing, and we'll contribute to that. It will be between 35 and 40 million annually. kr in the central pot to operate the central administration and stimulate more and new productions. By the year's budget and by the further transposition of the cultural school bag, we are sceptical about the use of school fees for central institutions to a greater extent, it has its explanation in the fight between the proposers, the ministry and the government parties about the arrangement for both the distribution of money and who will have control over them locally. This may be a discord, but we fear, for example, that. a grant to the National Concerts will continue to charge the budget to the Cultural School. We do not want that, as has been said before. In other fields, it is not very good, for example. in stage art. Both in dance and theatre, a greater boost is needed to make more good productions fill the demand for the cultural school bag. A part of the central means should now be set aside for this purpose, while Norwegian Scene Art Use must be vigorously upgraded and become a natural coordinator for these environments. Today, Norwegian Scene Art is receiving 2.5 million. kr, and here central means should be used to create more productions. And if Thommessen has understood me so that I don't want to use central funds for it, it's wrong. I certainly want to do that. I believe that here we should commit to taking a collective promise, and I believe that Norwegian Scene Art Use might have to be spent between 15 million. NOK 25 million. kr for the next four years to get their art productions up and up. Furthermore, in EN we believe that the cultural school system should include kindergartens and secondary schools as soon as possible, not at the expense of, but in addition to, those offered in primary school. What about the multicultural perspective in the cultural school bag? The Communication sets out the success targets for cultural diversity: ‘The cultural school shall include artistic and cultural expressions with roots in a variety of cultures and from different periods of time.’ Somewhere else it says: ‘Islamic tradition and decoration, Jewish culture and narrative and the international culture that characterises the Catholic Church are aspects that should also be reflected in the Cultural School.’ In the evaluations, overviews and experiences I've seen around, I think these are perspectives that are not taken care of. I also take it for granted that we in the Committee have not followed this up with our own comments and initiatives. This has not been given much attention by other than the actual department, and I commend the department for what has been included in the message, and believe that we should pay attention to following it up. Here a roof has to be taken. We meet exciting cultural times. I am already looking forward to the evaluation in 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e246	The cultural school bag undoubtedly represents one of the most important and exciting cultural bet projects in this decade. When we add up the school bag kit, the construction of new national operas, the marking of the thousandth anniversary and the implementation of the ABM reform, we can allow ourselves to talk about a historic cultural promise for the nation at the turn of the century. The cultural school bag is primarily a bet on the future, a bet on the new generation. It's a commitment to give all primary school students not only knowledge of language, math and physics, as we know is important, but also a cultural competence, a spiritual ballast and a living capital. A growth in which the meeting with art and culture merges as a natural part of the vibrant daily life, we think will help to expand the young people's ability to contact reality and to better meet the many challenges they face in life. But nothing comes of itself. Art and culture also have their codes that you have to get to know. They say the North is born with skis on their legs. Of course that's not true. But what's true is that most people in Norway have a relationship with skiing or football. This was developed through experience, play, games and learning from our childhood. Gradually we were introduced into a code system of rules, historical facts about winners and records, knowledge of practitioners, etc. This provided the basis for us later in life to enjoy the sporting experience as well. So is our relationship to art. We need to get to know the codes. We need to experience the art at close range over time, and learn more about it. We dare to believe that the investment in the cultural school system will do something to the whole population, that it will stimulate the interest both in promoting cultural self-activity and in seeking cultural offers throughout the range of expressions. At a time when people are increasingly spending less of their income on daily bread and more on experiences, it is also important to fill time with substance. Thanks to the change in the key, it was possible to realize the escalation of the cultural school bag faster than it would otherwise have been. The disagreement that may have been surrounding the process in this regard has now been left behind. Now there's a bunch of puddles behind it. What started as a local measure has become a national major effort. It is agreed that the cultural school bag should have a strong local anchoring and that its design should take place locally in each municipality on the basis of local conditions and in interaction with the regional apparatus, coordinated through the individual county municipality. In this context, it is necessary to use the professional resources available at the different levels. For example, many municipalities have: building up their cultural competences; cultural schools can be the best-qualified in many municipalities. In other places, exchangers may be drawn from established cultural institutions. There is a great potential for development in the dissemination of music, visual arts, performing arts, literature and libraries, cultural heritage and cultural memory, and films for children and young people. In the future, many actors can play a more active role in filling this with content. This will not least require the organisation of communication skills, the organisation of tour activities, etc. It is therefore important that, in the coming period, resources are also allocated to equip those actors who might help fill school bags with high quality content, i.e. professional solo artists, orchestras, ensembles and groups, national as well as regional and local. The size scheme currently adopts a distribution system which indicates the proportion of school funds to be allocated annually directly to local action and the proportion to be centrally managed in the future. Overall, all funds must be set up in order to maximise the return of cultural experience and ballast for all the 600 000 school students around the country. The starting point for the offers to be organised must be the individual school's own order. And it will be a major challenge for the different levels of government to make sufficient resources available to meet these orders. It is therefore important that administrative resources are made available at all levels, irrespective of the school resources. It goes without saying that the Storting cannot solve all the issues that will arise in the time that comes. In a field where there is so much commitment, conflicts will easily arise in different directions. Substantial demands will therefore be made to the steering group and Secretariat, which will lead the work nationally, but also to the municipal and municipal actors and their cooperation partners, both to show flexibility and to be able to cut through to ensure the progress of the project, in order to ensure that the cultural school bag can have the importance it intends to have for the individual student’s cultural maturing throughout life.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e269	The size decision to change the distribution of gambling surplus in the spring of 2002 was very happy. A formidable increase to sports and other cultural performances within different genres and forms of expression, with both amateurs and professionals, was an historic lift that the Centre Party felt was very happy. We are also some in that it is right that the funds for research should go over the ordinary state budget, and not from the surplus from Norsk Typing. With the increase in the supply of funds to the cultural school that this change brought, a big message was needed. And first I want to say that there was a very good message from the Council of State. The center part fully supports the main lines. The emphasis on going to activity is good, as is the emphasis on the local anchoring of the cultural school. The cultural school system has developed particularly differently. When the 1996 action plan for strengthening the aesthetics – better known as the Bridge and the Blue Horse – was ready, the enthusiasm was great, and many were ready to face the challenge of strengthening the cultural supply of the base. But missing economies stop many plans. Nevertheless, many have come a long way, and in the setting, there is a special reference to Møre and Romsdal and Sandefjord, which can almost be characterized as a pioneer in this area. For me it would be natural to comment a little bit from More and Romesdal. In 1993, the Young Culture Manifesto was adopted. It was the forerunner of today's system, Kulturnista. From the school year 2003-2004 all the schools in More and Romesdal are included. The county has established its own section which has developed the cultural school as its main work area. Culture Nista is a subscription scheme designed to provide students with annual experiences through theatre, dance, visual arts, literature and music. Annually, the so-called Kulturtorget is arranged. There is an unlikely range of different exciting offerings. The municipalities then come with their wish lists about what they want to offer to their elephants. It's interesting to note that the Moors and Romesdal county council have raised 1 million. kr to extend the cultural school to the continuing school. It is also interesting to note that the municipalities in the county have asked that the kindergartens get an offer similar to Kulturnista. The development of the cultural school system is going on for an exciting time. The goal of accessing artistic and cultural experiences and opportunities for participation for all children has never been stronger than at present. For the Centre Party, it is important to stress that the so-called established environment must not prevent other organisations, artists and cultural workers from contributing and being an important part of the cultural school offering. It is important to remember that when the change was confirmed, it was emphasised that this new effort should not go beyond established government budget posts, but come as a real bet. During the debate, it was underlined by the majority that this should not happen. Unfortunately, that has happened. Chapters and entries in the cultural budget in 2003 and in the 2004 proposal have been cut to some extent, resulting in the intention of the Stortinge to have a monthly weight. In this way I refer to the comment from the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party in the setting, where it is shown to the late Riks Concerts in relation to school concerts. In my opinion, this is an example of what should not be done. National concerts should have sufficient resources to meet the needs of school students in the municipality of Norway. If we get more of these suggestions, we risk that the extra bet we represent users can be less separate. I noticed that the representative, Thommessen, put extra emphasis on the importance of the Rikskonsertans. I agree that they are of great importance, but I would also like to remind you that there are a lot of art and cultural organisations in the whole country that have valuable contributions to what is needed to fill the cultural school. They also depend on stable and prudent permission from Storting to maintain the standard and competence they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e291	The backpack we're discussing today will in the long run give the next generation a new and extra dimension to the concept of art and culture. I think the expanded cultural concept of this bet will really be expanded. Only the fact that all Norwegian schoolchildren are to be given professional help to orient themselves in a wide cultural landscape, and to be helped to become practitioners in many exciting cultural areas, is an important boost in Norwegian school. For the first time, the Stortinget states that all Norwegian children will become both cultural consumers and practitioners within the framework of primary school. From the Workers' Party we are concerned that today's cultural schools will be one of the pillars of this effort. The values of the cultural school shall be added to the cultural school system. The Workers' Party wants the cultural school to be the organiser and co-operator of the projects of which the cultural school bag will consist. The Workers' Party believes that an aggregate increase through today's bet has a common responsibility for the need for the economy of cultural schools, the financial backbone of being a driver for all – I repeat all – Norwegian schoolchildren to have cultural experiences in their everyday school life. Today there is a long queue, a long line of schoolchildren, in front of the door to the cultural school. Thousands of Norwegian kids don't let in. Here are waiting lists, here is a wish to participate, but the money is missing. This is what Stortinget is doing today, and I am very pleased about that. The Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administration is now considering Ei's announcement to Lyst. The cultural schools have finally become visible in the political landscape. There are two issues that I want to address, two issues that have not received a great deal of focus in the debate, first of all, the unique ability of the school bag to create winners, to create other winners – in other areas – than those that are unique in the basic subjects. I think the cultural school bag could give a large student group new arenas to claim. I think a new group of students will find their niche in the classroom where they can show talent, even if it's not in math, Norwegian or English. This is really about improving the quality of Norwegian school. The second relationship I want to point out is the ability of each school to create good alliances with the museum sector and cultural memory protection. For me, this is an area where children can be given new opportunities to become acquainted with their local cultural heritage, both in small communities and in larger cities. This requires that we bet on museum educators, who in a professional and pedagogical way can make arrangements for the different age trends. The cultural school system gives schools a unique opportunity to teach their children their close and distant history. Such knowledge helps to give children security of their own identity and knowledge of their roots in the area in which they grow up. In the museum field, increasing communication skills is a challenge. It is also a challenge to create collaborative relations with cultural memory protection and local organisations operating in the cultural memory area. The working party is concerned that Norwegian children should be proud of their local history and know their roots. Finally, I would like to express the wish that the investment in the cultural school bag will remove the queues in front of the cultural school door and contribute to giving Norwegian young people new values and a more exciting school day. For many years politicians have been arguing about price, while the kids have been concerned about how long they have to wait in line. Now let's let the kids go!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e310	At the same time as the treatment of St. reported. No 38 for 2002-2003, St. meld. No 39 for 2002-2003, Ei only to Llyst to be treated in the Church and Education Committee. It is important and necessary to see these messages in context. There is every reason to welcome the investment in the cultural school bag. The message is a strong signal of emphasising art and cultural dissemination in schools that lack equal opportunities. A lot can be said about the adopted conversion of the key, but there is hardly any disagreement that the cultural school bag is an important and worthy support object once chosen and adopted, to remove the research as a supportive object through the means. The Culture Committee is clear about the importance and accuracy of the importance of culture for individuals and is also clear that the basis for personal development and quality of life is also laid in this field in primary school. As in so many areas, the good foundation can be laid through experiences and experiences from school. If we're to succeed in laying the good foundation, several factors must necessarily contract, and draw in the same direction. The Education Act says that the school should be involved in making students useful. Inclusion of artistic and cultural expressions and experiences and self-activity, as expressed by the general objectives of the curriculum and the specific objectives of the aesthetic subjects, through the cultural school system and through the cultural school, are incredibly important elements in this context. These factors have different status and content in school everyday life, but it can actually go wrong if you don't also see matching goals and tasks. At best, a lack of cooperation will lead to duplication and poor use of resources; in worst cases, lack of cooperation may mean undermining the possibilities of achieving truly good results in the dissemination of art and culture. I am pleased with the clear clarification of the participants' perspective and the fact that the cultural school bag will enable students to develop themselves. Having the good art experience is a great value in itself. If it inspires its own activity, we get a new dimension. This activity may take place not least in the municipal cultural schools. Culture schools have a high level of competence both in culture in general and in the dissemination of culture to children and young people in particular — dissemination not least in relation to the inspiration and development of children’s talents and skills. The link with the cultural schools expressed by the majority of the Committee in its comments is important. I would like to mention in particular the majority's comment that the cultural school system can represent a renewed role for the municipal cultural schools, and it is mentioned that the cultural schools in many places act as a cultural hub for the schools in a municipality. Cultural schools are of enormous importance in many municipalities, especially in small and medium-sized municipalities in the districts. The work done is impressive and has had a major impact on the understanding of art, the dissemination of art, the development of the skills and facilities of individuals and on the cultural life of the municipalities as a whole. It is also in these types of municipalities that participation in cultural schools is highest. In Ulvik, Hardanger is over 96 pst. by primary school students too — a rather incredible number. It is therefore of great importance not only for cultural schools, but for cultural life in general, in many municipalities that links are established between the cultural schools and the cultural school system. I have also noticed that the Progress Party is not included in this comment. It is closely related to the Party's alternative budget, where the appropriations for development within the Council of Culture Schools have been reduced by 7 million. NOK, and it will now remain at their proposal NOK 63 000. There is reason to note the lack of understanding and interest of the Advance Party in the cultural schools. It is gratifying that, in its setting, the Committee clearly provides for local diversity and solutions in terms of both content and organisation. I would also like to stress the importance of the competence of the school and the teacher in this field. Not least is actual ordering competence important. Lack of general competence may become a barrier to successful implementation. The Committee’s reference to this is important, but lack of school’s ability to place orders may in addition create new barriers by failing to carry out the correct orders. It is regrettable that there is disagreement in the vote on the funding of the Rikskonsertes School Concert Schemes. These concerts have proved to be an effective instrument for art dissemination to schools. Of course, it should be a principle that the funds in the cultural school bag should not be a sleeping cushion intended to replace ordinary budgetary resources without delay. However, it is important to avoid the best becoming the enemy of the good, and it is difficult to see that an extension of the school concert scheme will have to endure until, in the hopeful future, it will be possible to meet the full demand of the ordinary budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e333	After the changed key, half of the games will go for cultural purposes. Of this, a more defined section should go to the cultural school. Many see this as the most important new cultural policy action in many years. The project requires cooperation between culture and school, which challenges innovation in interaction and new meeting places. It's not an ordinary cultural project, nor is it an ordinary school project. This is an innovation where both perspectives are to be built in. The target group has no doubt about it. That's the students in the base ball. These means of culture shall not replace other ordinary privileges in the field of culture, but shall also come. Similarly, they shall discharge funds in the school budget. The Committee states that: ‘It is important that the cultural school system as a whole implies an extended cultural offer in addition to the regular implementation of the curriculum’. In its draft decision, the Committee urges the Stortingen to ask the Government to ensure that the best possible use of the funds allocated to the children comes to the fore through cultural experiences. This is important. But I want to add: that's of course. The goal should be to 100 pst. of the gambling funds shall be allocated to actions in the municipalities. That's where the schoolchildren are. Administrative costs at state, county and municipal level must be covered from other sources. We are certain that the measures should have a local anchor fixture as far as possible. The municipalities, the school owners, thus become an integral part of the project's implementation. The majority stress that the county councils have an important administrative role to play in the work. A decisive condition for the success of this management model is good cooperation between municipalities and county councils. The reports we will receive in the next few months on the implementation of the measure in the current school years will provide a better empirical basis to say something more certain about what are the most likely management models, and what should possibly be done. No one will be able to bind to one particular management model. There should be an opening to deploy more resources where success is high, and to make rapid and pragmatic changes in situations where a cooperation relationship does not function properly. In some countries there is already a well-functioning cooperation between several municipalities on parts of the cultural field. An important example in this context is the regional museum, which actively operates local communication of the cultural heritage of school classes in all the municipalities of the region or district concerned. We should not be so committed to thinking about the general levels of administration, the municipality, the county and the state, that it is not advisable to implement elements of the school system by means of qualified cooperation and dissemination tools, which are all organised, and which can be activated in school-related contexts without any significant administrative extra costs. So, as the Committee also points out, it must be room for local and regional solutions. The superior and governing must be the best solutions to reach the 600,000 base students with a wide range of artistic and cultural features. In the field of music, the most cost-effective way to reach all schoolchildren will be to make the school concert offer from the National Academy of Music. I am pleased that the Committee opens up to use this government tool to follow up this important schooling element. I'm a little surprised by the representative from SV, Magnar Lund Bergo, and the hold of SV. In the election campaign I was in a cultural debate with Lund Bergo. When he was challenged directly about the Riks Concerts, he said he was willing to assess his position in relation to funds. So now he doesn't. But that was what was said in the election campaign. I believe that in all areas we should be able to evaluate both state doctors, national, regional and local institutions, free groups and individuals as participants in the implementation of the Cultural School. It must be decided that the means of playing which are put into action should not be used to relieve other means, but should be fully used to implement the specific measure for schoolchildren. In the case of distribution of funds for the 2004–2005 school year, the county councils and others will have to receive preliminary information before Easter next year, with a final confirmation in May following the end of the year settlement in Norwegian Typing. The experience gained from the 2003–04 school year will then be natural to sum up in the 2005 budget proposal. I would also like to stress that we will of course come back in 2006 with the evaluation requested by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e365	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e368	The cultural school bag is like the Workers' Party's child. We are very proud of that child. Now culture can reach even more and many schoolchildren who today may only get the impression from various television channels and bad video cassettes. Now everyone can get the opportunity not only for their own activity, but also for a professional artistic experience. In fact, in many municipalities, libraries are the main meeting place and the cultural intermediary. I just want to ask the Council of State to be kind and confirm that she will fight that there will still be a library in all municipalities. So in today's VG, we've got a so-called expert opinion. Yes, the expert on it! In fact, we want the children to become experts themselves over time. That's why the cultural school bag is so incredibly important.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e379	I have not been able to read the article in the VG yet. But I'll do that. I understand he has entered the committee when he is commented on by so many of you. I want to pour some wormwood in the beggar compared to the fact that the cultural school is the Worker Party's child. I would say that the Left was the first to go out and said that the cultural school was a good thing. They did so, among other things. as progress politicians in More and Romesdal. Sandefjord is also a municipality that did a lot in the field before we could get a central hold of it. The Labour Party was the first to implement the draft budget. That's what they're supposed to have. But I think we should give some of the honor to the Left in this case. At least I want to do it. The library is an important meeting place. We have been handling library laws not long ago. It states that there should be a library in all municipalities. We are open to exceptions if the library offer should be improved, that is, as they have been given it in the Tønsberg and Nøtterøy regions, which the representative knows for sure. In order to be exempted from having libraries in each municipality, the rationale must be that library provision is improved, because this is a very important cultural policy meeting place, which the municipalities must have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e388	The President would point out that to the extent that there is danger and not fun you are discussing, there has always been some uncertainty!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e391	We can take that discussion on a later matter today. First I want to say that I hear you boast of the Workers' Party, and you boast of the Left. Had it not been for Document No. The 8-proposal for the Progress Party, the cultural school bag had never received as much money as it gets today. In addition to that, we have two things on the map today, both of which are initiated by the Progress Party, and despite the fact that we do not have any cultural policy, which our political opponents will claim. Then go to the cultural school bag. We're facing some exciting years of high cultural activity all over the country. It's great that we're in agreement, but it's about a lot of money, a lot of money. I could imagine asking the Council of State how she has intended to ensure that the municipalities actually spend the money on purpose, and how she intends to do so on an ongoing basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e400	I would like to stress that I think the Progress Party has done a very good job in this matter. We're not some about everything, but we're some about some things. I have not been a person who has said that the Progress Party has no cultural policy at all. There's not all we're in either, and we think they're cutting a little too much in the cultural budget. But they have your priorities, and a majority of them at Stortinget have different priorities. One says it's a lot of money. Yeah, there's a lot of money in terms of what the cultural school was initially, but 180 million. kr divided into 600 000 children is no more than what is needed to provide them with a good supply. We would like to give feedback to the Stortinget on how the school funds can best go unabated for action in the municipalities. We can't do that before in the budget proposition for next year. Let's see what happens. For us, it's important that these funds don't go to administration, they're going to go to cultural action. I actually believe that our local politicians will, too, because it's not just us on the Storting that are busy with good cultural provision for our school students, it's certainly our local politicians too. So I think we have our guard badges around the municipalities that want the same thing as us. Therefore, I am optimistic on behalf of the school bag.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e407	The President would like to remind you that direct appeal is only to be made to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e410	The roads of the propulsion party are unpredictable. The council said earlier that Lund Bergo had promised to stand up for the Rikskonzerts in the election campaign. That's actually not necessary, because once again, the Progress Party is making sure that the Riks Concerts get their $18 million. kr of the cultural school sack. Yes, I said we should set up, because we believe that the Riks Concerts are a fundamental key to getting the cultural school bag system in place. But once again, we've been very sceptical about the use of central resources. It's been a dilemma for us. But I can say that if the Advance Party had not been clear already when we opened the first round, we would have set up and supported this, but then on condition that this would happen over a certain period of time. Yes, I've said that in the election campaign, and we haven't gone away from it. I know that the money is secure, and so there is no reason to do anything more about this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e417	I have to say I'm a little surprised that the Swedish Progress Party easily implemented their own promises. I don't think I'm saying anything more than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e422	The President will assume that this is what in other contexts is called shiftwork.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e425	The working party considers that it is essential that the central development funds for the school bag be used for development projects that may have a public interest and benefit. It is therefore important that the money from the cultural school bag does not replace ordinary appropriations in other items so far. Fortunately, the Communication states that the central project funds should not be used for general operating aid or previously established measures, but should be added to this. We in the Workers' Party are very pleased about this. I am therefore surprised that the government parties in the committee will not be able to agree to this in the vote. I'm getting very uncertain about what the Council of State really means. Does she still agree with her own view on the use of the key project funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e431	Yes, I am. At the same time, I would like to stress that I also think it is important that we be able to develop some of the tools we have so that all children can enjoy them, and one of them is the Rikskonsertane. I had also actually wanted the National Exhibitions to be an offer in the Cultural School, because there will be new offers for those children who do not have this offer today. What surprises me is that the Labour Party is clearly going out and saying a lot about the Riks Concerts and wanting to set up with funds, they have 3 million. extra on their budget. They talk about how important the Riks Concerts are, but at the same time I have been our Minister of Culture for two years, and the Labour Party has never fully financed the Riks Concerts before. It could have been a long time ago if it would have been so important for the Labour Party to have them fully financed. Now we're missing 18 million. kr. I think this is a unique chance to make this offer reach all children, so we use the chance, and it seems to me that I'm good.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e436	The Council of State finds it strange that we are satisfied that the Progress Party secures the majority of the Rikskonserts – perhaps so. I said it was a dilemma, it's a real dilemma. What the Council of State has probably also noticed is that the Rikskonserts have been a priority post in SV’s budgets for many years. When it comes to providing the Rikskonserts with full funding, it has never been in SV, nor is it supposed to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e443	I hear what the representative says, and I understand the dilemma. At the same time, I don't understand why SV doesn't use this opportunity to both stand for it in the election campaign, as there's a plurality that goes in for it in the setting, and to see that this is a unique opportunity to do what SV has fought for for for many years, and that many of us have wanted, but we have been looking for the funds. The cultural budget is a budget that has many unsolved tasks, and then we have to try to look for ways to provide a good supply for all children and young people. Today, a good deal of children and young people in Norway are offered from the Rikskonsertane, some do not. So now we have the opportunity to give it to everyone, and I think it's good. I'm glad that the government gets through to it by a plurality in Stortinget, I'm very happy about it, but I had hoped that the representative Lund Bergo would keep what he promised in the election campaign, and that we could be even more people behind this. This is at least implemented, so it's okay, but I couldn't push myself to remind the representative what he said at a meeting we were at together in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e450	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e455	I am pleased to note that the representative, Lund Bergo, on behalf of SV, is fully right in relation to what this discussion has previously been about. I think that's positive. It's about being willing to look at the central level, which is what makes students happy, and not what's a surreptitious about political grips. It's positive that we've got a bit here in terms of distribution. The difference in means between 60 pst and 60 pst respectively. and 70 pst. and 80 pst., which are the next thresholds, will be about future actions directly to the municipalities and not necessarily through the county municipalities, and we want a good dialogue on how they can be designed. When Lund Bergo says that he has no objection that Norwegian scene art use will receive funds centrally, I would like to remind you that the members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre will pay particular attention to: ‘The cultural school bag may not be used for the tour activities of the Rikskonsertes, but may come from ordinary appropriations. These members would point out that the Rikskoncerts must be provided with sufficient ordinary resources to meet the needs of the municipalities. This also applies to the National Exhibitions and Norwegian Scene Art Use so that all counties can participate in the scheme’. And in particular comments from the Socialist Left Party, it underlines that: «Scene art institutions receiving substantial state support should produce productions adapted to the cultural school-scene tours. Institutions with fixed scenes, regional theatres and the Rikstheater are covered.’» Yes, that's fine, and we agree on that. But we know that in reality, the world is the extra promise we're talking about – because we're talking about an extra promise – it costs money. We cannot, for reasons of principle, which I believe are primarily motivated by the intrusion of state councils and policies on the surface, cut us off from using the best resources we have here in the country to create the cultural content. I interpret Lund Bergo to the point that SV is not there either, that they actually want to be part of the drive that has its origin in the Workers' Party when it comes to this. I look forward to further discussions on this issue being able to keep students in focus. When the Riks concerts are used as an example, it's because they have a definite bit. They have their own school concert program that we can actually put our finger on. That is the scheme. It is not a question of general grants either to one or to the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e472	I agree with all those who think it must be a goal that all of our schoolchildren should be visited by the Riks Concerts. But I thought it would be too subtle for us to put so much emphasis on a single institution. We have a lot of organizations and institutions that have done a formidable job in the county in connection with the school bag. I want to go back to More and Romesdal and take the Culture Nista. The Opera in Kristiansund and The Theatre Ours have done a formidable job of filling that bag with content, and I think similar things happen in other states. Prognosis shows that in 2005 we will receive $180 million. kr to the cultural school. When I've shown up with a little bit of criticism about that 80 pst. Of this, go to the county councils, and not 60 pst., as the message says, is the reason why this would benefit users more directly. I have recorded that the message in today's VG is characterised as "unclear" and "little thought" and that the committee is also given the impression of bad work. I take that criticism with great calmness. I remember what has been said by most people here, that the municipalities have come out very differently, and we have to give the municipalities the opportunity to find their school bag and school bag. I look forward to the further development of the Cultural School, and see to it that we will have good cultural actions and cultural experiences for children and young people. In contrast to what is stated in today's VG, I do not see it as a reduction for the young people that they can also be participants and not just recipients in connection with the further development. So finally, I am very pleased with the clarification made by the Council of State in a letter to the Committee of 28 October 2003, where it is an overarching principle that the school system should be locally anchored in the school and in the municipality, as well as that, in the letter of distribution to the county councils, it should be emphasised that the cultural school should have a local foundation and that developments should take place through consultations and in cooperation with the municipalities, and last but not least, that the municipalities should be able to develop their own initiatives and actions in connection with the cultural school. What the Council of State says in its statement, that we must have respect for local and regional solutions, I fully support, and I am very pleased with the clarification that came from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e487	No, we don't run from our election vows. We have the appropriations on our primary budget. I have also said in the past – which should soon be understood – that if it was not clear that this money was secured for the Rikskonserten, we would have contributed to it, but we would have made some demands in addition. I believe that there is no SV that has created uncertainties about national institutions and the use of school bags. This we've had a fight on the whole since day one. The first proposals that came up were to divide 50-50 into national institutions, to divide 60-40, etc. What we think is that what is of national institutions is to be run over the ordinary budgets. And then we say, hey, hey, hey, ‘These members therefore believe that institutions for performing arts which receive substantial state support should produce productions adapted to tours in the cultural school bag. This applies to institutions with fixed scenes, regional theatres and the Rikstheater. This would be to be regarded as part of the ordinary operation and would not trigger exceptional grants. Exceptional measures at school, in addition to the ordinary production of performing arts and touring activities, may, on the other hand, trigger grants from the cultural school bag.» That's what I'm aiming for. That pot of eventually maybe about 40 million. kr which is then central, and the part which does not go to the administration must of course be used to create more productions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e499	I did not really receive a reply as to whether the Council of State agrees with its own communication, which states that central project funds should not be used for general operating support or for pre-established actions. I just want to get an answer as to whether the Council of State still agrees with itself. Of course, as far as the Riks Concerts are concerned, different governments could have given the Riks Concerts what they need over the ordinary budget. Not least, the Council of State has had more chances of doing so. In particular, I think she had the chance for 2004, as we know that the government itself deplored the poor state budget for culture for 2003. Then I might think that the government itself should address this, when the problem is as big as it is, and correctly made a promise to the Riksconcerts over the ordinary budget already for 2004. We would have supported that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e506	This debate is taking the edge off, and we're losing focus. We'll leave a few million to the Riks Concerts to be the big theme. So it's about children and young people all over this country getting $180 million. kr in new, fresh cultural money, and then we drive and hang out in that the Riks Concerts get a small part of this to ensure the quality and professionalism of what is to be disseminated. $180 million. NOK is a terrible amount of money. I am a little worried when the representative from the Central Party is talking about the county councils getting this money. That's not the case. They have to go unabated to the municipalities. The county authorities themselves will take the costs of managing the money, but the money in its entirety – the 60-70-80 percentage – will go to the municipalities. Now let's not lose focus. The cultural school system means a lot to the whole of local culture. I hope that there is very great participation among the children, that children and young people should not only be passive listeners, as we also say something about in the form of a note on this matter, but also active participants, and perhaps later in life also active performers, thanks to this contribution through the cultural school bag.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e515	Olemic Thommess has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e518	I join the representative Woldseth in stressing that the funds we are now talking about are not going to the county councils, but directly to the municipalities. Looking at the relationship between the comments and the decision, it must be clear that the interpretation that we are using, which must be taken into account, is that the funds should go directly to measures in the municipalities and that some channelling via the county municipality is not necessary at all. This is not the case in the present decision. Otherwise, I also agree with the representative, Woldseth, that there has been a strange focus on the Riks Concerts. The Rikskonserts are one example among a lot of people who deliver a good material to what we're talking about right now. The important point is that we're going to sort out what's going to the schools, that we're going to have a clear focus on what's going to the schools, not how we're going to manage ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e526	Eli Sollied Överaas has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e529	I fully support the representative Woldseth and the representative Thommessen when it's claimed that there's too much focus on the Riks Concerts. There's one example of many. So it's possible that I might have been misunderstood. I stick to the comment where we agree that it is still the county municipality that is supposed to be the intermediary, to use that expression, but the centre party has been the proponent, not least in commenting, so that the provision would come close to the possible users, to the municipalities and to the individual student. The note on the cultural spheres as ‘acting as a cultural hub for schools in a municipality’, I also considered it important to underline. All the non-participating Progress Party has agreed that the county council should continue to administer the scheme. Later on, we're going to have an evaluation, and then we're going to get back to how it's going to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e536	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 751]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e551	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e558	I'm going to be very short, so the councillor gets to bed, because I think the council has the flu, and then we're not going to stay her anymore than necessary. A little bit about this matter: It looks like this for me is the day to distribute praise. It is not often that the Labour Party boasts of the members of the Progress Party, but in this case the proposers behind Document No. 8:98 for 2002-2003 get real praise from the Workers' Party. The proposal is that the Government should present a case on different models to borrow and/or rent out art from museums to private individuals, businesses and public enterprises. Being the case rapporteur for this matter was more of a pleasure than a piece of work. It was actually so that the parties managed to have the best suggestions for comments. All the suggestions were positive, and everyone agreed that this was a good thing. The Committee also received very positive letters from the Minister of Culture, as well as a copy of a letter from ABM development to the Minister of Culture. Of both letters, it was found that Norwegian museums had a long experience of lending, and that some were also renting out. Former Norwegian museum development, now ABM development, made an investigation as early as 1999-2000 into the disposal and lending of materials from the museum collections, so there are already a good deal of facts about it. Then everyone in the committee thought: Why reinvent the powder? The Committee therefore asks the Government to take the initiative to start lending and renting without an inquiry into models, which will only delay the content of the good proposal. This is the cross-political agreement. So to the council, take the ball and send it on!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e574	«Lei een Tidenmand og Gode», thought perhaps the tabloid editors when they heard about the proposals of the Progress Party for a rental arrangement for art and cultural objects. I guess no one believes that the 'Brudferden i Hardanger' is being rented out to private people. But hopefully great art gets the dust brushed off and hanged up in private receptions, institutions and homes. It's with great joy I'm standing here today. In fact, I am a little proud also to follow the fact that the Storting will unanimously join the proposal of the Progress Party on a system for the rental of art and cultural items. That means that our cultural policy is actually also taken seriously. The proposal for the rental of art and cultural objects is an attempt to hit several flies in one taste. The public collections have a great deal of art that lies in magazines. It costs money, but no one benefits. With a rental scheme, more people will be able to enjoy the art that is not shown, collections can receive income, and storage capacity can be better used. The exciting thing here is that people can enjoy art that is otherwise not available. It must be a pleasure for everyone. The rental scheme may not be so important in isolation, but it is an example of measures that can give more pleasure to art and at the same time increase the income of collections. The fact that the whole culture committee of the Storting is in favour of the scheme sees the Progress Party as a signal. Hopefully, that also means that other parties see that cultural life needs to be informed about the commercial opportunities that lie there right under our nose. In parts of cultural life, it has been taboo for a long time to think commercially. It may not be so strange, when we know that many art and cultural institutions have to focus their activities not on the audience, but on public budgets. Today's decision is perhaps a small step on the way to a cultural sector that is more targeting the public. Perhaps today's decision is also a signal that the Stortinget sees the need for a more public-oriented cultural sector. Fortunately, there are fires that work with a stronger relationship between culture and business. Hopefully, the Storting may also facilitate public cultural institutions and publicly supported cultural life to focus their activities more on business and the public. The Progress Party believes that commercial exploitation of art and culture can bring more joy to people, and it also has positive budgetary implications. Perhaps the tabloid editors who thought of headlines about Tideman and Gode, one day in the future, rent good art into their editorial facilities. Not everyone is as privileged as us here on the Lion's Hill, to whom the public collections like to lend great art.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e593	It's almost touching to hear the representative Woldseth move to make cultural taxes more accessible to people. It's truly a wish and a call we should all share, and we also share. However, when I take the floor, it is linked to my fear that something could happen that the representative Woldseth in the previous debate underlined should not happen, namely that we got the wrong focus. Let me first say that we're a hundred percent in agreement that it's important that what's hidden in the museums' magazines and different premises is made available. I myself have been involved in these migrations and seen the enormously valuable cultural objects lying there. We should all want them to be more accessible to everyone. I also think it requires a lot of creativity for those who work in the museum sector to be able to make these even more accessible to most people. Now we've also been stressed, and it's true that loans and, to some extent, rents are already going on. But we also know – and it has been underlined by the letters we have received from the Department – that such loans and such rentals have consequences. It's expensive, it can be risky, and it also creates some problems with copyright issues. Now it's also the case that today's museums have huge challenges. They're facing bigger challenges than they have resources. That's probably what's my main point, and also the reason I take the word for this matter, that the search light doesn't remain focused on what's now addressed in this matter, but is directed towards what's really the challenges of the museums in the time to come. I would also like to draw attention to something that is stated in the letter that came from ABM development to the committee, which has been included as attachment 2 in the setting. I want to quote from there. It is about modern information technology and what it can be used for, not least in the context that this proposal addresses. It says: ‘But with modern information technology, shared use and access to museum collections will be significantly easier than before. In several cases, it may therefore be more important that museums focus on open access to ‘magazine’ material through electronic knowledge banks, rather than moving large collections between different magazines.’ So far the letter from ABM development. This, I think, is important to involve myself in this discussion and remembering the possibilities ahead. Therefore, the search light must focus on how the museums of the future can exploit their potential. We've just discussed the cultural school bag. In this context, too, museums are key institutions for the dissemination of cultural heritage to new generations. This is about the use of resources. In this context, resources must now be devoted to continuing the museum reform that is part of the whole of the ABM reform, both to making the museums more accessible and to making the collections more attractive, so that they can also become more effective in managing this cultural heritage. There I think the focus should be: to make these even better knowledge and experience bases for the audience, for most people, for the young people and not least those who are now going to get involved in this through the cultural school bag. In addition to documentation and preservation, the keywords are increased availability and facilitated dissemination. What the Storting and the Ministry must therefore concentrate on now is to continue the ABM reform and ensure that it gets the financial resources it needs in the years to come, to really become what it was going to be. And then we also have to make sure that the proposal of the Progress Party is respected in the best way in the light of that intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e613	The working party is nice to distribute roses. We've seen that a lot, but it's rare that we're witnessing that they're really taking the whole garden, like this time. I guess that might illustrate that there's a broad consensus here, essentially what's about accessibility for people. I agree with the post that the representative Lånke had, and underline his points as to where the focus must be. It's accessibility and the museum's challenges compared to what's central. With regard to the possibilities of this representing large revenues for the museums, all experience tells us that we should have very sober expectations. This should therefore not be an important point in future budget debates or discussions on how to finance the museums. ABM development has done a good job when they have addressed these issues. They have pointed to a number of important issues that need to be taken into account in relation to safety, care and protection of the great values we are talking about. Here the needs will be different from museum to museum. It's the right starting point that we stress what must be the principle approaches, rather than starting to develop general models or formal guidelines on how to do this. The Ministry is urged to stress the importance of accessibility, that our institutions should open up and have an active relationship with their environment. So each institution gets to figure out how best to do this for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e626	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2 [[See page 751]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e642	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given to the main speakers from each group, and five replies to comments from members of the Government, within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e651	The configuration is in large three-part form. It is the government parties, which join the government's description and conclusions, that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have their own comments, and finally the Progress Party, which has a series of proposals covering most of the educational policy area. The various fractions will justify and explain their comments and suggestions themselves. It is a majority for one proposal. A majority refers to the development of secondary education in the coming years. Several county municipalities will have a strong growth in the student population in the next two to three years, a growth of up to 30 pst. in some counties. The majority ask the Government to assess whether the income system, as it is today, captures this growth in a good enough way. We ask the Government to come back to the revised national budget after carrying out an assessment. We do not see that there will automatically be changes in the income system, but that at least we are looking at the possibility of supporting county councils that are in the situation that they are getting an extra strong growth in the number of students. If one looks at the period 1997–2002, the figures suggest that the resource situation has remained largely stable. We believe that we can see a tendency that from the last few years — and we also assume for 2003, if we had the figures — there has been a decline in the resource situation. This particularly affects the split hour, the number of hours that schools have at their disposal to form smaller groups to provide help to individual students, special classes, etc. They're starting to get hit in a way that we haven't seen before, and that worries us. But I also want to give praise to the municipalities. The municipalities have so far protected the school sector and the education sector. When we look at developments in a time of decline in the access to resources for municipalities, everything suggests that they have tried to screen the school, and they should be commended for that. The image this message is drawing needs to be supplemented by other images. We have the evaluation of Apprenticeship 97. It showed that we did not succeed with perhaps the most important thing, namely organized training, providing a training offer adapted to the individual student. It is clear that a situation of small resources, with limited opportunities to share the group and classes, will affect the possibility for the school to facilitate individualised training. The picture has to be supplemented by the international comparative studies, which show that Norwegian students do it on average in most subjects. In some areas, we're on top, but otherwise we're on average. It also needs to be supplemented by the picture that parents and press groups draw of the school today. Sometimes you get a feeling they're drawing a picture of a school in decline. They're drawing a picture of the poor building mass. They're drawing a picture that there's a problem with teaching materials, and they're drawing a picture where the students don't get the training they should have. We've seen the consequences of this, with strikes, with actions, etc. So the picture that the message is drawing has to be supplemented by the other images that we're also getting sent. We in SV believe that there is a need to introduce minimum economic standards for the school. We have great confidence in the municipalities. But as long as we in Stortinget adopt the frameworks, set the learning goals, etc., we believe that we also need to be able to say a little bit about what kind of financial resources are needed in order for schools to achieve these goals, that is, that we need to incorporate minimum standards. We propose that it be a norm. We have our own proposal that there should be a standard for minimum standards, which includes different variables. We regret that we do not get a majority in favour of this. We've moved from legalizing minimum standards to now having an indicative norm. Nor do we receive support for that, and I regret that. I think that actually would have been important. We're also saying something about adults' rights. We ask the Ministry to look at how the county councils and municipalities are able to fulfil the rights of adults to primary and secondary education. It is important that the ministry follows up, and that they come back to us with information on how they assess that situation. I refer to SV's minority proposals, which are included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e670	The representative Rolf Rikvam has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e675	Yes, it is correct, as the representative of Rikvam says, that the municipalities have tried to protect the school in a difficult financial situation. But we've all already received a message of concern from parents saying that, in a depressed financial budgetary situation, advisers are trying to increase the class number, among other things. in upper secondary education, more than 30 students per year. class. SV was involved in removing the class division rule. The working party was opposed to removing it, precisely because we feared that it could be about a saving measure, that it could be used in such a way that it actually weakened the school instead of making it better. My question to SV and the representative Rikvam will be as follows: Does Reikvam believe that removing the class division will be involved and improve the quality of the school? And does SV still feel confident that removing the classification rule will give us a better school, when we see what the municipalities' economy is like?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e684	I can answer an unconditional yes to that. I am absolutely convinced that greater local freedom, greater freedom for each school to organize the learning work, to organize the class and to organize the groups will improve the teaching. It'll improve the training. I'm absolutely convinced of this, and we have to take it inwards. We need to think again about how we organize the learning work. The old, traditional way of thinking about class – with 30 students, etc. – is an old dissemination pedagogy that is not good enough today. Modifying and breaking down the class divisions, or removing the class divisions, is precisely to stimulate thinking in other ways, organizing the learning work in groups, in classes/individuals, self-employment, etc. That's why it was important. We got at the same time that this removal could not be used for a savings measure, but that the municipalities should finance the schools as if the class division were still there. I am absolutely convinced that this was right. That was wise, and it was forward-looking.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e693	The Socialist Left Party appears to be a very concerned party. According to the comments they themselves have written, they are deeply concerned about the school structure. They are very concerned about the financial autonomy of the municipality, and they will express great concern about increasing unemployment among teachers. There is now no clear link between the economy and school construction or between the economy and school results. Is not SV concerned that up to 20 pst. of our students leaving primary school without being able to read and write? And what action, if any, will SV take to improve that situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e700	Obviously, we're worried about that up to 20 pst. of those leaving primary school, they have such poor reading skills that they have problems acquiring a normal, ordinary text. The reading skills of the 20 pst. They vary a little, but they belong to the two lowest levels, which makes them have problems acquiring a text, even though they can read. Clearly, we are concerned about this. Our answers are two-part. We have said over and over again: our only answer is greater local freedom. We're serious about the challenge that L97's evaluation has given us, that we didn't succeed in personalised training. The answer lies in following up the curriculum, getting a school based on individual life and helping individual life and building learning around individual life, not around a class. That's our first answer. The second answer is that we have to spend more money. We have to invest more financial resources in school if we're going to get this done. It also shows the big message, and I also read it out of the evaluation report, and not least the presentation by the Sögnen Committee and the proposals that lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e707	To the representative from SV, it might be tempting to take a line on this one-dimensional scream for more money, but I'm going to move on to another topic, namely local freedom of action, which the representative from SV was in. Does it include, for SV, a pay debate for teachers over whom the owners have control? Why not, if the answer is no? Does it include schemes to look at the hours of work of teachers, so that we get more use of the resources of the employee's teaching staff, by spending more of their time at school with the students? If the answer is no, why not?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e712	In the election campaign it was SV who tried to raise a debate on the content of the school. We didn't quite succeed, but we tried. We didn't talk about heads and ears, we talked about the contents of school. We were actually the only party that tried to raise a debate about organization, structure, hours and all of this – a very wide area, and then we partially bombed because we couldn't get that dialogue going. The fact that we're unilaterally occupied with money is really mildly hesitated. We're trying to get a debate on school content, and we want a debate on resource use. So much about it. So for pay negotiations. We have registered that the State Council has transferred the right to negotiate to the county municipalities. We have taken note of this, and we hope that they will succeed in the negotiations they are now facing. When it comes to working hours, I've just tried to draw a picture of a school where we have to think again in the way of working, in the way of organizing. That also means that reading and all that is related to a particular way of organizing, we have to make changes in. It's a natural consequence of our way of thinking about learning and organizing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e721	On the other hand, the President would like to point out that the word ‘deaf’ is hardly a parliamentary practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e725	Today's theme relates to one of the core issues of school policy: Is there enough resources to achieve the education policy objectives of L97? Primary school is a municipal responsibility and therefore resource use must be seen in the context of the general local economy. The Labour Party believes that financial resources are of great importance to the quality of school. The evaluation of Reform 97 shows that primary school is doing very well, but there are considerable differences between schools, municipalities, classes and between teachers. Not least, the evaluation shows that the school is generally well reported by students, teachers and parents. In other words, although there are major challenges, we have come a long way in Norway in terms of education and, in particular, in terms of rights attaching to higher education. I am pleased that the Minister of Education has abandoned his earlier thesis that there is no shortage of money that is the problem of quality in school. The right is a party that has been saying for years that lack of money is not the problem. I am also pleased that the Government specifies that it is important to ensure sufficient economic freedom for municipalities to achieve the educational policy objectives. The message being processed today shows us that there is a wide variation in the use of resources between different municipalities. At the same time, I find it strange that the Government believes that the development of the resource situation suggests that the primary school after the introduction of Reform 97 has good opportunities to provide all pupils with appropriate training – this is because the five-year evaluation of Reform 97 says the opposite. It says that the school doesn't have the power to provide everyone with customized training. In addition, I would add that I agree that it is important to keep an eye on how the resources in school are used. But I very much disagree that there is a direct link between resource use and quality. The school shall be arranged to include all. This costs. It costs money. The keyword here is scattered settlement and small schools. I would like to remind you that the training should provide both knowledge and equip the individual for a meaningful life as an individual and a citizen of society. This will give training a broader objective than providing students with skills and knowledge. We know that the free revenues of municipalities have been reduced. I think that there is clearly a link between the resources that you put in, and the opportunities that municipalities have to provide a good training offer. The Quality Committee also concludes that improvements to current initial training require a minimum of resources to be maintained at least at the current level. The reduction of municipalities is therefore of a worrying nature. At the same time, there is clearly a large difference between the government parties and the Workers' Party in their view of how public resources should be used. According to the Government, the public school needs to compete with private schools, cf. the amendment of the Private School Act and the establishment of private schools with public support has become easier. It is also quite worrying that there is a reduction in the number of sharing hours, as these are hours that allow the students to adapt and vary their teaching. The situation of minority students is also alarming, where they are left with little knowledge of what the teacher has undergone in the class. One can therefore ask if students with a migrant background become the losers in the Norwegian school system. Berit Solding, who is a researcher at NIFU, has written a report that shows that there is no clear yes or no answer to this question, but we need it for observation. In addition, it turns out that fewer and fewer students are receiving special education — fewer and fewer students are receiving special education today. That teaching is important for students with difficulty in reading and writing. About 5.5 pst. This was taught in the school year 2002-2003. There seems to be a wide variation in the use of municipalities between them. It is essentially a matter of costing more to catch all the students than to catch up with the few. In addition, there are challenges to school construction in poor constitution, the absence of camp school facilities, or free camp school facilities, and the increased use of unskilled workers in school. The desire to maintain a decentralised school structure is widely politically anchored. It is noted that the number of small schools has fallen and that the number of schools with many students has increased. Small schools are important for local policy and pedagogical reasons. They also have a key role to play in whether smaller sites can experience themselves as viable communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e746	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e749	The article we heard from representative Nielsen of the Workers' Party was actually a long talk about what the Workers' Party was against. Like SV, they were very worried and afraid a lot, and I really felt that they saw ghosts by the daylight day. The question I would like to ask when you draw some conclusions that I think are not right is that you talk about customised training and blame the economy. The Committee has been briefed, including: on the experience gained from the differentiated training project, that there may be as much competence and organisation as the problem is. I also record that the Workers' Party is not talking about quality. They're not talking about learning outcomes. They're talking about school construction, camp school and school structure. The question I want to ask to the Workers' Party is: What is the Workers' Party's solution for the future school, except that you just want to buy out the problem by granting more money?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e756	First, I'd like to tell the representative Robertsen that I'm not afraid of darkness. I've never seen a ghost. When it comes to how the Workers' Party wants to solve the future school without just putting in a call for money, I would say: We in the Workers' Party are convinced that there is a link between resources and the quality you get in school. There is a connection between the economy and the student experience as a good, high-quality school, which makes them meaningful in training. I think it's obvious. We could take an example as special education. I don't think anyone in this room is imagining that the offer of special education is not dependent on having resources. So when the Right claims that the quality of school is independent of the economy, the Right is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e763	When we discuss the resource situation, it's important that we not only look at how the money comes and how much money comes, but also at how we spend the money to ensure a high-quality yield. I'll come back to that in my main post. The point of the Progress Party is, among other things, to release parents in order to be sure to obtain a good quality learning result for the pupils. I have seen that the Workers' Party is involved. The Workers' Party's programme on page 32 reads: ‘The working party will provide appropriate tools to examine the quality of school and education at all levels.’ And then it comes: «At the same time, we must enable students, parents and teachers to participate in the work on the assessment and quality development of school and education.» How will the Workers' Party get rid of their parents? Apart from the use of the word ‘parents’ on page 32, it is difficult to understand the concern and mention of the parent role and parental influence in the school at the Workers’ Party. But maybe I can get answers this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e780	I'm a little surprised at the angle of the question from the Progress Party. There are certainly no parties other than the Progress Party who have tried to make a school revolution in parental schools. The Labour Party believes that the tools available in today’s school are well on the way to maintaining good cooperation between parents and school. We have cooperation committees. They work very well. And there have been many good projects in the field of parental, school and community cooperation in recent years. What is important to include when addressing the cooperation problem is that Norway is almost the world champion of student democracy. Student democracy is also an important part of cooperation between homes, schools and teachers. So it's not right as it's said here, that the Workers' Party is not concerned with the parents, but we think that the arrangement we have, is fully satisfactory as it works today – not at all points, but in many areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e785	The working party has made it a battle cause this summer and in the autumn to attack us in SV because we agreed to remove the class division number. I want to challenge the Workers' Party a little. I've told you before why we agreed to this. The class breakdown has no economic justification today. There are no municipalities that feed the school so little money that it affects the class division number. So it has no economic significance. It would be terrible if a municipality gave the school so little money that the class division was run by it. These are completely different mechanisms. Our rationale was pedagogical — diversity, new ways of thinking about learning, new ways of thinking about organisation. It would have been a little bit interesting once to get the Workers' Party to join and discuss exactly these things, which go the way of organizing, the way of creating the learning environment. What does the Labour Party really think about these questions in the future? What are the main challenges we face in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e792	I want to start by referring to SV's comments in this case, where SV points out that the number of students in the classes is increasing. I believe that it is well on the way to show that there is an uncertainty in the SV that the decisions you made when you agreed to the class division rule might not have been well enough considered. I believe that the representative of Rikvam will have a good opportunity to discuss the content of the school, the quality, the progress, what will make the Norwegian school the best in the world, when we deal with the Sögnen committee's position. The quality committee setting has a lot of good political input that we're going to spend a lot of time in this room. And then I would like to say in the end that I think that both the Swedish Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party have had many good debates in this room that go on the contents of the school, which goes on the visions for the school. But you have to keep up with the class, you have to bring everything with you.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e801	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e804	The present big message that we are now discussing is a concrete result of the budgetary agreement concluded by the Government Parties and the Progress Party in the autumn of 2002. The notification was submitted by the Ministry as early as May of this year, but is only now dealt with in the Stortinget. Thus, it is just before the Ministry starts working on next year's notification, which will necessarily contain much more up-to-date and up-to-date information and data bases in relation to the actual situation of the day. Although in many ways there are historical data we are discussing, I think it is very nice to be able to note, with the background to the notification's documentation, that the municipalities generally prioritise school and education very high. The use of resources in primary schools is characterised by high efforts, in fact far beyond the previously known minimum level. In addition, the use of resources shows considerable stability, nor can it be shown that there have been major differences between municipalities – this during a period when the real income growth of municipalities has largely come in the form of earmarked grants. Despite the continued reform of the municipalities, partly financed by earmarked grants, the municipalities have nevertheless given priority to school and education. I think there's a lot of respect for this. This shows that the school is also central to municipal politics, and it shows that the municipalities take their responsibility as school owners very seriously. At the same time, it is important to note that, in the future, municipalities will be able to maintain an equally high priority for school and education, municipalities will also depend on developments in which the free revenues of municipalities are not increasingly pressured by state regulations, designations and regulations. This has been clearly demonstrated in the Communication, but has also been underlined by the consultations carried out by the Committee. I hope that the parties at Stortinget who have almost developed their own policy in relation to the designation and centralisation of the tasks and spaces of the municipalities have noticed this in particular. If we are to be able to further strengthen and develop local self-government, as government parties stand at the heart of it, it is important to continue the principles of framework funding. The Storing Communication demonstrates that this also leads to a high priority for the use of resources in schools. Similarly, it is important not to impose too many national standards and standards. It reduces the local space for action, while at the same time such standards and minimum standards can take away the focus from how to improve school quality. Both considerations indicate that new key standards or standards should not be introduced. The Communication discusses the relationship between school quality development and resource use, but without drawing conclusions other than that it has so far not been possible to demonstrate a clear link between resources and results. Financial resources are a necessary, but not a sufficient, condition for creating a good school. But of course, it is not possible to draw the opposite conclusion that the school would be better with less resources. There are probably concrete examples of the need for more resources and, on the other hand, of areas where a person can unquestionably make changes in terms of less resource use without compromising the quality of the school. This is also emphasised by recent research, where several studies show that resources alone will not solve the challenges of today’s school. A one-sided focus on the resource side, particularly the Socialist Left Party, but also the Progress Party and the Workers' Party are often exponents for, can therefore easily remove focus from the main school challenges related to the learning environment and learning outcomes. In the right we are concerned with results and quality in school. Several national and international comparable studies show that Norwegian school students only score mediocrely, despite being very high in relation to resource inputs per year. students measured in crowns and in terms of the number of students per. teacher at school. Since neither the current big message, which deals with the resource situation of basic education, nor current research documents that more financial resources in the form of higher appropriations or more liberal budgets will necessarily lead to better results or better quality of education and learning environment, I find little reason to address all the school policy challenges and issues that could be discussed in this context. It provides the Storting with a significantly better basis for discussion, opinions and direction of governance for the upcoming treatment of the quality committee’s setting and the large-scale notification notified in this context. The quality committee addresses a number of the school policy challenges facing our basic education in a completely different and thorough way from what has been meant by this review of the resource situation. This concerns both the concerns of the Left Party and the various programme proposals of the Progress Party, which will then be given ample opportunity to come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e825	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e829	In this case, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have a common comment to support the hearing opinions of FUG, the Parent's Committee for Primary School, the fight for resources for school, the fight for parents' offers, in particular for those who need organized offers. I would ask the representative from the Right to answer why the Right cannot support that remark, why they cannot support the description of reality that the FUG provides. Does the Right think that parents are wrong, or is it that the Right Government Party has defined a different school reality than the one that parents experience?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e836	No, I think very strongly that parental statements express the experienced situation there and then by the parent. But when we're going to discuss school policy and premise for the future quality development in school, and not least for how we want our children to get the best possible education in this society, so that we're competitive nationally and internationally, it's not enough to listen to each parent representative or individual parent organisation. We also need the ability and willingness to focus on the objective results shown by both national research and the international comparable studies, which we have now received on the table, and which well document the state of the school. This does not mean that we should not at the same time have the ability and the willingness to listen to individual representatives, single parents and individual citizens – but not just that. There must be a sum of the impressions and experiences we get when we're going to preface school policy. This is also the basis for the school policy that the Right wants to work on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e845	It is possible that I heard errors, but it actually seemed as if the representative Voie thought that the Progress Party too was – at least sometimes – one-sidedly focused on resource access. It must be either because of a misunderstanding or because you have not read your day’s syllabus. Then to the line. What is important is, among other things: to make sure that the money comes out. We read that there is varying resource use across the country. The situation for students depends very much on the municipality in which the student lives, on how the municipality's economy is, and on how the municipality's politicians prioritise. We're dedicated to directing the money towards the students as far as we can. That's what we thought the Right was, too. Right will fund the school by making the money more follow the student. What degree do you think of? Can you define this degree? The background for asking this question in a reply is the conclusion of the Ministry’s communication, directed by a Council of the Right-wing States, namely that it will not be possible to do anything about the primary school funding scheme, but that it has sought to assess the funding scheme for secondary schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e857	From the Right, we believe – as opposed to the Advancement Party – that it is fully possible to combine the two considerations, both to place greater emphasis on the follow-up to the student, and on municipal freedom of action and local autonomy. Let's do that, for example. through the transmission system we have to the municipalities, where we place the greatest emphasis on demographic developments in the population of each municipality. This will also be reflected in the specific transfer and in the prioritisation of the municipalities. But then we're also willing to give the municipalities the opportunity to compete for the best school. It is a competitive factor for each municipality, which will also help to stimulate the housing, growth and development of the communities that will use the school in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e864	Now Søren Fredrik Voie has used both his post and a line to tell me that we are very concerned – we in SV are obviously full of concern. It's possible that we've been easy to worry, but in at least one area, the Right and SV have a common concern. That's what goes on in quality, on what we're going to find out in this area. At least there is a common concern. We in SV try to deal with this when we worry, and do something about it. So now I expect the Right do the same thing. So to something that Søren Fredrik Voie said, that it must now end standards, standards and requirements – I would assume that it was also SV. I expect that in the future we will also create curricula, where we set requirements for learning objectives, etc. We need standards, we need to evaluate and evaluate, and we need to ensure quality. All of this I'm assuming is that the Right will be on. So it rises up one question. When we can do this, shouldn't we also be able to say something about what kind of financial resources are needed at each school in order to achieve these curriculum objectives and all the other goals that we're trying to set? What's wrong with that? When we are able to set other goals and plans, why should we not also have resource effort targets – or require resource effort?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e873	There are several reasons why there is no good policy, for which SV now makes itself a spokesman. One is the municipal freedom of action that I've been in for. But a perhaps more concrete and important argument about not wanting a minimum standard is that it could result in schools not getting the resources they would otherwise have. The documentation contained in the Storing Communication shows that municipalities use and allocate money – financial resources – far beyond the minimum standard we have today. We are afraid that such national standards will be nothing but a minimum standard. Some people do not have the opportunity to reach out to create the good school they would otherwise have had by being able to dispose of their own resources and by being able to prioritise far beyond the minimum standard that SV wants. There are at least some of the reasons that make us think it is a bad case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e878	The cord change is therefore changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e881	The Progress Party is pleased that the Communication has been made – on a proposal from the Progress Party several times in the Storting but rejected until the budgetary agreement between the Advance Party and the Government Parties last year. We are also pleased that what was first rejected by the other parties has now become so interesting that the Government will provide the Stortinget with an annual report, an annual update of quality development in relation to resource availability. However, the Progress Party will point out that there is a lack of mention, assessment and conclusions in relation to some important issues related to mission and title, where the concept used is, in other words, the ‘resource situation’. In the opinion of the Progress Party, this is more than the funding system, expenditure, student numbers and hours. The Progress Party has therefore, in its comments, mentioned important issues that are not included in the Communication, and we are promoting a number of proposals related to this. I am addressing the proposals from the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen mentioned in the vote. A statement of the resource situation must, in the opinion of the Progress Party, inter alia. mention the following: Parental influence. Good user involvement improves resource use and resource management. Resource use relative to subject. I'll get back to this with two parallel writing languages. Supervision — Who Should Oversight? State, which for many years has accepted obstinacy as a system failure, or National Educational Quality Body, NOCUT? Who shall check what is pedagogical and safety sound, cf. the adjustments in Section 8-2 of the Training Act? Teacher training, which, after Stortingen’s treatment a year ago, remains one of the few training courses in Norway with a shorter duration than the main model of five years. Primary school length. Are we going to have ten-year-olds or, as the Progress Party suggests, nine-year-old elementary school? Also in this message we find reference to the quality committee's setting and the future treatment of it in the Stortinget. The Progress Party will again point out that this position should not be a kind of political rug to be put over all school policy debates and all other matters. In the Progress Party, we have taken note of the Ministry’s conclusion that there is no clear link between the effort of resources – where most people believe money – and results. Norway spends a lot of money on education and has many teachers. A good piece on the road is probably this is the right picture, even though the results prove to be mediocre. But for pupils and parents who are daily referred to school buildings where regulations on the working environment for pupils are broken, where equipment is missing or too old to provide quality education, where temporary workers are not inserted when teachers are gone, it is obvious that money is actually missing and that more money is important. This is why the Progress Party will change the funding system. The progress party will have a price. The unit price means that the state pays school money for the individual student, and that the money follows the student up to the school where the student has chosen to be a student. Such a system is known in the education sector. Not least have former private schools, now renamed independent schools, long lived with such a funding system. But things other than money are also important. The management of the resources actually provided to the school is important. The progress party will involve the parents in that management. The Progress Party believes that parental influence is important. We want operating directors – independent operating boards where parents are not only represented but have a majority. The party to the progress will also give parents, in accordance with the Danish model, supervisory responsibility adapted and coordinated by other supervisory authorities. In the management of resources we also have to look critically at the professional content. The use of a lot of time and money – i.e. resources – related to examination requirements in written side cases is the Progress Party against. We believe that this is the wrong resource usage. The Progress Party proposes that mandatory training in written cross-cutting cases be deleted. Many other countries do better than Norway, with basic training of less than 10 years. The Progress Party proposes nine years. In the one tenth of the year there is a large resource of approx. 3.5 billion kroner, which can and, in our opinion, should be released to raise the quality of a nine-year run. There is a need for a change in the Norwegian school system to ensure that the money is made available to students, to ensure that resources are better used and to trigger additional resources. The Progress Party proposes again important system changes in Norwegian school. We note with regret that the other parties either reject our system changes or cover themselves behind the Quality Committee's setting. The Progress Party has an alternative school policy based on an alternative resource use and resource management. Our solution is the alternative school path. We're not going to give up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e931	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e936	First, I would like to say that I find the representative of Sortevik's mention of Norwegian schoolchildren a little courteous. When he can say that the results are mediocre, there's something about cutting everyone over a comb. I don't think that was a good expression. In this case, the Progress Party promotes a proposal to reduce the length of primary school from ten to nine years, as explained by the representative. There has been a great debate on this in the past. But from the Labour Party we think that we have come on the right track when we are now running a ten-year run. My questions to the representative Sortevik will then be: When you are going to push the length of primary school down to nine years, are you going to have the same syllabus as today? Which subjects, if any, should be removed? What subjects should be changed? Will you be able to meet the goal of diversity in school, cf. the debate earlier today on the cultural school bag?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e945	It is not the students we in the Progress Party characterize as mediocre, it is the learning outcomes in the Norwegian school. Organized as it has been until now, we get mediocre learning outcomes. And I guess we're not alone in using that characteristic. We are European masters – not to say among the world’s leaders – in resource use for schools, but we have results that claim to be good in the mediocre group. And we're sorry about that. We will reduce from ten to nine years. We're busy with many things that I didn't get to get into my measured five minutes. We're busy spending the time we have available on every single school day, in a better way, and we're busy spending more of our time on the basics. In a parallel exchange with SV, we were in the working hours of the teachers. We are committed to making better use of our teachers' skills within the framework for which it has already been paid, and this should ensure that we get a better schooling day.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e955	The attitude is in many ways interesting reading, for there you can read the entire school policy programme of the Advancement Party, among other things. in the case of resource allocation and funding system. The representative of Sortevik has in a few lines, among other things: have been engaged in local wage negotiations and local freedom of action, and this is important. In other areas, however, local freedom for the Progress Party is clearly a bad thing. In the setting on page 8, the Progress Party, in discussing today’s funding system, writes that ‘the expression ‘local democracy’ and ‘local freedom of action’ is again used as a justification for maintaining the current primary school funding system’, and further: ‘These members point out that the consideration of users — represented by parents and pupils — seems totally uninteresting to the Ministry.’ Is there this emphasis on local freedom of action that makes the Progress Party seem to believe that the Department is totally uninterested in the interests of users? Is there any other thing, or is this just a vision without any real facts?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e967	We in the Progress Party do not in any way hide that we are out to go on users' errands. We're going up users' interests, we're feeling and we're definitely thinking. We feel that when you are involved in defending an existing system, both from a political, government and departmental point of view, you are more system-defence than you are a user-defence. You go more to the business of the system, management and administration than to the business of the users. And the user group in school context is two-fold. It is, therefore, that the vast majority of students are under 18 years of age, that is, parents have active parental responsibility related to schooling, and it is also the case that parents must have an active user role, active participation, active participation in school. We miss that in a perspective where you are more concerned with making sure that local politicians have money and tasks to care for, than that the school is going to be good for those who are going to school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e972	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e975	With St.meld. No 33 The Government has followed up a request from the Storting for a statement on the resource situation in initial training. The main theme of the communication is the relationship between the quality development of the school and the resource situation. The government has taken up more recent school research, and from this it is that one cannot demonstrate a clear link between resources and results. The Christian People's Party agrees that we need more knowledge of what is needed to increase resources to give a similar positive impact on school performance. The use of resources in primary schools is today characterised by considerable stability. The municipalities have given priority to school. As we see it, financial resources are of course necessary, but not a condition that alone creates a good school. We can find cases where more resources will produce better results, and cases where resource use can be reduced without prejudice to results. Norway is at a high level compared to most other countries. With the level of resources we have in Norwegian school today, it is crucial how we use the resources. Unfortunately, it seems that we haven't gotten as much out of it as other countries. I don't think we can have a one-sided focus on resources over the learning environment and learning outcomes, but that this has to be seen in context. I want to make it clear here that high teacher density in school is absolutely necessary for quality. I would like to mention that School Package 2 today contributes to a reduction in the number of teachers, and it was an agreement that was also included in the Education Association. However, unskilled workers cannot replace the need for qualified staff. An overall committee stresses that teachers are the school’s most important resource. The teacher’s importance for good results is indisputable, and it is pointed out in the communication that of all the resource factors in the school, teacher competence is the factor that affects students’ performance the most. The quality of teachers is therefore crucial. The evaluation of Reform 97 points out that the lack of adapted training is a serious cause for the differences among students. The school has a high potential for organising its training in a way that is more adapted to the individual student. This is a major educational challenge and a responsibility also for school management and school owner. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important in this process to develop a broad political understanding of the funding system for the school. The Christian People's Party wishes to continue to finance the school through the framework funding system and by increasing the free resources of the municipalities. Local self-government is essential to involve the local community in getting to a good school. We recognise that the economy of county councils is tight, among other things. because of economic conditions resulting from changes in tasks between the State and the county. Now that the hospital sector has been transferred to the State, secondary education is the dominant activity in the county. When higher education will increase in the coming years as a result of increased youth unemployment, it is important to have an income system that captures such fluctuations. The government has appointed a sample to assess the transmission system of the local government sector. Cross-border schools are of great importance to a living community. They help to maintain and further develop local traditions. It is the municipalities that have local political responsibility in relation to the school structure. In determining the school structure, it is important that individual municipalities take into account both educational considerations and local development considerations. Environmental education often has a function in addition to being a place of study: it is also a place of assembly and meeting in different social contexts. It is important, then, to have a thorough process ahead of the decision that both parents and students are involved in. In relation to teacher recruitment, we will come back to this in more detail during the processing of the Quality Committee's settings. Measures to develop the skills of teachers will also be explored. An evaluation of Reform 97 shows that the development of teachers’ skills is the key prerequisite for achieving the goal of adapted training for students. Through Input. O. No 126 for 2002-2003 it was decided that the classification split should be abolished. The concepts of ‘pedagogically sound’ and ‘safe’ were mentioned in this context in relation to the fact that each student should belong to a basic group. This should be further elaborated. It is clear that this is not a saving measure. Therefore, access to the school was also determined as if the class division number were still there, as it has now been.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e996	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e999	I want to go back to the message that the Government has submitted. On page 60 of the message, the government says that ‘there is a need to further identify the causes of poor maintenance of buildings in municipalities, including whether there may be structural reasons for the problems that can be identified’. Furthermore, it says in the same place: ‘It must... be assessed whether there is a need for changes in the current framework of property management in the municipalities.’» It also states that the Government will create a sample to evaluate this. I would like to ask the representative of the Christian People's Party: what are the structural reasons that the Christian People's Party believes that school buildings are being poorly maintained? And what changes does the Christian People's Party see in today's municipal property management of school buildings?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1016	It is true that this issue of school construction is included in the message. This is something that we are now following up, and last Friday a sample was appointed to look into this. I am therefore not prepared to draw a conclusion in advance. The knowledge of creating samples is, of course, that they can come up with suggestions on how this can be done. I will therefore await it, and we will get closer to this particular matter. In the case of school construction, there are now quite a number of billions for the next year, so that municipalities can further develop school buildings. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we have something to do with the conditions of the various school buildings. I also know that very many people already have good construction, and that this of course does not apply to those who have the good indoor climate for the students we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1023	Two things: Christian People's Party is concerned with concepts such as parental mandate, parental rights and performance dependency related to interactions between home and school. Does the Christian People's Party believe that parents can contribute better than today to controlling the resources in school, and what will the Christian People's Party possibly do to redeem such a potential? The second concerns the experimentation of working time arrangements for teachers, which have produced good results for more than three years, and how many interested parties have expressed satisfaction with the results — including teachers themselves. How does the Christian People’s Party feel that we can exploit and continue the potential shown by this extensive experiment? And what will the Christian People's Party do to exploit the opportunities in that field?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1034	It was a lot in 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1037	I don't know if it's the parents or the teachers that it's most important to bring up here. I guess I'm not going to be able to elaborate on this in particular. As far as the representative Sortevik is concerned first, namely the parental right, it is clear that this is very important for the Christian People's Party. That is why we are working with the Progress Party to allow independent schools – precisely on the grounds of parental rights. We fully agree that parents should be involved in school everyday, and this still reminds us of FUG. They've done a great job of developing the FAUs around the schools, so they've become demonstrably even more active, it's said, in school context. I agree that this is something that can redeem a potential by parents getting engaged in school everyday, and that is the Christian People's Party absolutely for. As far as working time arrangements for teachers are concerned, we will continue to look at what is being tried. I also see that we can come back to how we should continue these arrangements for the teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1050	Earlier today, Søren Fredrik Voie said that part of the opposition parties was very concerned. After hearing the speeches by Søren Fredrik Voie and Elsa Scarbøvik, I feel that if there is a word that characterizes the government parties, it is satisfaction. The teacher's density goes down, and the use of assistants goes up. The question to the representative Scarbøvik is as follows: Is the representative Scarbøvik, who is also a teacher, satisfied with a development in which the number of pedagogues goes down and the use of assistants in primary school is increasing?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1058	It is absolutely right that I am very satisfied with much in Norwegian school. I have good reason to say that, which has been there for over 20 years and has my closest family there to daily. It's a lot to be satisfied with. But there are also things to do. And the very thing the representative of the Skjälaa now pointed out, namely the teacher's density, is one thing that I'm not satisfied with -- that there's going to be an increase in the use of assistants at the expense of teachers. I'm ready for increased use of assistants. We need that, among other things. because special education is now being strengthened and because much of the adapted training is related to the use of assistants. But it's not going to cost the teacher's density. Among other things, I mentioned: this with School Package 2, where teachers themselves have pointed out that when they are teaching one more hour a week, this goes beyond the actual teacher's density. Here I agree with the Commissioner that we need to look at this in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1063	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1066	The use of resources has been fairly stable, showing messages from 1997 and up to 2002. It is interesting to see that although the free income of municipalities has fallen, resource use in primary schools has remained somewhat stable. It shows that local politicians around have largely chosen to protect the school from cuttings. At the same time, GSI statistics show that there has been a notable, even significant, decrease in the number of dividing hours from 2001 to 2003, i.e. from 2001–2002 to 2002–2003 school years. This will probably be made clear when we receive the next report on resource use in school. So the development is that there's more students, that's larger, there's fewer schools, that's what I'm saying. That there's going to be bigger schools, and there's going to be larger classes in primary school. In an interpellation debate on cross-border schools here in Stortinget this spring, I referred to the work of Norlandsforschung, as it also says in the position, where one among others. points out that over the period 1997–2002, the number of out-of-age to three-part schools on a national basis was reduced by a total of 36 pst. The school structure costs, and many municipalities have such a tight financial framework that changes in the school structure are often the only way to get the budget into port in many municipalities. At the same time, studies both from our own country and from other OECD countries show that small schools with an ageing age actually have many pedagogical advantages over large and old schools. I think there's reason to be worried, not to say worried, about this development. A decentralised school structure has a good political anchoring. I feel that there is a great deal of consensus about it. The few schools have a pedagogical advantage, with a framework that allows individual students to adapt their training. A school development that is governed mainly for economic reasons does not want the Centre Party. Nor is it in line with national educational policy objectives. We can't talk about the resource situation in school without focusing on the school's most important resource, which is the teacher, the pedagogue. It was thought-provoking when the Committee, through the Minister of Education, heard Peder Haug's review of the L97 evaluation programme. This review showed that there are major challenges to address. Researchers registered unclear and unclear professional requirements. According to the researchers, it seemed as if the teachers were leaning to make explicit demands on the students, especially in the youth. Furthermore, research shows that the concept of customised training is being widened, but at the same time researchers are asking whether there is sufficient knowledge of adapted training. There are no simple answers to these challenges. However, it is obvious that strengthening the continuing training of teachers and stronger participation and involvement from the educational colleges are necessary to develop the school as a learning venue. So it's not just hours that are needed to develop a good school. Resources need to be invested in further education and training of teachers. Increases in student growth during the period combined with decreases in the number of teaching years and an increase in the number of assistant years are not desirable developments, particularly in the light of the major educational challenges facing the school. Unskilled staff can never replace the need for skilled educators. Strengthening well-qualified teachers is, in fact, a prerequisite for the realisation of organised training for individual students. Then I just want to point out that what's in the position of another concern we have, namely for the student growth in high school and the development of the resource area there. I think that's a cause for concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1081	This Communication gives a good picture of the link between the quality development and the resource situation in schools over the period 1997–2002. I note that so far it has not been possible to demonstrate the clear link between resources and results in training. The use of resources in primary and secondary schools must be assessed in the light of the general local and county economy. However, there is a clear trend that municipalities have been good at protecting the school sector this year with the urge of local economy, which gives us great faith in local democracy as a governance unit in the Left. At relatively long speeds in local policy at different levels, I also know that there is a lot of time in local government and the county to discuss school policy. I wish they had spent more time than they do today. Today, local politicians focus a lot on barley, because that's what they have power over, while I really wanted to focus more and a broader debate locally on the content of the school. The structural problems raised in the succession between the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party in the field of construction are quite obvious. Today we have public governance models in the field of construction, which means that managers who take care of their buildings are not particularly well valued. We have systems where the due date starts one day, and you don't get especially appreciated if you care for the maintenance. Here in Oslo, for example, the Labour Party government led to a slowdown in the trillions class of school buildings. After six years, there are now 6 billion dollars in Oslo Schools, which means that Oslo got the best out of the last indoor air measurement. But it shows that there are structural changes that make it possible to hide an ever down-priority of school, without that down-priority coming to the surface before others take over. In the 2004 government budget proposal, there was an increase of DKK 3 billion for municipalities. A budget agreement with the Workers' Party added DKK 2.2 billion. There won't be any protests from the Left. The local economy has been strengthened this autumn more than a year earlier, and of course it will also benefit the school. Schools, education and research have been consistently low priorities for the allocation of large-scale resources. In both teacher, school and material resources, there is a great unmet need in many places. Evaluation shows that 55 pst. of students with a minority background in Oslo are left with little or no knowledge after passing through a class. The problem is mainly due to a lack of Norwegian knowledge. The evaluation also shows that the level of education of parents still plays a major role in the performance of pupils. There's a situation that needs to be taken seriously. School is the main arena for the integration of young people with a minority background. The school must take that responsibility seriously. The left has also been concerned with cross-border schools, and believes that they have a major role to play in maintaining living communities. I am pleased to note that this view is also reflected in the message. The debate on the resource situation at school needs to be more than a debate on financial resources. After all, it's all people in school. Students, teachers, school managers and employees are the school's most important resources, along with parents with dreams, visions and desires for their children. The most important decisions here are to be made when the Quality Committee comes up with its setting. But when we look at so different degrees of learning from resources, it's clear that school management is very important. It's important that we do something about the school losses, and that we don't have a special education system that makes even more losers than we have today. But most of all, it's important to focus on the teachers, because they are the key to good learning. We have to create a system where the concept of customised training makes sense to the individual student.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1112	What we are dealing with today is the first statement in the series of annual presentations on the resource situation in school. I hope this can help to provide us with a knowledge base, including with regard to resources, which provides the basis for informed debate on the school. I also hope that the message can help to nuance the debate on the importance of resources for the quality of learning outcomes and the learning environment. And perhaps with a slight exception for representative Nielsen, I feel absolutely that the debate is nuanced, at least as far as the members of the committee are concerned. Maybe not everyone outside the committee has brought all the shades just as well. In my opinion, it has to be established that there is no linear or unambiguous link between resources and results, whether you are talking about learning outcomes or the learning environment. And as I said in the financial debate yesterday, this is a recognition that extends far beyond Norway. In all countries, rich as poor, it's now a shift of focus, from what we invest in education systems to what we get out. The reason for this is that large and not easily explained differences in quality within education systems and between education systems have been observed. And it's clear that you're curious, you're going to ask yourself some important questions: why is it that someone does it better, even though they use less resources? Why is someone doing it worse, even though they're using more resources? Why are there differences in municipalities with the same school economy? Why is there a difference between classes with the same student base? This does not mean that resources are not important or that there is a linear relationship between quality and less resources. What we're saying is that resources are important. But resource use is also important, and it is probably more important the greater the use of resources. Then it's even more important to reflect on it. The notification shows that there is a high level of resource use in Norway in education, even if we take into account the fact that we have an inclusive principle and a scattered school structure. It also shows that resource use has been relatively stable and has been a high priority for municipalities in Norway, with school politicians and municipal politicians giving high priority to school. The notification also shows that there are considerable differences between municipalities, but most of the differences can be explained in a natural way and to a lesser extent due to political down-priority or prioritisation. But the message also shows that there are some major challenges. Firstly, the message shows a slight — albeit very weak — decrease in teacher density and an increase in adulthood. This has been more worrying, but I can reassure them that recent developments show the opposite trend. Now the proportion of unskilled or unqualified teachers is falling, while the proportion of those who have completed their education is increasing, for now there is access to teachers. The notification also shows a certain decrease in split hours and an increase in special education. These are things that we should follow closely, because it can be worrying. But I don't want to draw bastant conclusions based on threats, advice, media essays and stories you hear. It's important to bring the actual development, because it's not always consistent with what we can get into the media. I have noted a few majority comments and the proposal for a decision. Firstly, I have noticed that the Committee wants to continue the main elements of today's primary school funding system, and I am pleased about that. However, the majority of the Committee also states in a note that they want us to promote any additional provisions relating to the notification of the Quality Committee. I would like to remind you that the Stortinget took a decision to deal with the classification rules, and that this would be the basis for the minimum level of resource allocation, even if they had been removed. I just want to assure the Storting that this is a decision we follow up. Secondly, there is a majority comment on the rights of adults. There we have launched both a survey of the situation and an investigation of alternative financial instruments, which we will also discuss with the KS. And then there's a proposal for a decision here on high school, student development and funding. The government has already informed Stortinget that we are investigating this, and I can confirm that we will return to Stortinget at the latest in connection with the revised national budget. We get back to 2003 when we know more about 2003, but let me just say that I think we are going to get more and more information about resource use and the relationship with quality as we get the national quality assessment system in place. It will be an automatic and continuous check. Let me also mention something that will make it difficult to interpret developments, namely school package II. In this connection, the teachers received a well-deserved salary of approx. five payroll steps, in return for a little more work. This resulted in a potential efficiency gain in Norwegian school of 3,600 year-olds. It's very close, and it can also help to distort the image and its interpretation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1138	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1141	It is true that the Workers' Party is busy with resources. If that's what the representative Schjälaa says, that the teacher is the most important resource in primary school, and we also know that the teacher's density goes down, then there's evidence that there's a connection between resources and outcomes. The message also shows a development with several pupils, fewer schools and larger classes in primary school. We also see a reduction in the number of split hours, which makes it largely impossible to vary the training situation of students. One conclusion regarding the evaluation of Reform 97 is that the school does not have the power to provide all pupils with appropriate training. So my question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State see that there can still be a clear link between resources and results in achieving adapted training for all students – adapted and organised training for all?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1150	Everyone is busy with resources. But I think the representative Nielsen is now the last and only person to take part in this debate, who believes that there is such a clear and linear relationship between resource use and results as she expresses. What we're saying is that there's also a question of how to use the resources. Teachers are important, and teacher density is very important, but it is also important what kind of learning work you do and what kind of competence your teachers have. I think you have a very important area, which has been mentioned here in the debate, when you talk about the rules of class sharing, working time agreement, professional and hourly distribution, etc. This means pushing the school into a rather rigid organization, which makes it very difficult to get to a adapted and differentiated training and get the school to become a learning organisation. It is going to be an important topic in the context of the communication to spring, and I feel that everyone is now quite interested in it, perhaps with a small exception for the representative Nielsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1157	In fact, I agree with the Council of State that we have had a good pedagogical outcome with this communication, which originates in the Progress Party, and that we have gained a better pedagogical understanding of the relationship between resources and results. As we continue this, I hope that we will receive it as a message. I also hope that the Department will expand its resource definition so that we can continue to develop the educational understanding. I would also like to point out that school construction is quite voiced in the message. Half a column on page 13 is small, the problem taken into account. Well, this sample is now reduced, but I would like to remind you that we also have a decision taken by the government parties and the Progress Party related to the processing of the census, that we will be given a detailed explanation of the maintenance situation of school buildings in 2004. I assume that we get it with a full content, and not with notice that we are waiting for a recently reduced sample.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1166	As for the type of document we are going to provide the annual report, we have announced that, just in the spring of 2004, we intend to see it in the context of the Quality Committee's announcement. I think that would also be appropriate for the consideration of the Committee. Then, as long as I sit in this chair, I will make an annual statement. But since I must be prepared that I am not sitting there on a beautiful day, my descendants and future big things will decide on it. But I think, as I said, that in the long term, the national quality assessment system may become a form of ongoing presentation of the resource situation and its context with results. In the case of school construction, a sample was set up on Friday, as the representative Scarbøvik mentioned in his reply. That sample has been asked to give an interim report – on the move I am not quite able to remember the date, but it is relatively soon – which will give us a status in terms of the school construction situation. The background is that many reports are available, but not all equally reliable. Now I hope that this expert committee can give us a solid status report.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1174	We are pleased with what the Council of State says about the ways in which she should follow up on what is in the Committee's position, both in relation to adult and adult rights and in relation to what is in student development. So we're not worried, but we're happy with the way she wants to follow up on this. I also agree with the Council of State that it is important that we have a debate on the content of the school – that we are able to shift attention away from resources and get a debate on the content. But we have to make sure that we can have both debates at the same time. There is a link between the content and the resource situation, it is quite obvious to everyone. How clear and how linear that relationship is, we can then discuss. But at least it's a context, and that's why we need to have the attention to both. My question to the Council of State is: I put a question to Søren Fredrik Voie instead, who went on this with why don't help to create an indicative standard of resources. When we make teacher plans, etc., why couldn't we say something about the resource effort at the same time? His concern was that we were going to add this list so low. If SV chooses to add the list higher, would it be easier for the Right to be on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1183	I can promise the representative Rikvam that there has been a lot of time and investigation resources in the department to find out whether that can be reasonable, and whether that is possible. The reason why we don't do it is because we don't think it makes sense, and it also seems very difficult. The representative Reikvam himself said that the classification rules do not really matter. On average, the schools are 70 pst. over if I remember correctly. It's hard. It is necessary to establish very complex resource protection standards in order for them to be perceived as just. It can have negative effects in terms of those who use more, starting to adjust to the norm. It's very difficult to do that if we're going to simultaneously upgrade the status of adapted and differentiated education, which means diversity and inequality. And of course, there's also some form of government government that can lead to liability. I find it difficult to judge at all – we have to have curricula – what must be the same for the education system to be equivalent to the students. It's a topic we have to discuss thoroughly. It must be possible to start school in Alta and continue in Oslo, but what is needed for it to be possible, and for us to be one country, I do not feel that we have taken a proper debate on. I am not sure at all that resource protection rules are the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1190	In the post that I made, I focused on the teacher as the school's most important resource. I wonder if the Council of State can say anything about how she thinks that the educational educational institutions can contribute to the development of our school, that is, be a resource for the executive teacher. Can the Council of States say anything about what she thinks about these institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1195	It's a very interesting question, which requires quite a long time. The source of an improvement in Norwegian school is that we are able to achieve a continuous development of competence and a good dissemination of all the good knowledge and experience we have. So the question is how do we get to that. Recent studies and studies presented by the Department in the so-called Competence Report show that the education sector is paradoxically among the sectors where there is least daily learning. It can be said that the education sector and the school are among the least learning and knowledge-intensive organisations we have. That means we're facing serious challenges. I think we need to start thinking a little less traditional about continuing training and developing skills, and think more about how the school works on a daily basis, in order for it to be an exchange of skills and an exchange of experience. It involves forms of cooperation, forms of work and teaching. I want to go back to the qualifiers like class-sharing rules, working time agreements and other things that, in my opinion, affect the school and mean that we can get a quite privatized and lonely profession that doesn't fit the knowledge society.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1200	The President would just say that time does not allow for any more profound answer than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1203	It surprises me that the Council of State will not accept that the Workers' Party has a more nuanced view of the relationship between human resources and financial resources in the school measured up to the results. It is such that the representative Nielsen here does not prejudge any personal vision, but prejudges the position of the largest party on the Stortinget. If the Council of State had read our remarks in today's position, the Council of State would have seen that the Workers' Party also has nuances in relation to this question. The working party also does not say that it is black-and-white. What I'm experiencing is that if all the parties have one position or the other, what comes after the decimal, is just more and more – you take all the reservations, and you see all the shades. Does the Council of State, with its final reply to me, mean that the nuances of the Workers' Party are different or less correct than those of the Right in this debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1210	Just let me end my previous answer that the UH sector's link to the government education administration will be very important in order to exploit that sector in relation to school development. To the Workers' Party: I respect the Workers' Party's view of resources, and that people are occupied with resources, frames and quantities, etc. But the reason why I and maybe someone else are raising the question is that there's still a little bit in the dark for the rest of us what the Workers' Party thinks about school development, how we're going to get to quality development. A question was asked in a line change earlier today if it was possible for the representative Nielsen to reflect a little about the need to resolve the rigid classification rules, and I heard no special response to it. We respect, as I said, the commitment to resource use, but we call for an commitment to content and quality and school development, and it remains a little bit in the dark what the Workers' Party thinks about it. I've allowed myself to say that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1217	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1222	An important principle for the Right is municipal autonomy, and it is important that national politicians provide maximum room for the local elected representatives. This is a principle that should be followed, even if the municipalities choose to give a different priority than the Stortinget. It is also a principle that we must accept that municipalities choose different solutions and give different priorities. Therefore, today's framework funding for education in municipalities is important for the Right. The size should be well guarded to be babysitting for the people's representatives around the municipalities. Fortunately, the keynote on the resource description of basic training shows that municipal policy-makers give priority to education. Although municipal budgets have always been under pressure, statistics show that education has been a priority task for local politicians. This means that Norway is one of the countries that use the most resources per year. student, which gives Norwegian school a very good starting point. Another important theme addressed by the Storing Communication is quality, or learning outcomes, in relation to resources. In my opinion, the best way to describe Norwegian school is through the 85 pst. reasoning. To fulfill the last 15 pst. requires as much as, or maybe more than, to reach the first 85 pst. Norway should have the target of reaching the last percentages, but it requires more of the educational actors and politicians than ever. It is not enough to grant money to improve the school. The setting up of the quality committee, the evaluation of reform 97 and the report on differentiation and adaptation in initial training are good examples of this. The main challenges facing Norwegian schools are the more targeted use of resources and the need for new resources to be used for quality improvement. The cancellation message we are dealing with today takes into account the resource situation defined in economic terms. We must not forget the formidable human capital that exists in Norwegian school, which is essential for the quality development of school. As the Council of State pointed out, a preliminary interim report from the Competence Report for Norway shows that the human capital of the school is not well maintained. The report shows that the most educated are those who acquire more skills in retrospect. Unfortunately, in the education sector they are a group that does not come out as well, compared to other high-level groups. It seems that the school is not as good at exchanging knowledge in the sector as it is at providing users with knowledge. With the background of the last I said, I think it could be an idea of future statements that the Council of State has announced will come – if she is still sitting in the chair – not only should take care of average consumption and school construction, but also make assessments of how quality development has been.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1235	The numbers in St.meld. No 33 for 2002–03 shows that there is a clear link between resource scope and school structure development. The number of small schools and the proportion of students attending such schools have dropped from 1997 to 2002, while the number of schools with more than 320 students and the proportion of students attending them have increased. The research report from Nordlandsforschung, ‘An entire building is needed to raise a child’, shows that the introduction of a new income system for municipalities in 1986 has led to a significant centralisation of primary school. This has mainly taken place through the closure of out-of-date and two-part schools. Furthermore, the report concludes that in most cases where schools have been closed, economic assessments have played a crucial role. The desire to maintain a decentralised school structure is widely politically anchored, both on the basis of pedagogical and on the basis of local policy considerations. While providing students with often very good and well-organised training in the community, the few schools also have a crucial role to play in the survival and viability of smaller communities, or small communities. The inconsistency or absence of consistency between economic and school policies identified by the report is serious. The report says: ‘There seems to be a clear inconsistency between the school policy rhetoric about few schools and the municipal economic reality.’ Few schools are generally more resource-intensive per year. students than fully divided, and the income system causes many small municipalities with a decentralised school structure to have to drop out of schools in order to meet the savings requirements of the country. School developments that are predominantly managed for economic reasons are neither desirable nor in line with national educational policy objectives. In the context of the announcement by the Council of State to spring on the basis of the position of the Committee on Quality, I would challenge the Council of State to keep in mind and, in particular, to look at the reality of the few and inexperienced schools, their importance both for the students, for the parents and for the community, the impact of the closure of such schools as a whole, and at the quality that small schools have to contribute to quality development. There won't be any more quality in a school where parents and students draw posters and go on trains. Of course you'll be good at drawing posters, and of course you'll be good at yelling slogans, but that's not where the challenge lies in the district school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1253	St.meld. No 33 is very interesting reading. It is informative and provides important information on the actual conditions of primary and secondary school. The Norwegian school has a good resource situation, but the main question is how resources are disposed of. It is worrying that even with a good resource situation, the school does not have the capacity to provide the necessary adapted training. L97 determines the individual student’s right to have education adapted to their assumptions and abilities. The evaluation of L97 concludes that the lack of adapted education is a very important reason for the large differences we see in school. Schools now need to rethink and organise in many ways to make the best use of resources. It is serious when the majority of the Committee finds that initial training does not meet the objective of adapted training for each individual student. If we are to succeed, resources must be made available to the individual school and to the individual school manager to a much greater extent than in the past. The PISA study shows that quality can in fact be related to local freedom to dispose of resources. Therefore, the amendment of the Training Act repealing the classification number is very important. It's also important that the number of sharing hours in school can get the level necessary to really give schools this freedom. I'm actually – but I'm sorry to say that – concerned about the decline in the number of split hours, and very pleased about the strengthening of the free revenues of municipalities that was adopted here in the hall yesterday, and that increases the possibility of giving the required number of hours. SV repeats its old proposal, in a new form, now on the indicative standard for the use of resources for each school. I'm actually glad that it doesn't get a majority, and the enthusiasm for such a norm hasn't exactly been overwhelming in the committee hearings. The proposal may appear to be an insurance for necessary resource access, but in reality it will only be an insurance for minimum resource access. There is a resource availability of the vast majority of municipalities, and an indicative standard may result in a reduction in resource availability. Municipal autonomy, clear responsibilities and rational use of resources based on local circumstances indicate that this is not the way to go. Municipalities have and are to be responsible for primary school, and this is where the weightings must be made. I trust local politicians' desire and ability to give the school the necessary priority. Let's not introduce unnecessary state regulation that undermines local authorities' ability to be school owners. So a little bit in the end about the branch schools. The municipalities are responsible for the school structure, and it is clear that the cause of many of the discussions about the closure of primary schools is economic. However, other considerations also need to be taken into account: pedagogical considerations and consideration of municipal development. But then it is that not all school leavings have been unfortunate. There are examples that it has been good for both students and teachers to get into a wider environment. Students have flourished because they have gained more fellow students to deal with, and because they have gained more teachers to deal with. We must therefore not read the statistics on school leaving solely as negative; there are also some positive experiences for some.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1265	It is also the case that the work-time test mentioned in several contexts causes many affected individuals to flourish. It is therefore important to continue the good experience and the good opportunities shown by the experiment into regular school operations. When I now take the floor in conclusion, it is only to recall once again the view of the Progress Party that there are some issues related to resource use that are not affected in the message, but which we hope will come out more clearly and be more affected in future reports to the Storting, which is important for the Storting. Another thing that is not mentioned is the use of time in today’s school. What do we spend time with? One of the things we know is that Norwegian students are among the students who fight the most. We know that Norwegian students lose a lot of time and resources because the problem is disrupting, and deducting time and resources from education and learning and from fighting to recovering the tranquility of all those in the school situation. We have mentioned this in our comments, and we hope that we can get it into the message the next time. We need to focus more on discipline in school. That should have been said. So at the end of my reply to the representative Eva Nielsen of the Workers' Party regarding the content of the Workers' Party in the following statements of its own party program: «At the same time, we must enable students, parents and teachers to participate in the work on the assessment and quality development of school and education.» The answer was that the Progress Party was a lonely rider in its eagerness to reform the school – let it go now – but that the Workers' Party is really satisfied with the arrangements it has through the Cooperation Committee. The point is that the formal body we have that represents the parents, the parental committee for primary school, is far from having the same view that things are very well with the arrangements you have for parental participation in school. On the contrary, we have seen that the Parental Committee of Primary Schools actually wants a much more active parental participation and much more active parental influence in school, and has gradually approached the Progress Party model with autonomous executives with elected parental representatives who should and should be in majority in such boards. But there they have a way to go with the Workers' Party before the parental representatives get the Workers' Party involved in that view, we understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1281	This debate has been used, among other things, by representatives of the right. attacking the SV's proposal to introduce an indicative minimum standard, yes, I think almost everyone, is attacking the proposal. It surprises me a little bit. I understand that they disagree, I accept that, but the way they attack this, the way they argue against this proposal, surprises me a little bit. The whole argument goes largely on that if this norm or standard had been adopted by the Stortinget, it would have led the municipal politicians to be cynical and conform to that norm, and then felt satisfied and satisfied. This is not in line with what the representatives of the Right have said in this debate, in which they highly commend the municipal politicians for their willingness to invest in the education sector. So I don't fully understand the logic. I also need to stress that there is a broad consensus that the Stortinget and the Ministry will adopt curricula; demands will be made for what students will achieve from learning goals in the various subjects and subjects, the competences they will acquire during these 13 years of schooling. There is a broad consensus that we should be able to meet these goals. But then we have to be able to say something about how much resources are needed to achieve these goals. How much resources do we mean that a municipality, a school, needs to be able to do the job that we've told them to do? Because we've told them to do a particular job in relation to some specific goals. And it surprises me that the Right will not go into that debate in that context. Besides, there's one more thing that's important with a minimum standard, one standard -- we call it the guidance, because we're not going to legislate, but it's going to be an indicative norm -- and that's that it would commit itself, the Storting, in a completely different way. Because now we're just two hands, we're making curricula, and so on, and then they're going to start and do the job. They're getting a frame transfer, and then they're going to start. But it's clear that at the moment we had also said at the same time that to do the job they've been told to do in relation to the curriculum, they need a certain number of dollars, and then we had committed ourselves, in relation to the municipalities, to donate to the municipalities the money within a framework of which we're followers, and which we also make visible in this setting that we want to. And I can comfort you that we would set the norm very high, we would set it so high that even if everyone had placed themselves on that norm, it would be a very good school out of it, when it's talking about resources. As I said, this surprises me, and I'm also a little disappointed that they won't enter into a dialogue with us on this topic. We should not restrict the freedom of municipal politicians to dispose of the framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1294	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 751]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1310	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1321	Let me start by saying that today I am going to join and debate what is in the setting, and not what is not in the setting – just as a clarification. ‘The family is the basic unit of society and the natural environment for growth and well-being of all its members, in particular the children. The family should be provided with the necessary protection and assistance to enable it to fully assume its responsibilities in society.» These words could have been taken from the Government's family message or from the Christian People's Party family program, but they're actually taken from the beginning of the UN Children's Convention. This is the world's view of the family. The family message that we are dealing with today in Stortinget is the government's and now also the Storinge's way of facilitating this, so that the family can just become the basic institution it should be. The Committee points out that the family concept covers many different types of life: married couples with and without children, cohabitants with and without children, gay couples with and without children, single parents living with children, cohabiting parents, families with foster children, single, single persons, etc. We as a society cannot make the choice in terms of living for adults, but it is the responsibility of society to respect the rights of children, and society can facilitate the best possible conditions for a stable life. The attitude we are debating today is perhaps rich in words. But it has been – as usual in the Committee on these kinds of issues – a great commitment from all parties. The Committee considers that committed and stable life is the best way of raising children. Marriage differs for two reasons: the formalisation of mutual commitment and more stability. A majority in the Committee, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, therefore believe that marriage provides the best framework for child growth. Cohabitants lack this legal security package provided by marriage automatically. An entire committee believes it is important to provide detailed information on obligations and rights relating to different choices of living, so that there is no unprepared port in a difficult situation. A marriage or a long-term consensual relationship is not just idyllic. We experience that everyday life can be overbooked, with little time for each other, and often we are silenced on what may be difficult. In the busy everyday life, schemes that we have in our society – such as cash support, such as cheap and enough kindergartens, such as working life schemes for employees – are very important to make it possible to have a good family life. The Christian People's Party believes that a course of life works. It is therefore gratifying that today there will be a majority for the Government's proposal for a one-day life course. Everyone, with the exception of the Advancement Party, is in favour of this proposal. The progress party thinks it is naive to bet on this, and SV runs ahead and will already extend the scheme to every time you have a child. I think that is a good initiative. The majority agree that it is an objective to extend this scheme. The Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party want the courses to be approved by the County Council. We disagree on this. I would like to make it clear here that it should still be possible to seek support for a second type of life course – as it is today – because we need a diversity of offers in this sector. Our family protection offices are central to the implementation of the government's policy and are now the family policy of the Storting. It is those who meet families in all stages of life, in the prevention phase, in the crisis and in a breakup phase. I am therefore pleased that the Committee supports the Government's objective of developing competence and increasing the capacity and availability of family protection offices. It's very important that the offices get the skills they need to meet all kinds of families. For example, we have underlined the competence programme for minority families and for parents with disabled children. The entire Committee supports the proposal to automatically give parental responsibility to cohabiters with children. The Committee shares the view on how to recognise the danger, and I expect the majority to explain its own views. Government parties believe that today's system of father recognition and mother acceptance remains in force. The most important thing for us is to secure the child, and we are therefore pleased that we have a common goal of adopting common parental responsibility. The family message says that Father’s responsibility needs to be increased, Father’s role strengthened — and the Committee agrees — by strengthening the paper issue. The entire Committee agrees that self-employment and self-employment should be extended. The entire committee does not agree on the extension of time, but we have a majority for that in the long term, although we disagree on when and how. A minority in the Committee would like to see a change for children in partnerships and links with legal parents. I just want to stress that recently some important decisions have been taken in this room that reinforce the importance of knowing their biological origin, for example. the cancellation of an anonymous sperm donor and the possibility of DNA testing in pharmacovigilance cases. This is just an emphasis on the importance of biological origin. In the case of children's adoptions, it is important for us that today's system, where everyone is treated equally regardless of their orientation, should continue to apply. With regard to the adoption field as a whole, I agree with the Government's view that there has to be an overall review of this whole field. It is gratifying that there seems to be a majority in favour of improving the economic framework in the field of adoption, although there is a different perception of when and how. Another operation in which the Committee supports the Government is the conversion of the mediation mechanism. The conversion means that those who need it most will be offered more time than today, while those who do not need only get one hour. It is also new that cohabitants with children should be admitted to compulsory mediation. This is very important. The situation of children in a breakup is the same whether their parents are married or cohabiting. A minority believe that the separation period should go away, and want a model like in Sweden with reference time only for those who have children. We are pleased that a majority support the Government's view that a separation period provides an opportunity to think about, but emphasises that there are arrangements to terminate marriage by judgment when there are abuses or other special situations. The Committee sees it as very important that as a society we care about the families where everyday violence and abuses affect us. Measures for children who are exposed to or witnessed to violence are very important for children to have the best possible upbringing. Children who grow up in a home characterized by big conflicts need an extra follow-up, and we need to know more to help better. Research projects on violence are therefore important, both in order to know the consequences and also in order to develop treatment provision for those who beat. We are also pleased that a working group has been set up to look at issues related to violence and association. When working with a family message, it is important that you look at all kinds of families, and that you try to get into the everyday life in which children grow up – in any case. The message has several points following the settings of the Sambo Committee. There are also a lot of other changes, but due to time constraints I have to be careful to refer to the message. The changes relate to inheritance, social assistance and some other economic schemes. Eight out of ten young people picture the future of a lifelong marriage. To make their dream of the future a reality, this family message is the tool that can be involved and make the dream a reality. I recommend the setting, and look forward to a great debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1368	Today, we are finally dealing with the family message. I have to say that I am a little surprised that some people have the ability to have an answer on behalf of everyone else, or to say otherwise, the recipe has how others should live their lives. I hope a good public utility is actually ready to help such A4 people when they meet everyday, or get a ‘thress’, as the Prøysen would have said. For what do we know about people's desires and visions? We all have our visions, but we can't transfer them to others. We may not even be able to put them into life for ourselves. I get really tired when I hear people who have good pay, tidy privacy and a social network around them, say how life should be lived for others. The debate today is positive because the Committee is united on most of it. We have a message presented by a Council of State from the Christian People's Party, which has managed to raise the tab that cohabitants and spouses should be treated in a non-discriminatory way. It's positive. So the government has seen that it's not so important whether the parents are married or not, just giving them a safe home. It can be good parents of the same sex too! The Christian People's Party should notice that. Children ask for love and security, not for sex. Just for the sake of the children born in a lesbian situation where father is unknown, the Workers' Party will ensure that the child has a legal relationship with both parents. Adoption shall always have the best starting point for the child. That's what we do when we propose a change of law on this point. The Workers' Party has supported the Government's proposal to offer first-time birthers a life course – well, notice if they want to. The working party is not so naive that we believe that it should prevent any breakup in life, but it may help some. The Labour Party believes that separation must be the individual's own choice. The cause of a breakup is many, and in many cases it is best for the children to separate parents. There's no fasit in life – remember that! We must not forget that the safety of children is linked to the economic and social situation of the family. Therefore, it has been, and will always be, right for the Workers' Party to provide full employment. The working party has entered into its alternative budget to create 12000 more action places. It is important that unemployment does not create undue financial problems for the families affected, nor for the children. The working party will therefore reintroduce the holiday supplement, increase the maximum social benefit period from two to three years, reduce the requirement for leave from 50 pst. to 40 pst. and reduce the number of waiting days from five to three. This should actually help the government if it really meant something about a good family policy. The government is a champion of the cash support in the name of freedom of choice, but has anyone asked the children? In many cases — at worst — it can be at home that children have difficulty. Whether we like it or not, it's actually the kindergarten staff who for these kids is the safest port. I'm not saying this is common, but I'm saying that one such case is one too much. Children enjoy being with others and learning interaction and solidarity, and kindergartens are a place to be and a place to learn. Therefore, it is most important for the Workers' Party to bet on full child care coverage at a low price. The Workers' Party supports the proposal for a new compulsory mediation scheme with a mediation certificate for married and cohabitants with children under 16 years of age. The working party agrees that the mediation certificate must be submitted in order to increase the level of child protection. We believe, however, that it must be clarified that if one party does not meet, this should not affect the meeting party. The children shall, where possible, be consulted in the work on the contract. A specific time limit shall be set for the completion of the contract to be negotiated and signed. The Labour Party will stress the importance of a public negotiating process, for example: in the family protection offices. If agreement is not reached and the case has to be dealt with legally, the Workers' Party would point to the importance of giving priority to child distribution matters by the judiciary. The Labour Party also believes that once judgments have taken place, they should be implemented as soon as possible. The Labour Party has taken on board the fact that the family concept is changing, that people choose different forms of life, and that it is positive that society facilitates different choices. The choice of form of life is up to the individual. The important thing is that a life together works well, and that the children get a good and safe growth. In the event of a break in life, attention must be paid to ensuring that children are brought up as well as possible. The Labour Party has also pointed out that a secure financial framework is important for life and parenthood. I note that the representative, Dagrun Eriksen, would prefer to discuss what is stated in the communication, not what is not. I can understand that slowly! But she has now been in all the TV channels and talked about what is not in the message. To the VG, the representative Eriksen has made an article explaining or explaining her play on divorce accounts. But I wonder what this play is for something, because she says, among other things. in the Article: ‘Of course, I do not want people to hold together in bad conditions, such as violence.’ - That's right! That's what this is all about. Unlike the representative Eriksen, I have confidence that people know what's best for their own lives. We're not going to tell them that at Stortinget. Therefore, it is not crucial what the framework of society has, but the quality of it. I actually don't know what the Christian People's Party feels when I now quote from a editorial in Today's Business Dated 24 November 2003: "For decades after decades, KRF has fought against women's right to self-determined abortion, and against the right of homosexuals to live a worthy life."And further, "How many human costs could not have been reduced, and how many resources could not be freed for better purposes had KRF not existed?Let's get the figures on the table!"Let's get the accounts of what KRF-induced suffering has cost Norway."
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1419	The co-operation government has put family policy on the agenda in a completely different way from what we have seen from previous governments. Since the cooperation administration joined, we have taken many steps in the right direction: the cash support has increased. We have a broad agreement on child care policy, which the Government follows up in the budget. We have got new rules for dealing with pharmacovigilance, and we have got new rules for dealing with child distribution issues. The government has been given a majority in favour of new child protection measures. The state assumes responsibility for second-line child protection so that we can ensure better quality and an equivalent offer across the country. In particular, the Government has been given a majority to introduce new working methods in the field of child protection, which are precisely about strengthening families and providing help to families with problems. Families shall be helped to survive by exploiting the resources available around the family. The government has provided a big message on growing-up conditions for children and young people. New and fairer rules on contributions have been put in place. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is incorporated into Norwegian legislation. Yes, the list is a long way from everything the Government has put forward, and has a majority. But what's more important than the number of things you've been through is that we no longer have a government that is passive about the flow, but a government that is running an active family policy. For the Right, the family is the basic social institution of society and the main arena of belonging, proximity and community. The family provides the best framework for child growth and provides care, learning, socialisation, solidarity, self-development and value sharing. Right will put children at the centre of family policy and will give priority to a family policy that facilitates good childhood and youth growth and living conditions, a safe economic situation for families with children and equality between men and women. On the right, families will be given financial freedom and the possibility for parents to spend more time with their children. Although the right has had a lot to do with family policy and consumer policy, there is little doubt that time squeeze is still a problem for families with children. Family policy is therefore very important. I want to commend the Minister for Children and Family Affairs for presenting a forward-looking communication. Let me again stress that the children are primarily the responsibility of their parents. The right will not pursue a policy that disincentives parents to responsibility for their own children. Of course, if some parents do not have the power to take responsibility alone, or do not have the power to have it at all, society should be set up. We are going to put the framework in place for those parents who can and will take responsibility, but who do not agree on how to allocate responsibility among themselves, for example. after a break in life. Here I have already mentioned some of the measures taken by the Government to have a majority: new rules on child distribution issues, the aim of which is to help parents to achieve more stable and robust agreements for responsibility, care, association and contributions. I have also mentioned the new and fairer rules on contributions, which make clearer demands on both parents' own responsibilities for their own children. I am pleased that the government now also gets a clear signal from the bulk of the population to present a case of equal parental responsibility for cohabiting parents as for married people. It's a matter that means a lot to tens of thousands of parents and children all over the country! The government has been accused of idyllizing and exaggerating the importance of marriage as an institution. Of course that's not right. But statistics and experience show that marriage is the most stable form of life without comparison, and that it is the form of life that gives the most security for a good upbringing for children. Marriage also provides a ‘legal security package’ for both children and adults. I guess there's someone who deliberately wants to misunderstand this, so let me add immediately that of course we don't believe that all marriages will last at all costs. Violence and assault are examples of a marriage, or some other form of life for that matter, not having the right to life. If a woman is subjected to marital violence, my advice is that she divorces. Domestic violence is totally unacceptable and is a direct threat to children’s good and safe growth conditions. In addition, as a society, we have an important role to play in caring for violent women and children and in combating domestic violence. I am pleased that the Minister for Child and Family Affairs is taking this problem seriously. I look forward to getting a family violence coordinator in all police districts, close follow-up of violent children, and not least a treatment offer for violent men. Let me add, of course, that people should choose the form of life they themselves want, or that best suits them. Let me also add that children who grow up in other forms of life than marriage, of course, also have good overall. It'll be people of them, too, to say it like that. Similarly, marriage is not a guarantee of growth in beauty and harmony. Let me also stress that the Right believes that there should still be a difference between marriage and cohabitation, not because we are going to discriminate against cohabitants, but because people are going to have the opportunity to choose between different forms of life. And of course, we're going to remember that there's a pretty big difference between consensual couples. There's a big difference, for example. a young couple in their 20s who have decided to move together in an apartment during the study period, and an adult couple in their 40s with common children and houses. We can't treat them the same way, and we can't set the same requirements for them, even though they formally have the same status as consensual residents. This is why the Right-wing proposal to draw the dividing line among the children supports it. Because we're putting the children in the center, we want cohabitants with children to have extra duties and rights. That's why common people get equal parental rights, that's why they get mediation obligations, and that's why we want to give them the right to sit in the opposite direction, and that's why we want to give them inheritance rights, and so on. It is important to facilitate children's sense of stability and security in their upbringing, regardless of their parent's form of life. Regardless of the form of life, unfortunately, many parents are struggling in society. Very many people choose to stop living together. Right think that a lot of life breaks could have been prevented if married and cohabiting people had been helped to deal with life at an early stage. We don't believe, like the Progress Party, that nothing can be done to prevent a break in life. I have registered that the Progress Party believes it is incredibly naive to believe that a course of life can work. I think it's the Progress Party that must be called incredibly passive, if they're not even willing to try to reverse the trend. I don't believe, of course, that all life crimes can be prevented or prevented, but I'm at least willing to try. The right, therefore, joins the proposal for a free life course for all first-time parents, and is keen to see how the Council of State will implement this work and what its content will be in these courses. Equal opportunities must be provided for women and men to participate both in work and in family life. Then fathers must have rights that strengthen their role in child care. New fathers actually want more time with their children, and the Right does not believe in introducing equality by taking from the important maternity leave to give to father. We think it's the right signal that dad gets his own and independent basis for paper commissioning. With this message, the focus has shifted from the parent’s way of life to creating good growth conditions for the children and to making the commitment to living and parenting visible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1451	The President assumes that the Labour Party would like to make its proposals. Eirin Faldet is therefore given the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1454	Thank you, President! I take this up with the proposals where the Workers' Party is the proposer or the co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1459	The representative Eirin Fallet has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1462	The working party spent about its entire speaking time on the family message on a breakup. The Christian People's Party is now very pleased that consorts and spouses are being equated in very many areas. What kind of world are we living in, and what kind of conditions are there, when the Christian People's Party, which should be the family party and the one who protects about marriage and what it stands for, now equates marriage and marriage? What kind of relationship is there when you spend your entire speaking time on a breakup? I also think it is very special of the Right to call the Advance Party 'unbelievable naive'. I actually think that the right has not completely followed, and that they have taken things out of their context. It's not that we don't want a life course, it's what I'm going to come back to a little later in my post, but that the public is starting to get involved in the individual human choice. Like some of the other parties in the hall, the Progress Party believes that the family is the basic institution of society, the place where children learn to take responsibility for their own lives and respect the lives and property of others. The family shall have the most important role of commissioning and ensuring that children are given safe and well-kept conditions for growth. The nuclear family is not yet out of fashion, which is very much appreciated by the Progress Party. Because we still believe in the family as a gathering point in someone else at times very stressful everyday life for both children and adults. Our society is increasingly demanding of us as human beings. It is therefore of great importance that individuals have the social, closeness and community feeling that they can get with their families, so that they have some to share with — but also the sorrows — and have support players when they get tough. Let's look at what this message says about the different stages of our family life. An overall committee takes on the fact that people choose differently, and that, therefore, today, different forms of living can be found. Examples of this have already been mentioned by the Christian People's Party, married couples with and without children, cohabitants with and without children, etc. The Advance Party attaches great importance to the individual’s right to choose the form of life in which you want to live. However, we will warn against equalizing all forms of life. It must be that when people make their choices, they must also take the consequences of it, and not expect to have the same rights regardless of which choices you make. If you enter into an obligating marriage, you must be entitled to do so. If you choose a looser and less obligating form of life, you should not automatically get the same rights as a married couple. That's exactly why you've chosen a more loose life. The party of progress believes in man and its ability to find proper solutions for itself and its family. That is why we are also opposed to a one-day life course once you have got your first birth. I don't quite know how the majority has intended to implement this, and it's going to be interesting to see how many people accept the offer. For the first time born, the focus is on the child. I find it hard to imagine that a life course is accepted when the suckler cow is close to the head. Moreover, we do not fully see the reason why the public should be involved in a life course. A one-day course probably saves hardly any relationship. However, there are non-profit and Christian organisations that offer a course of life, a system that has worked since 1994, which works perfectly well, and which has a good uproar. We do not say that a life course is not useful, but we say that it should be up to the individual couple themselves to choose what kind of offer they want to use. We are convinced that the means given to organisations at such a course of life will be a far more efficient use of taxpayers' money than the first to build up a public apparatus to administer this system, in addition to all those that need to be employed to implement the scheme. So to the kids. The children are the adults of the future. It is therefore important, as I mentioned earlier, that children grow up with safe and good frameworks around them, with parents who are good role models for them. Therefore, the Progress Party proposes that parents, irrespective of their form of life, should have automatic shared parental responsibility. This has produced reactions, including: by the Association of Advocates, which claims to be conflict-making. They have even gone so far as to claim that it may be an intrusion of mother and her wishes. But now it's so that in the first place we don't think about mom or dad in this situation. We're thinking about the child. What's more natural than securing the child's right to both of his parents, whether the adults like it or not? The fact that automatic joint parental responsibility is going to be conflict-making, I don't get to rhyme either, all the time it's just the question of who's going to be responsible, which is now conflict-making. In such a change of law as the Progress Party proposes, the parent responsible must take active action to deprive the other parent of the right, and not as it is now, where an active action must be taken in order to obtain the right to be a parent. The Progress Party cannot support the proposal to the Workers' Party and the Centre that children who have unknown biological hazards and who are dependants in a partnership relationship should have the same rights as children who are born with spouses. This will be contrary to our principle view that all children should have a mother and a father. Such a proposal helps to relax the right to gay adoption, and of course we can't join it. The Progress Party is very pleased that the term ‘common rights of association’ in the Children’s Act is reworded. This is because what is a common companionship for one parent killer is a completely unusual companionship for another. The rewording helps to normalise all forms of association, and the main thing must be that the child has the best possible and the best possible association with both parents after a break-in. In the case of the recognition of fatherhood, the Progress Party is of the opinion that father must have the right to recognise fathership on an independent basis. And when danger is recognised or condemned by danger cases, it shall result in automatic joint parental responsibility. It is, as I said, a right for the child and not a right for the parents. The Progress Party believes that fathers should also have an independent right of access to paper, but do not want to extend the leave. Norway has one of the very best birth permit schemes in the world, and we can see no reason to extend the timeframe in today's economic situation. It would be both cost-intensive and socio-economically unlucky. We are sure that the two concerned will find solutions that are in the best interests of the child and of himself, based on the already existing arrangements. Good solutions for both cash support and childcare services provide young children’s parents with the opportunity to make real choices that are best for themselves and their families. Finally. We live in a beautiful country. Our children grow up with fresh air and green lungs, whether they live in big cities or in rural areas. The family message can be seen as a description of misery. It describes a moral decay in this country that is not quite right. The party of progress will make it clear that most people are growing up with their parents around them, without the big conflicts to deal with. These children grow up to be safe, independent and wise adults, who in turn have children, generation after generation. We're always going to help those who don't fix their daily lives, but let's not color the days black, when they're really so full of colors. Finally, I would like to address the proposals in the vote on which the Progress Party is the proposer or the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1492	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1495	In case of an incursion, SV is not connected to a note in the setting. There is a note on page 29 under Joint Parental Responsibility. It says: «Members of the Committee of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party...». The Socialist Left Party shall also take part in that remark. The Socialist Left Party would stress that the family is important for the development of children, but would point out that children can have excellent growth and development potential without being related to the biological family. The concept of family is broad and consists of different forms of life, which are freely available to the individual and which must be valued in the same way. Married couples with and without children, cohabitants with and without children, gay partners with and without children, single parents living with children, cohabiting parents, foster families, single, single residents, etc. Many children suffer from the fact that their parents ’ lives do not end for different reasons. It is true that marriage as an institution formalizes mutual commitments and more stability, but it is wrong to claim that this is only positive. The message impersonates and exaggerates the meaning of marriage as a form of life. The Socialist Left supports the Government's proposal to offer a one-day course of life to new parents for the first time, but disagrees that this is limited to first-time birth only. It can be a challenge for society and single-parents every time you have children, and many partners in life and single-parent families experience later pregnancies and births as a greater burden than they did for the first time. There are also new issues and new challenges in having more children, and many have changed partners in the meantime. The Socialist Left Party wants all newly-baked parents to be offered a one-day course in life. It is also important that efforts and resources are increased with regard to the parental guidance in the maternity course. Too many people will be too late to take a course after birth, as large parts of the problems of life problems arise in pregnancy. Those responsible for the pregnancy checks and the maternity courses must be more responsible for this. The parental preparation course and the maternity course, which provided some of the contents of the life course, are now the balancing post in many municipalities due to poor municipal economy. This is one of the reasons why SV supports this proposal, as there are fresh funds available from the State budget for a life course. Many of today’s life courses run around the country are expensive, and this will exclude many from the offer. I know that from my own practice. These courses should be free of charge, and we believe that they should be held at the health centre. I would like to stress that there are not just families with disabled children, as pointed out in the message, who are in a particularly vulnerable situation that often leads to a breakdown in life. Parents who lose children either during pregnancy, at birth, in the death of a gang, or later in life have the same burdens of living together. Associations such as We who have a child too small and the Krybbe Death Association have good follow-up measures for these parents and are a good and necessary supplement to the public utility. It is important that associations providing good, necessary and diverse offers to parents in crisis receive predictable financial grants for their activities. In setting the law on changes to the child law, the size decided that the government should promote a bill that gives cohabiting parents equal parental responsibility to married couples. We want to start by saying that dad who's registered as a cohabitant on the population register is going to be an automatic father at birth, as in marriage, without father having to sign that he's a father. Nor do we want mother to sign and thus confirm that father is a father. This is an old-fashioned and heavy-working routine. But we are, as I said at the outset, in the Workers' Party's and Advancement Party's remarks on simplifying the declaration, so that there is a majority in favour of it. The Socialist Left Party believes it is necessary to extend father's leave after birth. This is an important step towards an equal parenthood and important for the child’s right to early association with two parents. The paper issue has been a successful measure for fathers and is increasingly being used. It is important that your father is paid on the basis of his own earnings, regardless of the size of his mother’s position and whether she is at home or not. It is important for the father's relationship with the child. The period of leave shall be additional to and shall not shorten the period of leave of the mother. The Socialist Left Party also wants the Government to look at the new rules on leave that have been introduced in Iceland, which is a division of leave after birth with 1/3 to mother, 1/3 to father and 1/3 to optional, evaluates them and assesses whether to introduce the same in Norway. The Socialist Left is promoting several proposals today that aim to facilitate financially an equal parenthood. We ask that, if possible, an investigation be carried out to amend the rules of the People's Security Act for transitional allowances in order to meet the needs of parents with shared care. We want to introduce automatic child welfare to both parents at a divided residence. And we ask the Government to change the necessary rules, so that tax class 2 applies to both parties through shared care. We are also promoting a proposal today that marriage and partnership should be treated as legal. We believe that the automatic establishment of partnerships should give the same rights as marriage. We believe that marriage and partnership are equal. I would like to point out that the Stortinget amended Section 4 of the Partnership Act and Section 5 of the Adoption Act to allow one of the parties in the registered partnership to adopt the other partner's child under the adoption law. A significant reason for this change was to ensure that the child’s right to have two legal parents also had to apply to children in a registered partnership. I find that soon two years after the law came into force, very few applications for stebarn adoption from registered partners have still been accepted. By a known biological father, I agree that there may be reason to wait until the child reaches an age where it can express its opinions itself. But for a number of children who grow up with two lesbian mothers, it's not a current issue. In these cases, biological father is often unknown, and the child is born after a partnership has been established. Lack of legal links with social parents in the event of a break in life deprives the child of all rights to association or support. In the event of death, the child will not be automatically heirs and the child will not be entitled to payment from insurance in the event of death. The Socialist Left supports the proposal today to amend Chapter 2 of the Children’s Act so that cohabiting parents of the same sex and of different sex are treated in a non-discriminatory manner and proposes further amendment of the guidelines for sterilisation adoption in line with this amendment. We are sorry that we are on our own about this proposal, but we signal that we will subsidly support proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. We also propose that divorce legislation be amended in the same way as the Swedish one, where the period of separation has been removed. If there's a child in the relationship, there's going to be a six-month observation period. This is a good change, which will preserve those who live in unworthy conditions of violence and violence, and who are ready to end their lives. It's the task of society, and it's an important task, to facilitate a good life. Breakup is often a burden both for adults and for children. Good economic frameworks, reasonable and organised housing, price-adjusted child welfare, maximum-price kindergartens for all those who want them, and measures against poverty are essential areas that can provide a better framework for a life. Violence and crises affect many families, and there is a need for an organised offer for crisis management. Crisis centres and incest centres must have a predictable economy that provides them with framework conditions for which to operate. The Socialist Left Party has proposed 100 pst. State funding. We didn't get a majority for that. But in this position, there is now a majority comment, from the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party, on earring and 80 pst. State funding. 20 pst. must be paid by the municipalities. This is not as good as SV's proposal, but it is a very good improvement. The council has not followed up what Stortinget clearly said when we dealt with this matter. There should be a proposal for funding in the 2004 budget. I now expect the Council of State to move in and follow up on what the majority of the Committee has said about financing crisis centres. Finally, I would like to make it clear that SV is withdrawing the cash support in the 2004 budget, as in the 2003 budget. The cash support has led to a negative trend in equality. We also signal that we will subsidize proposals No. 5 and 6, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party, and I'm taking up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1534	The representative of May Hansen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1537	As well as the Progress Party, the Center Party believes that children have the right to know who is a father, but we recognize that other countries have other laws, and that in our country they live children where biological father is unknown. The legal rights of these children are the Center Party through proposal No. 5 wants to make sure. For the Center Party, the home and family are the basic social unit of our society. The quality of life in the world is often crucial for the development of children. Individuals shall have the opportunity to share and control their own lives, and it is important to ensure that people belong to their community, whether they live in town or in the country. For the Centre Party, it is important to stress that all should have equal opportunities, regardless of gender, age, orientation, level of function, marital status, housing, life views and ethnicity. Different family organisation imposes stronger requirements for flexibility, tolerance and association. We have to accept that people are probably different. Society changes faster than ever, changes will continue. Not least change is big for children and young people. Technology has invaded the nursery. Many parents have money, but not time, while others have time, but belong to the new-poor, who labor economically. If parents and children are to have more time together, it is important to stress the responsibilities of both employers and public service institutions that kindergartens and school-time facilities have in order to facilitate flexible provision and solutions. Traditionally, the Center Party has been close to the Christian People's Party in family policy. This setting also indicates that the Central Party supports the main thread of the message. The centre party contributed to the introduction of the current cash support model. But for the Center Party, it's important that everyone has real freedom of choice with regard to how they want to organise their everyday life. I believe that one of the most important steps the Storting can do with regard to real choice is to implement the childcare arrangement. I believe that everyone who wants to do this can get a nursery place at an acceptable price, is also an important measure of equality policy. The centre party does not want to escalate today's cash support model. Continuous evaluation and evaluation could provide the basis for possible other measures that could be targeted in order to improve the situation of young children’s parents. This applies both economically and with regard to the time aspect. The message is extensive and fives in many areas. It is important to note that a co-conspirator's committee stresses that family involvement involves many types of living together. A relatively large group of the nation's population gets little attention in the message. It's the thousands of arenas. In some areas, I lack more commitment, areas of which the Christian People's Party – together with the Center Party – has traditionally been occupied by. Not least the adoption support is available. In the past, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have stood ‘debt on their shoulders’ to increase the benefit. Unfortunately, there are no multiples to support our proposal for a stepping up plan to reach 1 G. I would also like to mention the new rules of contributions and point to two proposals that were made in ours, which unfortunately the Christian People's Party does not support: assess measures to improve the economic situation of families with children living on disability an adjustment to the legislation so that those with the lowest income are not framed; I don't mean to change the law, but I still want to encourage the Council of State to follow this matter closely. The Committee acknowledges that, in some family situations, the level of conflict is so high that there is more tranquility and security around the child’s upbringing that it will be a break in life. The Central Party therefore fully supports the need for further development of its work by family protection offices and the strengthening of its competence. I think it is absolutely fundamental that we recognize that children are also included in the chat room. We also support the proposal to provide a one-day life course for first-time births. That there is a problem with meeting actual demand must mean that the course of life has been a success, and we are positive that this is being extended to all newly-baked parents. We support the Government's proposal that co-workers with common children under the age of 16 should also have compulsory mediation. I would like to praise the note from the Barneombodet called ‘The Council’s Son — Planning for the Children in the event of family changes’. Even if the comments from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center's party do not give multiples, I ask the Council to note the recordings made by the Barneombodet. It's thorough, elaborate and highly focused on what's best for children.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1579	First, it refers to a minority that opposed the changes in the contribution scheme adopted in spring 2001. The coastal party was in that minority, but it has been omitted from the decision. I ask that it be corrected. Family policy suffers from the seemingly low level of cooperation between the committees dealing with different issues related to family framework conditions. The current report acknowledges that divorce rates for families with disabled children are increasing because of the chronic extra strain to which marriage is subjected. Mothers who give birth to disabled children are therefore at greater risk of being left alone in their daily care, which means that too many people also have a reduced ability to support themselves and their children through a professional career outside their home. Nevertheless, with the support of SV last Tuesday, the Government adopted a tightening of the Biotechnology Act to prevent pregnant women from being informed about the health of the foetus, so that the life situation becomes a basis for assessing whether their family or life relationship will withstand the impact of having a disabled child, even if it is possible to bear responsibility for this child if society does not tolerate such a strain. One might wonder: Does the Family Committee have any contact with the Health and Social Committee at all? It should be noted that families with disabled children need better relief mechanisms to cope with everyday stresses, and the Committee would like family protection offices to take care of this. The need for relief is not reduced by strengthening family protection offices, but by providing municipalities with the framework conditions necessary for good relief measures, but the government is tightening up the municipal economy. There is little help in increasing the free resources, if they are not large enough to meet the need for, among other things. relief measures for children's families under pressure, an unregulated task. In these days, there are signals from all over the country that municipalities need to reduce relief measures and other measures specifically designed to address the weakest in society. Does the Family Committee have contact with the Municipal Committee on this matter? In the Financial Committee, the Government Parties, in agreement with the Workers' Party, have accepted that the right of single parents to deduct documented expenses for the care of children is to be tested on the basis of income, despite the fact that the living standards of the two-income families are constantly increasing. At the same time, the need-tested cash support has been raised. The coastal party is not in favour of the cash support, and we are opposed to it being financed by worsening the financial conditions of the sole parent and reducing the ordinary child benefit, as has been done over several years. Life course for newly-baked parents is one of the Christian People's Party's flagships. But are these parents most in need of advice? What about the complex families, where my children and your children are going to live with our children, where parents, and not least grandparents, need advice in relation to the importance of equal treatment for children living in the same family? This is a problem area that is not included in the family committee. The Coastal Party believes that good marriage is the safest and best framework for children in their childhood, but we cannot be blind because many children experience different family constellations. Their needs have not been adequately addressed in this big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1596	The President will recall that the decision-making authority and the decision-making authority of the Grand Duchy are not in the committees but in the plenary part-session.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1599	I regard family communication as a renewal of family policy and am pleased that the Committee shares this view. The Committee concludes on the Government's assessment of the family as the basic institution of society, where children learn values both for their own lives and for association with others. The majority agree that marriage provides the best framework for child growth. I have just wanted to put the children at the centre of policy development and also to stress the importance of a responsible, committed parenthood for both sexes. It is great that the Committee also stresses that family life as a concept involves many different types of life. I am particularly pleased that, apart from the Advancement Party, everyone supports the proposal for a free cohabitation course for couples and cohabitants when they have their first child. In my opinion, this is the best measure to ensure stable growth conditions for children. I have noticed that some parties will offer the course at each birth. The Ministry of Children and Family now works to develop the content of the course. The government has proposed to set aside $5 million. kr in the next year’s budget for this measure. That means that we can get started in some municipalities already next year. Here, voluntary organisations with their experience will also play an important role. The working party and SV propose to cancel the separation period for couples who do not support children and agree on divorce. I disagree with that. It is important for everyone to have the reference time that the separation institution is supposed to be before marriage is dissolved. Knowledge of the new forms of family is important, not least about the conditions for children after a breakup. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee agrees that research should be started to monitor children's and parents' experiences with shared residence. I have noticed that a majority want to replace the term ‘common rights of association’ in the Children’s Act, in order to stress that each case has to be assessed individually. SV and the Central Party are concerned that the new rules on contributions lead to increased differences between children living with both parents and children of divorced parents. As you know, the new rules on contributions must be evaluated. The results will be communicated to the Stortinget in a separate communication and also in the 2005 budget proposal. The Ministry is preparing a joint motion for a resolution on shared parental responsibility for cohabitants with children under 16 years of age. I am pleased that there is full agreement that as many parents as possible should have shared parental responsibility for common children. Our recommendation is that the father should recognize the father and be accepted by the mother, and that the couple declare that they live together. Joint parental responsibility shall follow automatically. I take notice, of course, that the majority wants a slightly different solution, and will follow this up in the further work. I am also pleased that the Committee supports the proposed amendments to the mediation system. Any parent with a common child under 16 years of age, both spouses and cohabitants, shall, in the event of a break-up, meet up to one hour of compulsory mediation so that the break-up can be carried out with the minimum possible adverse effects on the child. The voluntary mediation offer will be strengthened so that more resources can be used in the difficult and conflict-affected cases. The goal is for more parents to come up with a voluntary and good arrangement for their children. I am pleased to note that the majority support the proposals to strengthen the right of fathers to birth grant, and that a future extension of the paper issue will not be at the expense of Mother's leave period. This is also a good gender equality policy. Like the Government, the majority of the Committee considers that there is a need for a better adjustment of cash support for the use of part-time space in kindergarten. The government will come back to this in connection with the changes in kindergarten, which we are working on. As the Committee, the Government is committed to preventing violence and finding good solutions to a serious societal problem. The government wants to develop a comprehensive policy in the field of violence and trauma, with the aim of providing women and children exposed to violence, sexually abused and practitioners with access to a good and complete range of services. Visualisation, cooperation and development of knowledge and competences are the key elements of family communication for the fight against violence. A new action plan, ‘violence in close relations’, will be ready next year — probably in the spring, in May. The plan shall have a special focus on men who engage in violence in couples, children who grow up in families in which violence is practised and on the competence of the auxiliaries. Children are particularly vulnerable when it comes to family violence. The crisis centres and incest centres act both as a complement and as a substitute for the other auxiliary equipment. The government is now working on a future financing and management system for crisis centres, and I notice that the majority still want a earmarked scheme. I must be allowed to comment on the representative May Hansens, we shall call it an attack, on the Council of State. She said that the Council of State would come back to funding crisis centres in the 2004 budget. In fact, it was SV who, in the context of the municipal proposal this year, together with a majority, decided that today’s financing scheme would also apply to the crisis centres in 2004. In other words, the Council of State was stopped in its work on conversion. That is why there is no mention of the crisis centres in the 2004 budget. But we're still working – we'll come back when the Women's Violence Committee has presented its position. In a short time, a cross-ministerial working group will submit proposals for action, including legislative proposals, in order to better ensure that the child is taken into account in child distribution cases where allegations of violence and abuse against the child are made or that the child has witnessed violence. Furthermore, the working group will propose measures to improve the possibility for vulnerable women and children to avail themselves of protective measures, such as a secret address and a fictitious identity. Measures are also proposed in relation to crisis centres and child protection information obligations in cases where there is a risk that the child will be harmed by mother moving back to the offender. The purpose of the regulation in the case of cohabiters is to protect children and to balance rights and obligations. I am pleased that there is also broad support for cohabiting partners not being treated in the same way as spouses on a general basis, but only in specific areas of law. This is for the sake of the children. The representative, Woldseth, says that the Progress Party wants to secure the child in every context, but not if the parents are cohabitants. I notice that. Marriage is in a special position and should still be. Marriage is more committed and stable than cohabitation, and is the best framework for child growth. Finally, this family message must be seen in the context of other communications and odelstningspropositions submitted by the Government this year and last year. I mention the Child and Youth Communication, that children and young people are a resource, the Child Protection Communication, on new organisation, more prevention, early intervention, that the legitimacy of child protection should be strengthened, more co-ordination in the auxiliary care system and more political awareness of child protection. I mention changes in the marriage law in relation to coercion. I mention the changes in the Children’s Act on New Rules of Procedure and a number of other things, the incorporation of the Children’s Convention into Norwegian law and a number of action plans – against commercial pressure on children and young people, against marriage and against gender mutilation. We're working on a plan of violence. We've made a plan against trafficking, i.e. the purchase and sale of children, not to talk about the work we've been doing on sexual and physical abuse of children. This family message has chosen to focus on the children, like all the other messages, but it has to be viewed in a complete way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1637	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1640	I think the government's policy on the discussion of marriage is too little nuanced in relation to reality. As politicians, I believe that we should develop a policy that is in line with reality and people's needs. It is therefore not a goal in itself that those who have married and found out that this was wrong, and who do not have a child, should be charged with a separation period. The working party believes that the difference is a right that the individual has. In some families, abuse and abuse occur – we know that well. It is therefore important to stress that the choice of separation must be based on personal relationships. I am disappointed with the Right and the Afghan Rafiq, who a year ago was very positive that the separation time should be cut out. She would even consider promoting a private proposal, and this was clarified in the Right. Now it's quiet on the right-hand side. Is it the Christian People's Party that has won the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1649	I do not share the representative's view that being a follower of marriage is too nuanced. It is very strong in the family message, where we say that marriage is more binding, and it lasts longer. It is also documented through some research. Two to three times as many consensual marriages as marriages go into disintegration. When we ask the young, they have faith in marriage. They actually want to marry. That's why we boldly say that marriage is the best framework for children's growth. As for the separation period, we've come to the conclusion that we want to keep this. In fact, some couples find each other back in the separation period. They get an opportunity, individually, to think through their situation in peace and quiet. So from the government's side, we think it's important to keep the separation time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1656	Auto-shared parental responsibility, regardless of the parent’s form of life, should be the best care for children – not tax advantages because you are a cohabiter, nor inheritance benefits because you are a cohabiter. Repeatedly, we have heard the Christian People's Party point to the importance of marriage as an institution, which is of course supported by the Progress Party. How, then, can it be that a Council of State from the Christian People's Party is now laying down on the liberal line, and in new and more extensive areas are likening cohabiters and spouses? Is this Christian People's Party's new family profile?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1663	First, I would like to repeat that the family message has a profound focus on the children. What's best for the kids is the red thread in the message. And we've seen that in some cohabitation there, to take an example, one of the parents dies, the surviving one sometimes has to go from house to house because you haven't been married and had the legal security package it's to be married. Just for the sake of the children, we have introduced some new rights, especially with a focus on this. Then we should not forget that in proposals in the family communication there are also some obligations that we give to cohabitants, again for the sake of the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1669	The attack by the Council of State on funding shows quite clearly why SV did as they did. This hall has already said up to 20 pst. municipal funding and earmarking. What was promoted was a framework grant without legal requirements. This means, with the poor local economy we have today, that more crisis centres will be closed down. So to the question, there's been a legitimate criticism in the press in the last few days against the message. The message does not focus on the situation of the lonely. The Council of State and the Committee, including myself, have not given solitude a legal place in this family communication. Loneliness is also family. The Council of State will take responsibility for correcting this, e.g. by: to launch a single life-cycle survey?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1676	It is true that we, especially from the Government, have not gone into the whole matter of the lones' union, even though the lones are also mentioned in the family message as one family type. The background is that we have chosen a family message that has always focused on the children. That's what this family message is mainly about. Some individuals have stated that they want you to look at their situation as well. Per. Today I have to say that the government has no special plans to go in and look at the lonely situation. It is possible that it will not be up to the Minister of the Family to do so either, it may be just as much for the Minister of Social Affairs. But I'm at least taking the wish further, without me here and now promising that I'll come back to it very quickly. But I'm taking it with me as a recording.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1681	I'm actually going to give honeymoon to the state council that has taken the initiative to equalize couples and cohabitants where there are children. I don't want to call this liberalistic, I think it's just to take note that life is changing, and that the term 'family' is still changing. But that's one thing I'm wondering about, and that's why not the Christian People's Party can join in supporting the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Center Party that says: ‘The government asks the Government to come back with proposals for amendments to the Act on Children and Parents to ensure that children in whom biological father is unknown and who are born with dependants in partnership have the same legal rights as children who are born with dependants in marriage or cohabitation.’ This is simply to protect the children. Think if the mother dies in the shriek. Where, then, does the child stand?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1693	I believe the representative of the Fall knows at least my party's views on this matter. I would like to remind you that the basic principle of the Children's Act is that the public has an obligation to define children's fatherhood, because it is considered a good thing for the children to have a legal relationship with both parents. In recent times, several legislative changes have also been adopted in this room which place a decisive emphasis on the biological link between father and child. Then, of course, I am thinking about the abolition of anonymous sperm donation and the possibility of raising a father's case with a requirement for DNA analysis for anyone who is in doubt about the fathership. In fact, in cases where the partner has children, there may also be a situation where there are fathers who want to actively participate in the child’s growth and also hold legal obligations and rights. It is not in all ‘partner births’ that it is not a father. It's a problem. So different cases need different solutions. I think the solution we've chosen, with the sterilization option, and as the Storting has decided before, is the best for the children, that is, that you have individual assessments in each case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1700	So far the President has lived in the belief that at all births there is a father inside the picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1703	Is it to understand, then, that the Council of State believes that there are no solutions other than legal regulations to ensure children? The progress party actually believes that it's adults, responsible people, and if they want to secure their child, it's actually possible to get married. But I didn't get a response to what the Council of State and the Christian People's Party's new family profile is. Is it that now it's not so careful if you get married, as long as you're a roommate and you're legal?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1710	It is probably almost a repetition, but I have to point out that in the family message we have made a very strong point that marriage is the best framework for children's growth. Likewise, we believe that people today must be allowed to choose their way of life. The reason why we are equalising or giving cohabitants more rights and obligations is that in such circumstances the children should be better legally assured than they are per. today. I think that is a very clear answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27.ana.ud472e1717	The President notes that we are a few minutes ahead of the scheduled time for the morning meeting. There are six speakers subscribed to three-minute speeches, and the President therefore finds it appropriate to cancel the morning meeting now. As a result, the debate continues on substance. 4 a.m. at the evening meeting 18th@item: inlistbox
