ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-14.ana.ud1395e28	Honourable co-representatives! I'm an ex-substitute Harald Ulfert Lied is dead, 75 years old. Harald U. Lied was born on 29 April 1927 in Sarpsborg. He graduated artium in 1945, followed by agricultural schools and forest schools. After various assignments in forestry – both in Sweden and here at home – he became a farmer at Berg farm in Gjøvik in 1959. Harald U. Lied engaged in agricultural and forestry organisations, and he was chairman of both Vardal Farmers and Vardal Forestry Teams. He was also active in local politics – as a member of Gjøvik Municipal Government in the period 1967-1973, as Chairman of Gjøvik Right in 1967 and as Chairman of Oppland Right in the years 1968-1974 and 1976-1978. Harald U. Lied was elected to Stortinget as representative of Uppland at the 1973 Grand Prix, and was re-elected at the 1977 and 1981 elections. Song was in the years 1972-1974 head of the work of an inquiry into the future agricultural policy of the Right. It was therefore quite natural that he should be placed on the Committee on Agriculture and that he should also be given a primary responsibility to design Higher Agricultural Policy principles in practical policies. This was not least the follow-up to the Storting's decision on the income objective in agriculture. Harald U. Lied's time in the Agriculture Committee was also strongly influenced by the dispute over the new concession law, and as a strong and principal defender of property rights, it was natural for him to engage strongly in this dispute. Next to agricultural policy and property law, there was a foreign and security policy that was particularly close to Harald U. Lied's heart. This interest gave him the opportunity to pay more attention when, after the formation of the government of Willoch in October 1981, he became a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. He quickly identified himself as an insightful spokesperson for the Right on important foreign policy issues, not least in European policy. Over many years, as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, he was given the opportunity to demonstrate in practice that even after the 1972 EC vote, there were strong forces in Norway that wanted a close and most binding relationship with Europe. It is hardly any exaggeration to say that Harald U. Lied liked the fish in the water of the Council of Europe, and that his language skills and competence made him a very good ambassador for Norway vis-à-vis delegates from other countries. In the autumn of 1981, Harald U. Lied was elected as a whipper in the Right Magnifying Group and as a member of the Group Board. Through the group board and through the central government of the Right – where he was a member from 1968 to 1978 and in the years 1981 to 1985 – Song also participated in designing the Right Policy at national level. Both the Right and Right Magnification Group have a lot to thank Harald U. Song for. But in our context, it might be more important to stress that everyone in the Stortinget who got the pleasure of working with Harald U. Song, is left with a positive memory of a political gentleman. We remember Harald Ulfert Song for his work in Stortinget and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-14.ana.ud1395e47	Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Ågot Valle on sick leave from 14 January until further notice from the representative No Marte Thorkildsen on sick leave from 14 January until further notice These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Hordaland County, Ragna Flotve, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the agent Ågot Valle's leave, due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For the county of Hordaland: Ragna Flotve and Bjørn Lothe For Vestfold County: Lars Egeland
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-14.ana.ud1395e84	Bjørn Lothe and Lars Aegean are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-14.ana.ud1395e98	Document No 8:6 on recruitment patterns in key district industries, given that the Government is to promote proposals for policy solutions, is very complex. It is not easy to assess a Document No. 8 proposals which are so comprehensive and which are per year. today may be more topical than ever. Unemployment is increasing, industries are flagging out, industry is shutting down. And it's mostly in the districts that there are problems. What the proposers are really seeking, I find somewhat unclear, but if I am to venture out on the track, given that all the proposers are from the Socialist Left Party, there is reason to assume that additional subsidies or support schemes are being sought. The entire Committee, either in majority or minority comments, agrees that the interaction between educational institutions and business needs to be strengthened. We have had a positive development here, but the committee agrees that there is still a lot to go on. But that, of course, assumes that there is also a business life. The Committee here points out that there must be a comprehensive and diverse educational cycle and that we must have a comprehensive business life. The Committee also points to the major challenges facing us in the field of care and care recruitment. There is an overall committee that points out that these challenges should be addressed, and we need to facilitate recruitment. However, the Committee does not go into detail and points out what measures are needed, but we know that the State instrument will be assessed later this year. We also know that the Tax Commission is on the move, so there will be a number of opportunities for the Storting to come in and adopt measures that are long-term and that are accurate in relation to the challenges we face. But I would point out that there should be no reason that neither greatness nor government is defensive in relation to the challenges of Document No. The eight-proposal points to that. There are great possibilities. There are opportunities: in infrastructure – road, broadband development – using domestic gas, additional power generation, upgrading of schools, public downfall, tourism, leisure. All these possibilities are present. It's just a question of whether enlargement and government are willing to use them. Unfortunately, a large majority have relied on the so-called rule of action, which prevents this nation from taking the necessary ceilings. It is also so, I fear, that there is a large majority in this Chamber – as far as I understand it in the government – in order to protect as much as possible of this country. It is clear that all the peace and protection measures that are now coming are, of course, an obstacle to economic development. I am thinking not least of salmon fjords, national parks, etc. It's interesting to note that one of the proposers is from the Nord-Trøndelag, and then I think it's nice to mention that 85 pst. by the North Trøndelags are now at risk of protection and peace. There won't be many opportunities left to drive innovation and entrepreneurship. Then obstacles are put in place, among other things. in relation to the farming side, all of which are concerned to become our future industry. Nord-Trøndelag is one of the states where the potential is great. So we're going to go inside and we're going to make peace with it. But we also have other instruments. Then it is interesting to look at the instruments that have been in use until now – SND, BU funds, etc. There's a lot of people who have said that. I will quote from «Building development – for the benefit of whom?»: ‘Schumpeter gives an interesting description of the contractor. [[1934]] It's the one that creates something new. Entrepreneurs are those people who obtain more information than others, make risky decisions and, through testing and failure, develop new products, new production methods, and organise resource use better. Nystrom points out that: bureaucrats and politicians have problems in designing a business policy that helps the contractor.’ [[1996]] I fully share those points of view. It cannot be that we, as politicians, should adopt jobs. They must be created. We must then preferably be involved in creating jobs that have value creation, which in turn create new jobs through ring-effects. And then I'm in on the tax policy. Now we can see that it's going in the right direction. We have had some tax relief in the last two years, but still there is considerable money to go on. I look forward to a new round of taxes and taxes in relation to the framework conditions for industry, but also for most people, to see if we can give new leadership in relation to what the future will look like, with new jobs, new innovation and new positiveness in the districts – just a revitalisation of our communities. Finally, I would recommend the Committee's proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-14.ana.ud1395e124	It is the first sentence of the setting that is the most important. It determines that it is the people who are the country’s most important resource. The main foundation for the use of this human resource lies in the market. No one other than the market is able to find unemployed people for job vacancies in the same way. It's always been like that, it's always going to be like that. However, the public should assist those who are unable to find job vacancies themselves. This is the case with all public services. The public helps those who need it, not everyone else. The main role of the public in combating the lack of new recruitment is education. Norway will never be able to compete on price – i.e. wages – but will always, hopefully also in the future, be able to compete for skills and innovation. That's why I don't want to go into specific schemes. We know that there will be an action message in March, and it is natural that that message will also address the specific arrangements, if they are needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-14.ana.ud1395e131	Maritime and fisheries industries have problems with labour, especially in rural installations, and there have been a number of coastal places in their daily lives. Therefore, it is important that industries can pick up labour from outside. In order to do the job, Russians, Tamils, Swedes and Finns are needed for the areas where fisheries and aquaculture are strong. And that's how it's going to continue after all the sunmarks. It is simply an important growth industry for which we want to create good conditions. Recruitment to a job in the district may, of course, be problematic. Elder wave will require many to work in health and care, and we are likely to lack free hands. In the first place, young people move to the city and the elderly become older people. As we approach the situation that there are less than two in work per. a retired person, it will be difficult to do so regardless of recruitment measures. That is the law of democracy. Otherwise, the proposers are in the vanguard of reality, as I see it, when they point out that industry and perhaps shops lack labour. I'm afraid there's a mess here. Agriculture is an industry with fewer and fewer food production. The father is that there will be such a lonely and underpaid job that no one takes on the important food production. So some industries are missing workers, and too many workers are missing jobs. The Christian People's Party and the Government will underline the importance of people taking the job that exists while they are looking for the dream job. We have a lack of geographic mobility, and that's probably a reason why the unemployment rate is greater than it needs to be. And then it's important to retrain to a profession where there are job vacancies. An active Aetat, cooperation between school and business, as well as an active regional district policy and, where appropriate, labour immigration, is one of the answers to any recruitment problems. But here we are. I therefore recommend the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-14.ana.ud1395e144	How we make arrangements to recruit important industries and a diverse business life is very important. The speaker from the Right, Peter Gitmark, was up here and said that it is the market that can solve this best, and obviously can solve this almost alone. SV does not agree with that, but I would like to address some of the arguments put forward by the representative Gitmark, because there are a number of assumptions that must underlie the functioning of the market. Among other things, there must be full information for all market participants so that they know what to do with them. And one of the main criticisms that the minority have led in this matter is that, for example. The school isn't good enough for that. The school today is not good enough to inform all students about what kind of business opportunities exist, not even in the neighbourhood. There's too little money in school for example. to be able to take a trip to the nearest enterprise, to visit several companies regularly, so that you can get a good idea of what the opportunities actually are. I have dared to claim that many young people today know much more about job opportunities and what is happening on the other side of the globe than about their home. There's nothing wrong with knowing a lot about the world, but it's going to be wrong if we don't know anything about our own country and the possibilities that are there. Therefore, we believe that we need to have a critical look at how the school works both when it comes to providing information about professional opportunities, and also when it comes to the job of creating the good entrepreneurs. There's a lot left. There you have to teach other ways than what you do today. You have to use methods that there is not enough room in the Norwegian school to be able to use today. The second part of this is that it has to be equal to availability if the market is to work. This is not the case in all areas today. The representative of Apelthun Seele, who was up here, said that there was no mobility in the Norwegian labour market. Yes, maybe it is, but maybe it also depends on some aspects of life that we also have to take into account, namely belonging and such things. But it's actually also about e.g. housing prices. It's awfully expensive to move somewhere, and somewhere else you don't get to sell your house until it's worth it once. Then it's not that simple. But also that part, to say it like that, is important to make this society go like a smurf. That's the way it's left to the market, and then it's going to be a huge economic impact for the individual who has to be included in this. SV is afraid that in the debate on labour market problems, we are ignoring the biggest challenge we have in Norway today, namely to be able to recruit enough people for the reforms that we in the Stortinget and the Government have adopted. It's a huge challenge to get it done. It will take all the available capacity in the labour market in the coming years if we're going to manage to recruit people for these reforms. This means that we need to send some other signals to young people today than to shrink the public sector. What makes young people choose a profession is that they get a signal that they will be there in the future. If every year young people get signals that the public sector is too big, there are too many people working there, agriculture is too hard, there we shouldn't work, primary industries are immature and old-fashioned, where we shouldn't work, then it's clear that they think about – and think about something else. If we want young people to choose these industries, which are important for the country, if we want young people to live in District Norway, we have to give some signals that the future is also there. And we have to make sure it's in place. When it comes to the public sector and to manning the health, care, kindergarten and school sectors, we actually have opportunities to do so, both through the educational capacity and through the fact that those who work there do not work well, by becoming long-term leaders that allow those who are going to hire them to do so. If we're going to be able to recruit some of those who are now unemployed for the job vacancies, it's still the case that most of the unemployed have low education and skills. This means that Aetat has an important job to help them acquire the necessary skills. In fact, an increase in the level of labour market measures can be an appropriate instrument even now. It is true that unemployment in some other parts of the labour market has been increasing. But there are, however, many fewer of those who are unemployed than of those with low competence. For example, for those who are now unemployed in the IT industry, it may actually be possible that some of them can help the Norwegian school to get up to date on information technology, where there is much missing. This would be good for the country; it would be good for fewer unemployed. In the construction sector, it is similar. Last week we had a spontaneous question hour that was mostly about unemployment. I have to say that I was a little sorry for the ironic answer I received from the Minister of Labour when I challenged whether it could not be possible to use, for example. some of these construction works for a necessary upgrading of the school – as we know is needed. Because I think if they can build a mall, they might also be competent to build a school. Or these new ones that are now available in the IT industry could, for example: used for the upgrading of IT within the school facility as we know it is necessary. To say that for those who are now unemployed — those with a high level of competence — a small additional build-up of skills or some such grip would be totally wasted and completely meaningless, I do not think there is any good approach. I think that we must now try both to solve these important problems and to get those who are unemployed into the business as soon as possible. So a very small visit to the representative Apelthun Seele, who said agriculture. I said a little bit about it instead, that the signals may not have been that the great future is there. A signal that has been given to agriculture recently has been to bet on the full-time farmer. In my view, it means a life of 30 years alone on the tractor. This is why SV is much more in line with the fact that the combined use has a great advantage, precisely because it can be combined with another job. You can, for example: be a teacher, accountant or whatever it may be, alongside and have a working community and a social community. I think that for a lot of young people who could imagine this profession, there's a much more tempting future than being all by themselves, basically, their entire professional life, as many people in agriculture would be if you thought that it was just the full-time farmer you're going to bet on. Moreover, there is no good strategy for rural areas, because it is where farms are small. It will actually also be necessary for economic reasons to combine it with other things in order for it to go at all. I think you have to think a little bit through how to invest in many industries, if we are to achieve some goals in the areas that this proposal has highlighted. Then we cannot do what the representatives of the Government clearly do, bet on the market forces. Then we're going to have very big turns. We don't want to be able to recruit people for some very important jobs, and we don't want to be able to trigger the human resources that it looks like we all agree on is the largest national value we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-14.ana.ud1395e165	I agree with the representative Gitmark that the main wording of the vote is the recognition that ‘people are the most important resource in a country’. It's a confession that we don't always take inwards, in the sense that we talk a lot about our oil wealth and other elements, while that's the knowledge that each of us and we together possess, which is the crucial resource for developing the country. Then I think there is a need for an important nuance in relation to Gitmark. He put it as if the main question here is how to find people to bemoan job vacancies. Of course, it is an important challenge, as it is always important to develop skills and to update knowledge, so that those who are unemployed are qualified. But I think the issue raised in the proposal is, first of all, based on a more fundamental challenge. We have a development in the value chain where it has mainly become so that in the districts raw materials are extracted and first processed, while jobs requiring higher skills are more closely related to the markets. The educational community means that we want young people from all over the country, including from the districts, to be educated. They find the jobs they find interesting, closer to the market. They apply for jobs where they get to use their skills, and they see them as exciting. At the same time, I'm concerned with the next dilemma, that companies that are going to establish themselves want to do what they already have skills. That's why it gets a self-strengthening effect. This is one of the main regional policy challenges we face. It underlines the need to develop skills-intensive jobs in the districts, such as young people living in the districts, sees as interesting, and uses their knowledge. So I think it's also another important element, and it's related to attitudes. We see that attitudes, including: in the case of parents and the environment, in many respects based on traditional perceptions of what an industry implies. This means warning young people against entering, for example: the fishing industry. There is a known problem in the area I come from, that parents warn their children against going both in the fishing boat and into the fishing industry. That's why I think it's important to realize that there's a difference between the fishing industry in the past, where you had to wash your boots with water to keep the heat, and today's biotechnology competence industry, which is something quite different. I think it is important to get more accurate information about the opportunities available in the different district industries. That is why I think it was unfortunate that the Government and the Advance Party in the budgetary agreement, for example. entered in order to remove the subsidy to the Fisheries Competence Centre. I believe that the potential of knowledge of business and jobs is an important element. The second element on which many people have been involved, including the representative Karin Andersen, is the need for better contact between school and working life – and the working life in the neighbourhoods – for understanding what opportunities are actually there, in the context of interesting jobs that exist in today's district industries, but also the need for better contact to stimulate establishment, where establishing skills are developed in schools, for example. through the development of apprenticeships, as is now the case in many places. I assume that the Government of the various large-scale communications relating to the district industries concerned, as well as in the communication on district policy and in other communications relating to the labour market, highlights the recruitment issues we are facing. In my previous activity related to the fishing industry, there was a great deal of focus on the challenges of having neither a good enough search for education related to this important industry, nor a great enough interest from the youth to enter into an industry that we all believe should be one of the supporting industries in the extension of the oil industry that we know will gradually be phased out. That is why this is an important challenge. I think it requires a lot of different measures. I assume that the government is appropriately lighting it in the documents that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-14.ana.ud1395e182	The central party wants to decentralize power, capital and construction. We think that's how we can best use the rich natural resources that our country has, and we also think that's how the human resources can best be used. We mean SV here has taken an important initiative. It is necessary to focus on recruitment for a lack of jobs in District Norway. We agree with what SV points out in its proposal, that low recruitment of young people in the long term will lead to less innovation, development and dynamism in industries. Therefore, it is particularly important to identify different causes of missing recruitment in the different industries and to identify measures that can address these challenges. The ministry has submitted a comprehensive comment on this – a comment that demonstrates that the reasons for the pattern of construction are as it is, and that it seems to be going in a centralised direction, are complicated. I find reason to focus on a statement from the department where it is said that there seems to be an overcapacity in some of the most dominant district industries. From my point of view, I would say that when agriculture and fishing there are mentioned, one must be able to ask whether it is the overcapacity that is the point, or whether it is actually such that there would be room for more if there had been other signals, if there had been another commitment to the possibilities that are leading. It is true that if you want to undermine the meaning of an industry, you run a systematic, insecure, holding-up statement, which creates doubts as to whether this is really an industry to bet on in the future. I would wish that one of the governments would take an initiative in a completely different way to create persuasion and thus optimism. The majority have pointed to the decisive role of municipalities in securing more young diverse jobs. There can be no doubt that local authorities have their own possibilities here, both the resources they have to invest in schools, the opportunities provided by local food and drink funds, and by taking the initiative of different jobs themselves, are important. When it comes to the continuing schooling, it is obvious that there is a continuing school with a wide range of facilities within the region in which each individual grows, also has an impact on the relationship that many people feel, and it is important for the local knowledge that one gets to the local business community and the opportunities that lie there. I think it's right, as Andersen and Schjøtt-Pedersen have pointed out, that giving both the basic ball and the continuing school the possibility of close contact with local business is an important tool in raising awareness among young people. Let me point out the possibilities that lie within the projects called 'Districtive School'. Here, there are now a number of student companies around the world where students have both had the opportunity to try out different settings within a company and the possibility of getting in close contact with different aspects of local business. And it is actually that in some schools this has been happening for so long that some elephants can now be left in the tenancy settings and within the profession that they had not previously assessed. From my own area, the rock troll from Årdal has been one example of a local resource that has been exploited, that has actually created a new enterprise, and that has given many young people the opportunity to use aspects of themselves that they already had no access to within the ordinary school system. When it comes to investing in entrepreneurship in the school, I hope that the tool message will highlight exactly this contact that should be there, and that it will underline how to stimulate the municipalities to further invest in it. Per Sandberg has pointed to the great possibilities that lie before travel, before broadband and before new technology. I share his view of the tragic fact that, in both the year's budget and more in the longer term, we should not be willing to find room to strengthen the infrastructure and contribute to government involvement, so that access to broadband can be achieved too much more. This is a typical example of a lack of market power, as the government party seems to want to underline. It is necessary in the message that is now to come, and in other big documents, that the Government is creative. It's not always the big funds to go to. Let me remind you what one has done within the Norwegian Women's Bank. So I also want this big message to include concrete, positive examples that can be carried out to other areas. So, of course, this debate and setting in this case have also shown that there are different lines in this room in relation to what this is going to do, but nevertheless: let's also be aware of the positive possibilities that can lie here, the possibilities that may be available to multiple numbers to ensure more young real options to bus themselves in District Norway. It's best for District Norway, well, but it's actually also best for the largest press areas in our country that we take advantage of the opportunities in our districts in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-14.ana.ud1395e205	In this private proposal, SV asks the Government to present a case on why young people are not able to recruit for work in industry, health, care, shops, agriculture and fisheries. Firstly, there is still a recent recruitment in these professions. It's hardly as bad as SV makes it here. Secondly, we have a labour market where people are free to choose education and work based on the demand and needs of industry and the labour market. And the market itself is capable of regulating and increasing recruitment in the various industries where there is a need for more labour. Normally, therefore, an industry with increasing demand in a flexible and well-functioning labour market will attract the necessary labour force, by increasing the level of wages and salaries, among other things. economically attractive to apply for a job or train for this profession. There should be no political attempt at directing increased recruitment to specific industries if the industries do not meet sufficient demand in society or in the market. The consequences of the management of labour by political thinking and organisation rather than by market and demand will result in the inefficient use of labour resources. We cannot afford that as a nation, at a time when labour shortages can become a future challenge if too many are employed in subsidized or sheltered industries or the public sector. Most of the workforce must be used where its efforts to produce goods and services meet clear market needs for consumers and society are needed. The labour force should not be politically directed to work, for example: in agriculture, in order to meet the desired rural policy objectives. This represents a poor exploitation of our labour force. The labour force will continuously seek out the sectors and professions where demand growth and new needs are emerging, because an increasing wage level will make it attractive to seek employment there. In the future, Norway will not be able to manage today’s regional policy, which unnecessaryly binds up labour in certain industries that are politically desirable but are too productive and in spite of the demand and needs of society. The point is that we need to look at the overall efficiency of the Norwegian labour force resource. There is a need to do something useful in the workplace as much as possible, which generates profits. As a nation, we need to maintain a sufficiently high value creation and productivity and have a dynamic business and work life that can rapidly change and adapt to new needs and changing consumption patterns in society. So we cannot maintain too many industries and jobs that do not meet demand. It will create an inefficiency in value creation and production that is destructive to our long-term public and private well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-14.ana.ud1395e218	The issue addressed in Document No. The 8 proposal is an important issue. There has been an interesting debate, on the contrary, more a debate that has highlighted different aspects of the problem complex than a debate that has polarised the issue. I think that is a pleasure, because it is a problem that we have to take inwards and that is important, and that concerns not just one policy area. I want to highlight two of the basic problems in particular. One is the problem raised by Schjøtt-Pedersen, that we have a dilemma with regard to district industries, that we have wanted to provide district youth with equal education and as good opportunities for development as the youth in central districts, while still having a structure in the business community in the districts, which means that we do not have the same demand for people with high skills there as we do in central areas. It's a very important dimension in the problem. The only way to solve this problem is to strengthen skills-based business even in the districts. The second basic problem, which we should not lose sight of here, is that our main problem is labour shortage. Even though we have too much time off at the moment, both in the short term and in the longer term, our main problem is that we lack people. For this reason, general economic policy is also central to the possibilities of recruiting businesses and businesses and the public sector in the districts. We know that the part of the Norwegian economy that suffers most from an expansionary financial policy is precisely the industry in the districts. We've been shown that over the last year. This means that the rule of action may still be the most important district policy instrument we have in the short and medium term. But I'm not saying this to polish against the other posts that have been held. The Government takes note of the important points underlined by representatives of all parties. The government takes these with it and is aware of these issues in relation to both education policy, industrial policy, district policy and labour market policy, and comes back to the Stortinge on these issues, in connection with our proposals in all these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-14.ana.ud1395e229	I'll try not to provoke anyone, so that the debate is not prolonged that much. But I would like to add a few comments to what has been said, in relation to Apelthun Seele and the State Council of the like, which is still very concerned with labour immigration. First of all, what the representative Apelthun Seele says. We need Tamils, we need Somalis, we need Russians, and we even need Swedishs, says the representative. Yes, we have free Tamils, we have free Somalis, we have free Russians, and we have free Swedishs who today raise social security in Norway. These can be recruited into the labour market to a greater extent. Then we also succeed with the other side of the problem – the integration side. Nor can I deny that we may need labour in the long term. We're not going to create any barriers here. But we also have to look at the other side of this. It may be, as others have said in the debate today, that sooner or later Norwegian youth find it timely to challenge the international labour market, especially in the EEA territory, and seek to withdraw from the Norwegian labour market. We had a big look – I think it was in Dagbladet on 23 December – that showed how Norwegian workers viewed the EEA as a labour market. In fact, it was only 450 pieces that in 2002 had challenged that market. We might experience that we are getting greater geographical mobility also internationally in relation to what we have nationally, because it is deficient. I fully agree with the representative of Apelthun Seele. I also think we have to look at this with care and care. We know that there are over 500,000 people working part-time. 80 pst. Of them, women, and most people actually want to work more. Here, forecasts show that it is everything from 10,000 to 15,000 yearly works to care and care. I also think, like the Council of State, that this debate has been groundless. Many things have been taken up, and I hope, like the Council of State, that this will be seen when the whole apparatus is going to be assessed. I also hope that the Council of State will include the challenges of EU enlargement, that we in Norway may then experience a different kind of access to labour market and labour than we can dream of today, that the Balkans and other countries become members of the EU and then have free access to the Norwegian labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-14.ana.ud1395e242	I felt the need to comment on something that Karin Andersen said when she pointed out to my chosen people that we have limited geographical mobility. That's what I said, and the representative Karin Andersen said, but at the same time it's half a truth. Moving currents are going on stream, unfortunately, from districts to cities and towns, often from the job you don't want, and to very expensive building costs and traffic. Why is that so? There's certainly a legion to explain, but maybe advertising, movies and all of our media culture glorify the lives of the cities so that the young people move. Will future fisherman also have room for the fisherman? Yeah, I think so. But the freedom to possess and manage nature and values must increase. Then I believe and hope that even the peasantry can become more attractive to the youth. And then to the representative Per Sandberg. He says we have unemployed foreigners who should be recruited to industries that need labour. Of course we do, and of course we agree on that! The last word is not spoken. A lot more can be done, we're agreed on, and it can also be required to achieve those goals. I agree that this has been a good debate, and I agree that we have a task to evaluate District Norway. There is the export-right industry, which Norway cannot manage without, and there are also Norway's natural resources, Norway's tax chest – and there is a future, you ask me!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-14.ana.ud1395e254	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-14.ana.ud1395e262	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-14.ana.ud1395e287	There is no record.
