ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e28	From His Majesty King Harald the Stortinget has received the following message: «It is with great pleasure I announce that our daughter Princess Martha Louise and our son-in-law Ari Behn on April 29, 2003 at 2.30 p.m. 20.10. Got a daughter. Her name is Maud Angelica Behn. Harald R’» This communication shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The stork congratulates Princess Märtha Louise and Mr. Ari Behn on the hottest. At the same time, we send our congratulations to the royal family. The representatives of Thore A. Nistad and Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e50	On behalf of the major representatives of Øystein Hedstrøm, Per Sandberg, Lodve Solholm, Øyvind Korsberg and myself, I would like to propose a derogation from the requirement to hold a food fish concession for the production of eggs from mature salmon and rainbow trout.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e55	The representative of Gjermund Hagesetter will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e58	On behalf of the representatives of Siv Jensen, Per Sandberg, Per Erik Monsen and myself, I would like to suggest that some of the company's taxes should apply to municipalities where the company is established.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e63	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e86	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik County Council Svein Ludvigsen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e102	I have a question for the Prime Minister. The current government has put great emphasis on reducing taxes. There is no other purpose it has chosen to spend more money for, than a lower tax. It's always nice to reduce taxes. The Labour Party has also voted for something, including: lower investment taxes and lower taxes on ordinary and lower employee income. But there are two problems with what the government is now doing. One is that it is systematic to give the most relief to those who already have the most, and the other is that the size and the amount, $31 billion in lower taxes, goes beyond other important tasks. Retirement is cut to the underprivileged, increased excesses are introduced, the daily allowance for the unemployed is reduced, and historically little is granted in terms of upgrading school and care for the elderly in relation to the additions we have usually had, among others. in the local economy. That means that this goes beyond other purposes. There are also many in the Christian People's Party, while the Minister of Finance promises that the tax promises will stand firm. My question is, are the tax promises from the Sem declaration confirmed?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e111	Of course, all the objectives outlined in the Sem Declaration are firm, but the pace of their implementation needs to be adapted to economic development and the budgetary situation. If you look at the adopted budget for the current year, it's not right that most of it goes to those who have the most of it. Most of it has gone to Norwegian farms. ==References== 4/5 of the reliefs in taxes and charges in the last budget were to facilitate the situation for Norwegian business. Had we not done this, the situation for jobs and employment would have been even more difficult than it is. Depreciation rates have been improved, the investment tax has been removed, the air passenger charge has been removed, and opportunities have been provided for all Norwegian companies to obtain tax credits for research and development provisions, which are very important for creating and securing jobs. So tax reliefs have been clear and focused primarily on securing jobs that could otherwise be exposed. But otherwise, we register that the Workers' Party together with, among other things, The Progress Party is in favour of extending a tax relief scheme to those who have the most in the past, namely those who are so lucky to have free childcare space paid by their employer, and due to the marginal tax – mostly to those who have the most in the past. The government seems to be out of date.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e120	Firstly, the tax exemption scheme for kindergartens is precisely an extension of a scheme introduced by the government of Syse and confirmed by the government of Bondevik, and is exactly the same as that introduced by the Bondevik government for free PCs and free health insurance. So it's a little strange that you have a very different principle approach to tax exemptions for employer-paid benefits for kindergartens than you have for health insurance or PCs. Secondly, there is no doubt that the tax reliefs from this Government have gone most to those who have the most from before. It is explicitly documented in the Treasury's own calculations. And what Bondevik calls tax relief to businesses, is really tax relief to the richest. The removal of share taxes, reductions in option taxes are called reductions in corporate taxes, but are reductions to those people who have the most money from before in Norway. And it's going to affect pensioners and other people who have little.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e127	It is indisputable that the Workers' Party has agreed with the Progress Party on tax exemptions for employer-paid kindergartens will give the most to those who have the most in the past. I am aware that there is a ambiguity in two documents on this matter, what is in the child care agreement itself and what is in the big paper, namely the position of the financial committee. The last one points to a massive expansion that may amount to billions, but this is well now the subject of negotiations in the Storting, I hope. I hope at least this can be severely limited, so that the reliefs to those who have the most already become very large. In the case of the tax forms mentioned by the representative Stoltenberg, both the property tax and the option tax are, in fact, important for the formation of capital for the enterprises and thus for job security. So I maintain that 4/5 of the tax breaks that were given in the last budget are going to secure employment. We should be happy about that, otherwise that could be more difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e134	There will be follow-up questions – Hill-Marta Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e137	When the leader of the Christian People's Party has been out there suggesting that it may be important to prioritize welfare rather than further tax relief, I assume that there is a bottom line in the fact that more than half of the municipalities today are cutting school, that almost half of the boys in the care of the elderly and that one in four municipalities have to cut into the kindergarten sector. I fully share the concern of the Christian People's Party for the situation in the municipal sector, as the party leader Svarstad Haugland has expressed it. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister think that it is possible to both correct the hopeless situation of the elderly and the school around the municipalities, and at the same time be able to meet additional tax commitments given by the Government to the voters?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e144	The co-operation management has shown that it is possible to combine increased efforts in the welfare systems with relief in tax and tax burden. Now it's not just the cooperative government that's promised tax relief. In the so-called security, as the Workers' Party presented before the last election, an adjustment to the entry point of the top tax was promised each year in line with the price and salary developments. It has been broken by the Labour Party in its last draft budget. So you've broken an election vow. We shall try to satisfy as far as the economic situation and the budgetary situation are concerned. The welfare of the municipalities will not only prioritise the Christian People's Party, but the entire Cooperative Government, in the budgets ahead. We expressed that, both Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, at the budgetary conference we had at Thorbjørnrud a few weeks ago. It's going to be a priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e152	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e155	It is difficult to understand the Prime Minister in any other way than that this means that the tax commitments given will not be followed up during this term and in the government budget for the autumn. For the Prime Minister is now very clear when he says that this needs to be adapted to the economic situation. I believe the Prime Minister and I can very quickly agree that the situation is that Norwegian municipalities are struggling more than they have in many, many years. The requirement from the voters is that important welfare reforms should be carried out both and not least implemented. We have 100,000 unemployed in Norway who lack a job to go to, and Norwegian companies are unfortunately flagging out at a greater pace than in a long time. This means that there are completely different approaches to now, rather than giving great tax relief, for which the Sem statement has been passed on to the Right. I would like a confirmation from the Prime Minister that this is a correct understanding of what he is saying. If this is to be adapted to the economic situation, there is no scope for tax relief in the future. Instead, priority should be given to welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e164	I cannot now stand here and publish the state budget to be presented at the beginning of October, also of course for the reason that the government has not finished it at this time, as one has never done in April. However, I maintain that the objectives of the Sem Declaration are firm, but the pace of implementation needs to be adapted to the economic situation and the budgetary situation. And this is the goal for four years, not for two or three. Otherwise, I agree with the representative, Mr Djupedal, that both welfare through the municipalities and not least the fight against unemployment must now be given priority. This will also be emphasised by the Government in the context of the revised national budget. And that means, among other things, that we have to maintain a responsible financial framework so that we can lay the basis for further reductions in interest and interest rates. It says, among other things: The LO leader in an interview today is the most important in the fight against unemployment. The government will pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e171	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e174	During the previous ageing period, a private proposal, together with Valgerd Svarstad Haugland and Per-Kristian Foss, signed a tax on health insurance paid to employers. The Progress Party has the same principle as regards tax exemptions for employer-paid kindergartens. My question to the Prime Minister is after the Government has now completed what was in Document No. The 8th proposal on tax exemptions for health insurance paid by employers: why is it more social in the prime minister's view to provide free health through such health insurance than to provide free childcare through employer-paid childcare facilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e181	Firstly, what we have agreed on in terms of health costs is important because it can bring a worker back to work faster. It is therefore very important for the company and its competitiveness. There's a special reason you don't have for kindergartens. Secondly, because objective No. 1 in the case of kindergarten, must be full coverage, i.e. space for anyone who wants it. If we are to implement this proposal, with the broad understanding of the employer’s paid kindergarten space on the basis of which the Progress Party is based, it may cost between NOK 1 and 2 billion. It must then be much more sensible to use this money to build kindergartens. There may be quite a number of new kindergartens for that amount. Unfortunately, the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party have also agreed to this in the financial position, as it states that this should apply to any employer-paid nursery place, i.e. not only farmyards. There is an extended understanding of this which the Workers' Party has subsequently distanced from, fortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e186	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e189	In various speeches in the media and newspapers over the past few weeks, the Prime Minister, in the context of pre-postage checks on the revised national budget, has put himself on the same line as Prime Minister Kåre Willoch did in the spring of 1986. The Prime Minister has therefore tried to maximise the crisis before the revision has been presented. My question is why the Prime Minister has found it reasonable to create the position that there could be a government crisis in the context of revision. I would also like to ask whether the Prime Minister agrees that when the Storting is going to revise the budget, it will be done in the light of the economic situation in the country in May and June, not as it was last November. The situation is drastically different from what was foreseen in the budget in November, because we have 20 000 more unemployed, and many arrows are pointing downwards. There have been changes in interest rates, and that may be happening today. Does the Prime Minister agree that, in principle, the situation in May-June will be the basis for the revision of the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e196	The answer to the last question is yes. Of course, we update all economic developments and take them into account when revising the State budget. What's important is that the audit becomes so that we can lay the foundation for new reductions in interest rates and interest rates. It is the most important thing in the fight against unemployment. The co-operation administration puts the fight against unemployment first. We will fight for jobs, for employment. Unfortunately, we have alarming figures for unemployment. We have to be prepared for them to rise. That is why this must be a priority. There is a broad consensus about what the LO leader says in an interview in the Newspaper today, that getting interest rates and rates down further is the most important thing in the fight against unemployment. It is, therefore, in the case of further interest rate reductions that we are initially going to take out the available capacity of the economy, not by detonating responsible budgetary frameworks, which, on the contrary, can stop the fall in interest rates and destroy the positive developments that are taking place in that area. This is what I have had to say about in the public debate, so that everyone should be aware of the government's priority. Within these frameworks, the Co-operation Board has been set up to negotiate with the opposition in the United Kingdom in order to bring the revised national budget into port within a responsible framework that can contribute to interest rate reduction and a reduction in the exchange rate, thus creating and securing jobs. These responsible frameworks must be maintained. It must be an opportunity for a Prime Minister to tell us about it in the public debate, without, for his part, being a crisis maximisation. I have also registered a former Prime Minister who complained that he did not say so in time. I have chosen to say from.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e205	Does the last prime minister now say that he is anxious that an opposition party today will push the government in terms of the framework, as Kjell Magne Bondevik pushed Thorbjørn Jagland a few years ago? Is he afraid that someone should be irresponsible, as the Christian People's Party was when they pressed forward unreasonable additions during the revision? I am pleased that the Prime Minister states that there should be a responsible framework. It needs to be seen in the context of the situation in the country in May and June. It is clear that a responsible framework in May to June, with 20,000 more unemployed than intended, means a significant change in relation to what was a responsible framework in November. Does the Prime Minister agree that there must be a responsible framework also in relation to the labour market situation? This must include, inter alia: make sense to start up some construction activities which may bring back to work construction workers who are currently available. This may result in increased appropriations that are reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e212	Yes, it is responsible in relation to today's situation I am concerned about. The government has already announced that, in the context of the revised national budget, we will also propose a number of measures that could counteract short-term unemployment. We have said that, among other things: may be relevant, as the representative of Hagen was now involved, to stimulate the construction activities as part of this. But we have to do that within responsible frameworks that we feel secure can contribute to the continued reduction of interest rates. If we stop it, we've ruined a lot in the fight against unemployment. I'm not worried that someone would act like I did in the spring of 1997. But what I'm worried about is that we can get into a situation where a large number of people adopt large additions without having a majority for the containment. That's the situation I have to warn against. In the budgets that I myself have contributed to, there has been a balance between revenue and expenditure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e220	There will be three follow-up questions – first Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e223	It's true that interest rates are falling, but interest rates are now falling because unemployment is rising, and because electricity prices are very high. The Labour Party will never help to use increasing unemployment as an instrument of economic policy. The main challenge is to ensure that we have low interest rates, that we guarantee the competitiveness of industry, that we have high employment and, at the same time, low unemployment, not that there is increasing unemployment and a decline in the economy, which leads to a fall in interest rates. Because the government reacted too late in the fight against unemployment, the problem is that we are approaching 100,000 unemployed and that the measures that are now coming are too weak and too small. Of course, the working party will only agree to vote for responsible arrangements. We've presented that every single time. But we cannot be forced to vote against proposals we are in favour of, to save a government we are against. What I think is unfortunate is that this government, long before matters have come to Stortinget, has scolded up the mood in a strange way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e228	Interest does not go down because unemployment is rising. In fact, here I choose to listen more to him who sets the interest rate, the head of the Bank of Norway. In his year, he was aware that the government's tight fiscal policy has contributed to the reduction of interest rates. Now we've had three of them. The interest rate is 1⁄2 pst. lower than when Stoltenberg was Prime Minister. In his time, interest went only one way, namely upward. We've got it down, and we hope we'll help get it down further, which is crucial in the fight against unemployment. The co-operation administration will not use unemployment as an instrument, just as the Workers' Party says they will not use unemployment as an instrument. There is nothing specific for the Workers' Party. That is also our policy. But precisely because we want to fight unemployment, which we have to fear can also be even higher than today, we now have to make sure that we get the interest rate and the dollar down further. I expect Stoltenberg to agree with his party member Gerd Liv Valla, who says it is the most important thing in the fight against unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e235	The president had overlooked that Kristin Halvorsen had also drawn himself to a follow-up question, so there are four follow-up questions. Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e240	One of the main reasons why the Government continues to have a so-called tight budget is that the government is now losing tax revenue. But it might be wise for the Government to differentiate why tax revenue is now falling. It may be primarily because more jobs are lost, more companies have to give up, etc. In the short and long term, it might be sensible for economic policies to stimulate growth in the economy, among other things. through fiscal policy, which will help to increase investment in new and more stable jobs. It is not necessarily that the best medicine in the economic development we are now in is to cover lost tax and tax infects through an even tighter budget. It surprises me that the government continues to doubt this idea, because it really means that there is an increase in unemployment that should be the basis for getting lower interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e247	I agree that in certain situations tax relief can be used to stimulate the economy and combat unemployment. But now we have given significant tax relief – by some we are criticized for having given too much – and we have no plans in the revision of the budget to further increase on that point. But we are willing to see lost tax revenue in relation to what was budgeted, in relation to the cyclical situation. Therefore, it is not certain that it will be correct, as Siv Jensen predicted in advance, that we are further tightening the budget to cover all the tax revenue lost, which is due to the run-up to the economic situation. We're gonna...
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e252	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e255	The freedom occupies people in this room. They want an active government holding in the fight against unemployment. I am aware that the Government now has to balance the economic situation, but then it also has to show some of the choices you have to make, for example. between tax relief and local welfare. One has to deal with the fact that a combined industry is now calling for long-term sustainability and that people are calling for a strengthening of local welfare. I feel that the Prime Minister is in the throat of the opposition every time, now the last time again today about tax exemptions related to kindergartens. My question is: what will a minority government represented by the Prime Minister contribute to trying to reach broad settlements, among others. on the issue of unemployment, industrial policy and local welfare, and, for that matter, on the issue of childcare? People expect that a government that does not sit by a majority in this room, actually also seams contribute something to achieve good settlement on behalf of the problems that the country is struggling with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e264	As far as kindergarten is concerned, we have contributed by providing a message, which we were asked to provide – we have presented impact assessments of the conciliation between the four parties in Stortinget, we have presented what we think is best for full orphanage coverage and lower prices, which is our goal – and then we are willing to negotiate with the opposition parties on that basis. It is clear that our parties in Stortinget will be equipped with negotiating mandates to find the best solution on this basis. I hope that the opposition has not stuck to what one wrote in the financial position in terms of tax relief for those who have the most from before, to free kindergarten, but that one can at least discuss the design of it, so that it does not get too much unfortunate effects. Otherwise, it's quite right that the representative Arnstad says, long-term business is important. In particular, long-term care is important to reduce interest rates and the exchange rate, all of which are agreed upon, is the most important in the fight against unemployment. We will contribute to this by negotiating with the opposition on the revised national budget, and the welfare of municipalities will be prioritised, not least when we present the municipal economic proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e273	Kristin Halvorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e276	I am amazed at the way the Prime Minister shows muscles to the staging opposition. The Barnhagen Agreement was adopted last year in connection with the revised national budget, and at that time the Prime Minister assured us of several times in Stortinget – from which we have reported – that the Government was of course going to follow up the decisions taken by the Stortinget. Isn't it just that it was if the government wasn't prepared to follow up this kindergarten agreement, that the Prime Minister should put his foot down, and not now? Then I also marvel at the tone the Prime Minister takes in relation to the opposition, because it now seems as if the challenge goes as much to all the opposition parties in relation to economic policy. But the truth is that the Government has made a budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, and it is the Progress Party which, together with the government parties, is behind the economic policy such as that. Municipality-Norway is struggling. As far as I remember from this budget agreement, there were also a number of points where the Government was to come back and sign out in relation to the Progress Party in the context of the revised national budget. Is it the case that the Government is going to go first to the Progress Party when it is going to get a majority for revision?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e284	As far as the nursery agreement is concerned, we were asked by the four opposition parties to submit a message where we were to investigate some of the issues, and then it was natural that we did. I haven't talked about putting my foot down or pointing to the situation in the nursery. It's a misunderstanding. What I have said is that we have to say about the financially responsible framework in relation to the revised national budget. We are willing to negotiate the kindergarten message, and the reason why it might be wise to wait until now before a conclusion is reached on these issues is that there is a difference between what is in the financial position on tax exemptions for the employer-paid kindergarten and what is in the childcare contract itself. After all, the working party has established an understanding different from that of SV. So this should give room for negotiation. When it comes to revision, it's natural that we first talk to those with whom we adopted the budget, that is. The Party of Advancement Subsidy. But they have expressed a view of the limits of this budget, which means that we might have to talk to other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e291	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e294	I actually have a number of foreign policy issues that I could well imagine dealing with the Prime Minister. With regard to the situation in Iraq, Norway has been investigated if we want to remain in so-called stabilisation forces. However, this is a matter that I expect will be presented to the Stortinget, if the government is going to sniff at it at all. I don't think it's natural that a country that opposed a war, along with an occupying power, should make itself available to participate – after a war that you don't think has been based on international law. Therefore, instead, I would have liked to focus my attention on the views of the government parties on Norwegian EU membership, because Minister of Foreign Affairs Petersen, who is also the Right-leader, said at Højre's national meeting this weekend that the Right is the only party in Norway with a clear positive view on Norwegian membership of the EU – Norway must become a member as soon as possible. If the President of the Right, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, insists on this, it means that the Government of Bondevik is facing a swift departure. What is the Prime Minister's comment on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e305	Only when it comes to Iraq, since Kristin Halvorsen was inside it. Of course, we will come to the Storting and its consultative bodies in the usual way once a decision has been reached on the question of participation in the stabilisation force. What we have already made quite clear to those who have addressed us about this is that we want a UN connection. In any case, what Norway may be required to contribute must comply with international law – in conformity with international law, as it is often called in English at this point. When it comes to EU membership, we know that it splits the Stortinget. There have been differing views in most governments we have had in modern times, in fact within one party governments, and I understand that there are also strongly divided views of that in the Socialist Left Party. I think that's right, we have to live with that. We have clarified during the Sem negotiations that if this matter is put on the agenda, at the forefront in the sense that a government party takes up proposals to change Norway's relationship with the EU, it is the basis for cooperation above. However, the President of the Right, who is also Minister for Foreign Affairs, has also made it clear that he does not consider it realistic during this period of enlargement. It's probably because of the situation in this room, that there are other parties that need to be involved in this case and get a right majority to start this process. They are not prepared to do so – first and foremost, the Workers' Party – and that is the case. Of course, this cannot prevent the parties from taking part in a European debate and highlighting their views, for which we have given each other freedom. That is why this government is working unrelentingly, and I expect that the matter will not be on the agenda for this big period.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e312	It is a little funny to hear the Prime Minister’s analysis of what Right means by ‘as soon as possible’, because when Right says at their national meeting that it is important to them that Norway becomes a member of the EU as soon as possible, while the Prime Minister expects that it means that there are no initiatives in relation to the Government or the Stortinget, it seems that the Right flags a European position that they have not intended to follow up. But it is obvious that at the moment that the Right would actually use muscles to get to a new EU debate and followed it up in the Storting and in government, this government day would be counted. I just wonder how the Prime Minister now thinks it is reasonable for the Right to follow up his fight for Norwegian EU membership. Is it so that it's okay anywhere other than in terms of corruption and government?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e317	The way the Right should follow up its application point, it must be the Right Case. It does not interfere with the Prime Minister of another party at all. It is not funny to hear my analysis of this, because this has been said by the Right Leader himself. He said in connection with the Right National Meeting that he didn't believe this case came up too fully during this big period, but they wanted to take part in an ongoing Europe-debate. And I understand that SV also wants to. Although they have a programme entry that says no to membership, they should obviously initiate a process where there is more openness to what to do. And I have to say it is quite daring of SV to raise this question in connection with government cooperation. For now Kristin Halvorsen has a declared goal, to go to government with the Workers' Party, but perhaps not until after the next election. And then the EU case is likely to be on the agenda for good – I have predicted once between 2005 and 2010. How, then, will Kristin Halvorsen, perhaps as Minister of Foreign Affairs in such a government, deal with the cooperation with the Workers' Party, whose leader has said that he is an enthusiastic member of the EU? What kind of government platform will it be? Should one disassociate the day after one has formed a government?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e322	There will be follow-up questions – Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e325	Of course, if the Workers' Party decides to reopen the issue of membership, we can only sit in a government that has gathered on that view, because if a government is to negotiate membership and, if necessary, recommend a negotiated result, there must be an overall government that is behind it. And my impression is that all the parties that the Workers' Party considers to be in government with or to cooperate with in different ways in the Storting are in agreement with that. So we'll get back to that in 2005 with force and weight. And then we have to decide if the time has come to re-establish the European Union. I personally believe that it is good that we now have an EU debate, because it can clarify and mature the question of whether we should re-open the case in 2005. There are many reasons for this, but one of the reasons is that we are adapting to the EU every single day – ranging from drug shower to increased employers’ fees throughout the county of Norway, to the reorganization of gas sales in our country and to the change in our power legislation. And my question is, does the Prime Minister agree that we are actually doing away with a lot of self-confidence through today's EEA agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e332	We were aware that there would be positives and negatives in an EEA agreement. In my view, the pluses are more than the negatives – now the representative pointed to some of the negatives. It has been a clear advantage for Norway and Norwegian business to have the EEA Agreement, despite some problems. But the representatives of Halvorsen and Stoltenberg have now been very interesting. For what Stoltenberg now said was that there is only one of two things that can happen after the 2005 elections in the case of any government cooperation on the left: either the Socialist Left Party must change its view, for the government must be united in the EU case, or there will be no government cooperation between the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. It was a useful clarification, and then the Socialist Left Party election: either to change vision or not to go to government. So this spontaneous question hour has been quite interesting!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e339	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e342	I will be allowed to say that I fully agree with the last Prime Minister now said. But I would like to return to the first question from Kristin Halvorsen, namely the question of Iraq and possible Norwegian participation in stabilisation forces. Otherwise, the Prime Minister is quick to make offers, especially in the area of humanitarian aid, in many places, and we think that is positive. But he could also have done the same in terms of participating in stabilisation forces. Had the line of the Norwegian government and all the other parties led, also led by the United States and the United Kingdom and the others, Saddam Hussein would still be a brutal dictator in Iraq. The United States and the United Kingdom, with the support of Denmark, Iceland and the majority of NATO countries, have made sure that there is now hope for democracy in Iraq. Could not the Prime Minister state that it would be natural for us to have a request, for Norway to participate to stabilise the situation, possibly also with armed forces, and for democracy? When we did not participate in the action, we should at least be able to participate in the building of democracy, including with strengths.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e352	I don't think the matter is as simple as Hagen is now making it. Firstly, we must bear in mind that the background to the conflict between the world society and Iraq was not the desire for a regime change. We may have that in many countries, but international law does not allow us to go to war with that country for that reason. The background was possible weapons of mass destruction in Iraq – we must not completely forget it. As far as I know, these have not yet been detected at all. It may be, but it's not. So I believe that our position of not supporting the war, but still having weapons inspections, was correct. So in the case of the stabilisation power. I believe it is important that a given strength can stabilise the situation in order to achieve effective humanitarian aid, and to provide for reconstruction and a process against democracy. But it must be quite clear that if we are to contribute, it must be in accordance with international law, and we must not have the status of occupying power. It will be a problem of international law and create precedents for Norway that we cannot take inwards. On that basis, we will assess the enquiries and consult Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e359	Bjørn Jacobsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e362	I will also follow up on this with strength contributions in Iraq. I guess there's no doubt that there's no international legal basis for Norway sending military forces to help the U.S. occupation now. It will clearly be a violation of Norwegian tradition. The Prime Minister now says that he can accept some strength contributions. Could he say a little bit more about how? He also says – fortunately – that it should be protected by international law. But the problems that arise for Norway here, in what way did the Prime Minister think it's natural to tell the United States about it, for example. in the coming meetings with President Bush? Would you then clearly tell us about the problems Norway is facing?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e369	The answer to the last question is yes. It is clear that in talks with President Bush in Washington about approx. 14 days this will be a natural theme, and I want to stress that if we are to contribute, it must be in accordance with international law. It's not for us to talk about helping the United States and the United Kingdom as occupying powers. I just said in the previous answer that we cannot pretend to be an occupying power – that must be clear under the fourth Geneva Convention. But I think Jacobsen should be a little careful to say that any contribution is outrageous – it's probably a little more nuanced than that. If, for example: becomes a UN decision, or an Iraqi transitional administration requests contributions, there is no particular doubt, I believe, that this will be a basis for international law. There may also be other grounds for international law. But we want to work on this before we take a final position on whether we can contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e378	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e381	I have a question for the Prime Minister. In these days most of us get the electricity bill in the post office. It is well known that very many had problems with the one that came in January, and the one that comes now is probably too many to be significantly higher. Yesterday the NRK was able to report today that only in Hafslund 60 000 power customers have received a payment delay, and 17 000 power bills have been sent to debt collection agency. This clearly shows that the situation is very serious, but it does not seem that the Government has yet taken this inward. Steensnæs, who is responsible in this area, has long devalued the situation. He has rejected what has now happened, and has referred people to the social office. That's why the population has had to intervene a number of times now to help them with the biggest problems. My question is, how serious does the situation have to be in order for the Government to take seriously what is going to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e394	The government has taken the utmost seriousness inwards, so such accusations are completely unnecessary. I think the representative Brustad knows that well. State council Steensnæs has not devalued the situation, and he has not generally referred people to the social office. But we actually have social aid legislation that allows those who get into serious problems to turn to it, and they can get support according to certain criteria. Of course, this does not mean that all those who have received a high electricity bill – which most of us have registered – will run to the social office. As you know, several schemes have been adopted to help remedy this situation. 60000 to 70000 have received payment schemes from the power companies. It is excellent – it was part of the package of measures, and it should not be presented as a negative result that a person has received payment schemes that allow him to pass through a phase of exceptionally high electricity bills. Furthermore, housing aid schemes are known to have been adopted. Reinforced information measures are in place to guide the power market towards good financial arrangements, and we are now monitoring the economic impact on municipalities of the exceptional situation and the situation of social services in this context. We will come back to that in the context of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e399	The thing here is that what has happened to positive things to help people with the power bill, how many have problems, hasn't happened because of the government, but I want to say that it has happened despite the government. For the government in this case has been driven from skirmish to skirmish, and that's actually how it is, and the Prime Minister can read in the record, that Steensnæs has stood in this hall and said that there was no reason to expect that the electricity prices would rise to 30 p.m. No, they've increased significantly more than that, far more than 30 pst. Therefore, there is a need to have active measures to help people who now have problems, but one must also do so in order to avoid similar situations. I don't see any action coming up to increase power build-up. That's actually the main reason why we're in this situation, and now we have to do what we can to avoid that this situation will last for the summer, for the next winter. It's a risk sport just to bet on the weather gods, as the government is now adding up. The question is, is the Prime Minister now satisfied with the situation as it is, or is he going to do something that matters to increase the build-up of power?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e404	Of course, it is not true that what has happened has not happened because of the Government, but despite the Government. I am aware that the representative Brustad believes that every time she sits in government, we have a very powerful government, despite all the criticism she received, and when she is in opposition, it is a de facto government, but a powerful opposition. This becomes too light and too easily transparent. The government took the initiative. And then we're going to have to accept that in some areas, the Storing would go further, and then they're going to make sure that it does. It will be interesting to come back in the context of the revised national budget and see if the Workers' Party then really prioritises the fight against unemployment and reduced interest rates as part of it. I understand that the representative Sylvia Brustad wants to return to the old power-socialist thinking – it must be what is behind when she calls for large-scale power development projects. We've actually promoted one where we're trying to reconcile the power needs with environmental protection, the Saudi expansion. The government has done a lot in providing alternative energy, research and development in that area, but I thought the representative Brustad was behind Stoltenberg's statement that the time of the large power builds is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e411	There will be three follow-up questions – first Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e414	There are many who have received poor advice that has been more difficult under the government of Bondevik. It's about the unemployed, people in social security and now also about many of those who have to go to the social office to get help with the electricity bill. The government has sent out a circular after the Storting ordered it, to help people so that they would not sell a car they needed to get to work, or not to spend their savings on their children. Nevertheless, the government managed to send out a circular that was such that all the social leaders I've talked to, and there are few, say that this round is actually more stringent, so that there will be fewer who will get help with this, and that the government has in practice tightened up. Does the government think that all these social leaders are actually wrong? And if it is that it turns out now that the practice is being tightened up, and that people don't get the help that the Storting has promised, and as the Government has promised, will the Government change the circular and make sure that people actually get help?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e420	The representative Karin Andersen talks about them with bad advice – I know she has a sincere commitment to it. I ask to be believed that I have it myself, and that is why some of the most important thing for me when we formed the Cooperation Government was that I would oblige it to present an action plan in the fight against poverty in Norway. We have done so, as the first government in Norway, and I am pleased about that. Then we can discuss the scope, whether that's good enough, but this is actually also a personal commitment to my part. I'm asking you to believe that. Interest-reduction also helps households, of course, with loans. As far as this is concerned, I can't discuss the details of this. I have recorded that there is a discussion about it. But of course, we couldn't cancel the Social Aid Act with a circular. The circular was to clarify how the Social Assistance Act was to be applied also to those who approached due to high electricity bills. The law is the same as before.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e427	Sign Eye - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e430	I expect most people to remember the great promises of the Government to get help to pay the electricity bill in winter, and the Government's response, which was 700 kroner to all those who received housing support. The working party proposed NOK 2 500, almost a quadruple, and got a majority for it. However, we also proposed that more people should be covered by the housing support scheme. It also went against the Government. At the same time, we allocated more money to the municipalities, which the government also opposed. So the prime minister can't come and say that there's been a lot of arrest here. Now we see that the increase in municipalities in the social budgets is dramatic, because people need help with their electricity bills, and they have a right to it. Moss municipality has had to out by 60 pst. more in current support compared to last year, 20 pst. more both in Oslo and Stavanger, and now there are new bills, high bills to be paid. My question to the Prime Minister is, how is he going to help the municipalities deal with the problems they are now struggling with?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e435	This, of course, must be done through the local economy. I have recorded that there has been a debate that this money has not yet come out to the social offices, and that the government has been accused of the training of the decision to raise the money. That's not right. One has told the social services how to deal with those who turn to them because of high electricity bills. Of course, they have to follow the law to these too, as one does to everyone else. There shall be no discrimination in this way. One has clarified that it is not reasonable to claim assets sold or children’s savings used. So the social offices are going to pay out in line with that. When the government has not yet sent the money to the municipalities, it is because the county officials were supposed to get an overview of the needs of the different municipalities. The very last overviews are, as far as I know, about to come in, and then have a basis for doing something in relation to the municipalities. But that does not mean that the social offices should not pay out to those who, under the Social Health Act, are entitled to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e440	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e443	I find it necessary to make the Prime Minister aware of two things. The only thing is in relation to the circular that the government was required to send out. In that context, Stortinget was very careful not to ignore the law on social services, but asked for a clarification that the municipalities on its side had to be noisy in relation to the particular energy situation that is now. I want to encourage the Prime Minister to look very carefully at it. If not, he may in fact risk that his action plan against poverty in 2003 will result in more poor people in this country and not fewer. Then there's a serious signal from the Right National Meeting that it's not those who have payment problems in this country, the Right is busy by. Will the Prime Minister confirm that he is taking a thorough turn in the revised national budget even when it comes to money for the municipalities, in order to follow this up?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e450	I have to state once again that the social services are of course required to comply with the law, and in the circular one specified, in line with the wishes of the Stortinget, that it may be reasonable to use the law to ease the general requirements that all income opportunities should be tested, by not – and I clarify – requiring assets sold in such an exceptional situation, or children's savings spent. On that basis, I expect the social offices to deal with the situation, and as I said, with regard to the money for the municipalities, we had to get an overview from the county officials before we could work. But this will come back in the context of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e455	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e458	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Industry is struggling, unemployment is increasing, and so far the Government has chosen to act passively and wait for the tight budget to be reduced. Meanwhile, industry leaders are calling for the involvement of authorities in a targeted business initiative. The fact that you don't want to spend more money now is now one thing, but what amazes the Center Party is that the Christian People's Party is helping to propose structural changes in the primary industries that can only have centralisation and reduced employment as a result. The Minister for Fisheries has promoted a structural communication on the coastal fishing fleet, which in practice opens up transferable quotas and which may make recruitment more difficult. In the newspapers, the Council of State discusses whether more than or less than 1000 fishermen need to leave the industry. Agriculture is not heard by the state for its desire to invest in industrial development, but, on the contrary, it will cut the right to negotiate and advance the WTO negotiations before we know the outcome. How can the Prime Minister and the Christian People's Party be calm and contribute to an industrial policy towards primary industries that could threaten coastal and rural settlements?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e467	It doesn't get any better if it's repeated that the government is passive or sitting still. The husband of black paint, as I now heard from the new leader of the Central Party, I had not actually expected. Firstly, I have explained that, in addition to a fiscal policy that can contribute to a reduction in interest and crown rates and thus create and secure jobs, we will also propose measures in the short-term fight against unemployment. We will come back to that in the context of the revised national budget. But unlike some other parties, we have to fit it into responsible frameworks. In the case of primary industries, the Government is pursuing an active policy to ensure that those working there have a safe and good job. Now the Minister for Fisheries is here and can probably go into more detail about the representative Arnstad so far. But what we're looking for is creating profitable jobs, both in the fishing industry itself and in the fishing industry. Then you can't resist any structural change. The crucial thing is to get a robust nourishment that holds, and that's the government's policy. Unfortunately, there has been a great deal of disinformation in the media in the case of tradable allowances, but it will be possible for the Ludvigsen State Council to deal with it. As far as the agricultural industry is concerned, since the Minister of Agriculture is not present, I have to draw the attention of the representative Arnstad to the fact that the last agricultural settlement has given farmers a good income development in the last year. As far as I know, there is an increase in revenue of approx. 13 pst. It is clear from what other groups have had, but I think it was reasonable this time because there has been a lower income trend in many previous years. Then the representative Arnstad must not come and accuse the Cooperative Government of not wanting to pursue an agricultural policy to ensure profitability in the agricultural industry. In the case of the World Trade Organisation, it's a phenomenon that we all have to deal with, whether or not one likes it. We're trying to create a transition to what can come from there, which becomes as gentle and robust as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e480	I record that the Prime Minister sees my point of view as a black paint. It doesn't do people along the coast. It doesn't make the fishermen who are deeply concerned about the structural message presented by the Government, and who realize that the only party in the Stortinget that will support it is the Progress Party. It is not the farmers who want to invest in industrial development related to farm resources and who feel that they are in a way meeting a government rejection in relation to their demands. It does not do so to those farmers who want to continue to invest in the agricultural industry and who feel that the government can now advance a WTO outcome that is currently unknown. They don't feel like black paint. They experience it as realities. And my question is: why will the Christian People's Party pursue a policy towards the primary industries that can contribute to centralisation and reduced employment, and the only party that will support this in the Storting is the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e486	The last comment gives no reason to withdraw the remark on black paint. On the contrary, it was only reinforced. The government wants to pursue a policy towards primary industries that makes working both in the fishing industry and in the fishing industry along the coast – I know the coast relatively well, I have been born and raised there – and that leads to a development also for agriculture that makes it robust and able to meet the challenges we get from, among other things. World Trade Organisation. We can't close our eyes because there can be challenges there. We still don't know how they're actually designed, but we know they're coming. It would be pretty naive to close your eyes for that. I actually got involved quite a lot in the last agricultural settlement. I have quite good contact with the agricultural organizations, and I have been given, if I should be allowed to say so myself, quite a favor for that result. Now we're about to enter into new agricultural negotiations, so we'll see if we can also reach an agreement this time. At least that's my wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e493	There will be follow-up questions – Åsa Elvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e496	I have a follow-up question for the Minister for Fisheries. The representative Arnstad was concerned about the situation in industry and unemployment in the country and in the fishing industry in particular. In the last few days, Finnmark County has again pointed out the link between the industrial situation and the very many violations of the obligations of the trawlers. 700 people in Finnmark are out of work today as a direct consequence of the fishing industry’s wear and tear. We have seen that this government has no strategy to help the fishing industry on its feet and that it has previously accepted a proposal in this Chamber in relation to industrial guarantee schemes. Nor is it interested in using the tools that are actually available, such as: the universal service obligations. It also suggests that the situation is very serious. The Council of State has said for two years that he should look at the situation in relation to universal service obligations. Now I wonder, is the Council of State going to do more than look at the situation? Is he actually going to enforce the contract that the universal service obligations actually are?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e505	It is right, as the Prime Minister says, that the fishing industry is now struggling with is a lack of profitability. We see that prices have fallen both in the herring sector and in the cod sector, and so profitability has fallen. It updates the need for us to do some structural grips linked to the coastal fleet. There is a big message for treatment in Stortinget, and I remember that just a lack of profitability has led to a 24pst in the 1990s. has been lost by the coastal fleet. In the last 14 years, the recruitment of the coastal fleet has failed. In 1988, one out of three fishermen was under 30 years of age. Today it's one in five. There is a lack of profitability, there is a lack of safe and good boats that have led to this. The proposal we have put forward will help to remedy it, and I remember that it is not right, as it is said here, that fishermen are strongly opposed to it. Norway’s Fiskarlag has agreed to recommend that we make structural changes and recommend that they themselves finance them, and the Finnish fishing team strongly regrets this if this is not adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e510	Odd Roger Enoksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e513	My follow-up question also goes to the Minister for Fisheries. The structural message will give us plenty of time to discuss in Stortinget, so I won't get into it. It is a fact that today there are 7 out of 23 fillet plants operating in Finnmark. From the county it is claimed that this is related to the fact that as many as 15 out of 19 trawlers in the county break the delivery obligations. Mr. Åsa Elvik's question and my question concern, following what Mr. Marit Arnstad asked the Prime Minister, what the Government and the Minister for Fisheries will do to ensure the conditions of the industry. These trawls were precisely granted a concession to ensure the industry raw material. Then they break these obligations. This is what the Minister for Fisheries sees without action. So both the previous and this question is what the Minister for Fisheries will do in relation to the trawls that break the delivery obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e520	The lack of profitability and activity in several coastal fillet establishments is primarily due to market conditions and a lack of profitability and a lack of raw material. Secondly, a part of the trawls that did not comply with the delivery obligations have been in default for a long time. We had a ownership committee that investigated relationships related to it, and I have announced that we will take action. On Saturday, in Hammerfest – from today’s journey with Hurtigruta along the Finnish coast to gain firsthand knowledge – I am presenting a draft consultation on new regulations, so that we can deal with the rules and enforce them uniformly. What has been the weakness of today's delivery conditions has been that some cases have been dealt with individually. We now want to introduce a regime that is both possible to enforce, and that is adapted to the structure that is now in the industry, because now it is important to save the remains of a fillet industry. In addition, these days I have strengthened vis-à-vis the Directorate for Fisheries the importance of strengthening the control of the law on participants.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e525	Rolf Terje Klungland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e528	I will again ask the Prime Minister questions. It is interesting to listen to the Prime Minister when he expounds that the Government is using the vacancy in its policy. Not long ago, the oil and energy minister was out there and encouraged the industry to stop production to sell electricity. He said that in the light of the power crisis we had this winter. The industry followed the call. They threw out the workers, made millions and saved the government's power situation. To this year we have imported 4.6 TWh with coal and nuclear power. Hydro says it's end of investment in the metal industry in Norway. That's especially because the power balance is bad. The government's response has been windmills. What will the Government do to maintain employment and export income in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e533	Of course, the most important thing for maintaining industrial workplaces is to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. And we'll do that by getting the cost down. We're doing that by getting the interest down. We're going to do that by getting the dollar price down. We do that by getting wage developments under control. We are known as approx. 30 pst. above the average in our competing countries in terms of compensation of employees. It's not going to go in the long run if we're going to get through the competition. This is why the Government has invited and succeeded in establishing income policy cooperation, which seems to make wage developments this year at least more moderate than in the last year. We're not using unemployment as an economic policy tool. It doesn't get any better no matter how many workers' party representatives repeat it. On the contrary, we are pursuing an economic policy to combat unemployment. We have income policy cooperation to combat unemployment. We reduce taxes and charges to combat unemployment. We provide companies with increased opportunities for research and development to combat unemployment, and we will come up with measures to combat unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e540	The time for the oral question procedure is now over. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e546	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Tore Nordtun to the Minister for Finance, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 10, from the representative of Ranveig Frøiland to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 13, from the representative of Lena Jensen to the Minister for Education and Research, lapses, as the questioner is not present. Questions 22 and 23, from the representatives of Øyvind Korsberg and Berit Brørby respectively to the Minister for the Environment, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e562	I will be asked the following questions to the Prime Minister: ‘The Minister of State has gone out publicly and has asked the rapporteurs of the country to engage in the pediatrics agreement of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party to join the Stortinget on 21 June 2002. This has naturally led to strong reactions. Can the Prime Minister elaborate on the purpose of these statements and why he now wants to go away from the Christian People's Party election vows in kindergarten policy?»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e571	Since the issue of kindergarten also has to do with local democracy, it was natural for me to mention it in my lecture on local democracy at the Conference of Rapporteurs of the Local Councils. I concluded by saying that the matter needs a strong commitment from Kommune-Norway. And we've got that. Several rapporteurs and other local politicians have been involved. That's good. Otherwise, I do not intend to go away from the objectives of kindergarten policy that I myself and the Christian People's Party put forward before the elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e583	It is true that these rapporteurs are very important forums. It is the leaders in the municipalities who are going to implement, and we at Stortinget are totally dependent on if our plans for full kindergarten expansion and a halving of the nursery price are to be implemented. The answer now given by the country's prime minister may indicate that he has been misinterpreted in the media. But I want to say one thing, and that's what we've seen after that play, has helped to exacerbate the climate in relation to the parties that have signed the agreement in Stortinget. I want to say that the starting point of the Workers' Party is – and I, who have worked on this matter for many years, also believe it personally – that in the interests of all the parents who are waiting for a kindergarten place and the fact that the price should fall, Stortinget had actually earned us a consensus with the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e590	The last thing I agree with, and we've invited you to do that. We want negotiations with the opposition parties in Stortinget on this. However, we cannot impose on rapporteurs and local politicians the word they mean. That would be a strange kind of debate. The Central Association of Municipalities has given the Government its full support in what we have presented. It is apparent from the opinions of the Director of the KS. I hope the Workers' Party will be open and not lock itself in the various parts of the nursery. I see with interest that the leader of the LO today says to the evening post that she is skeptical about aspects of the kindergarten agreement, and especially about the tax issue. And then I have to remind you that Karita Bekkemelm Orheim herself, as the Council of State in the budget proposal after the 2001 elections, stated that she would not recommend the maximum price scheme. It's okay, it's okay to turn around, but we're going to follow up on the former State Council, Bekkemelm Orheim's vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e597	The Prime Minister knows very well that whether we call it a maximum price or if we call it a halve of the price, we must have found solutions to the challenges for the private kindergartens. That's what the problem has been. So no matter what we call this scheme, we had to find solutions for the private kindergartens. This is why the situation has been much simpler in Sweden, because the whole kindergarten sector there has been public — unlike the Norwegian, which consists of half private kindergartens. But that's what this government didn't want to go into, and that's what's regrettable. I also find it regrettable that the Prime Minister does not see the seriousness of his own statements to the rapporteurs of the country, that it does not matter what a Prime Minister says to the leaders of the municipalities of the country. Then I think Bondevik underestimates his own role. But I hope that we can get to a consensus, and that we put down some of the arguments that we've seen in the media lately.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e604	I see no reason to withdraw any of what I said at the Conference of Rapporteurs. I said we need Communion Norway's commitment. They have to say what they mean. And they have, including workers' party rapporteurs. When it comes to finding schemes for private kindergartens, I fully agree with the representative of Bekkelem Orheim that this is important. And that's actually what the government has added up to. We propose a legal requirement for equal treatment of public and private kindergartens in municipalities. So I hope we can agree on that. But I must then allow myself to quote from the proposal of the Council of State, Bekkemelm Orheim, as late as October 2001, i.e. after the election. Then she said the following: ‘A specific assessment has been made of the possibility of transferring the entire financial liability to the State for a period of time and, in the light of this, of fixing a maximum price. Such a model would have some advantages. However, when the government does not recommend such a solution, there are several factors involved’. And then she explains it. We actually agree with that. And then there would be a good basis for reaching an agreement also in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e630	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e636	My question to the Minister of Culture and the Church is as follows: ‘The film lease between the cinemas and the film bureaus has been filed for ESA. The agreement is now an important reason why Norway has a large number of small and medium-sized cinemas that can offer film screening at the same price as large cinemas in the larger cities. A termination of the film lease would lead to a competition in which large cinemas with high audiences would be favored at the expense of the small cinemas. How will the State Council prevent cinema death and ensure public access to popular films at the same price across the country?»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e645	I have followed with great interest the ongoing case of the film lease agreement and ESA. The contract has a very important function, especially in relation to the smallest cinemas. I can inform you that I raised the question of the film lease in a meeting with ESA earlier in our day. I then expressed concern about the cultural and district policy implications if the scheme is not passed on in one way or another. The film lease is, as you know, a private law agreement between Film&Kino and the Norwegian Film Agency's Foren-ing. The Ministry of Culture and the Church is therefore not directly involved. As far as I know, Film&Cino is in the process of assessing alternatives to the film lease in order to ensure that cinemas deliver films to acceptable conditions that are not contrary to the EEA Agreement. I hope that the parties will arrive at such an agreement that there will still be a good cinema offer throughout the country. Otherwise, I would like to remind the representative Haga – as the former Minister for Culture knows for sure – that there is a division between the state and the municipalities when it comes to film policy and cinema policy. The film policy that supports the production of films is a state responsibility, while the responsibility for cinema policy through the law on film and videograms has been added to the municipalities. So there's so little I can do directly to make sure that the municipalities don't put down kinoar.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e654	At the time of adoption of the EEA Agreement, it was adopted as a relatively tight trade agreement. Then the dynamic nature of the agreement has made it an integral part of new areas. What we see in relation to the film lease is that the EEA Agreement not only intervenes in cultural policy but also in district policy. I think this illustrates a very worrying aspect of the EEA agreement. It's true, as the Council of State says, that there has been a division of labour between the state and the municipality in the case of cinemas. The question now is whether we get such a terrible deal, whether we get so bad solutions in this area that it becomes necessary for the state to go in and see how to maintain the cinemas around the country so that people actually get an equivalent offer. My question to the Council of State is: does she have to have a more offensive attitude about how to make sure that people across the country get an equivalent film offer, than to show that there is a division of labour between the state and the municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e663	In fact, I see the Central Party as a party occupied by municipal freedom, and that there should be a division of responsibilities between what the State is going to intervene in and what the municipalities are going to be responsible for. It has at least been a vision that I, perhaps in confusion, have taken over me. I would also like to remind you that I have the same tools as the representative had when she was Minister of Culture, in relation to what one can intervene in and do. Nevertheless, I took this up when I was in a meeting with ESA. I would also like to remind you that the reason why this is a matter in ESA is that there are forces in Norway that report this. So those who make trouble for us are Norwegian counterpowers. There's a job to do. I can probably also share the frustration in view of the fact that the subsidisation principle is not always as clear in everything that is done in Brussels, but I believe, as I said, that a capable of finding new regimes that secure cinemas. At least it's my impression after the conversation I had with ESA, that the will was there. But as a non-direct party, I cannot intervene directly in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e672	The Council of State has rightly stated that the Centre Party is occupied by the Local Maritime Administration. We've been, and we're going to be. But the problem is that there are still new challenges for local democracy, and there is little money available. It will also be the situation in relation to securing the cinemas. But this is a very interesting affair. I accept the fact that the state here is not a direct party to the negotiations that are taking place in Brussels. At the same time, this issue is deeply involved in Norwegian cultural policy. Therefore, it is interesting to hear the role of the Council of State in this process, and whether she should not be able to use boxing gloves in relation to ESA more than it seems she has done. She says that she has raised the matter, but the council does not give the impression that she has run the case hard compared to ESA. What room does the Council of State think she has for action in this matter and in relation to the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e679	I have, as I said before, no other boxing gloves than the representative Haga had as Minister of Culture. She could also do nothing but do what I am doing now. I've been in conversation with ESA, and ESA is well represented with Norwegians, so they know the geographical and cultural challenges we have to get a good supply across the country. I also know that Film/Kino is actively looking at alternatives so that you can maintain a good cinema offer. I'm going to stay orientated, but I'm forced to respect the distribution we have of where I'm going to intervene directly, and where it's the municipal authorities that are responsible. It's not always as easy to keep your fingers off the barrel, but we're forced to do it when we know that we've got each other our responsibilities. I'm busy that there should be a good cinema offer in the whole country. And as a person who's grown up in rural areas, I'm aware that there's a whole need for other measures in relation to the district rails than in the central strip. And I sincerely hope that will also be the future for Norwegian cinema viewers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e691	«In the Gang of the World of 3 April d.a. is the whole page advertisement for tomato under the Norwegian trademark ‘Gartner’. As is known, Norwegian tomatoes are not produced at this time of the year. It is therefore reasonable to expect that these advertisements would have been marked with a country of origin. This reminds me of misleading advertising. Does the Council believe that the use of such a trademark, which is a preference for Norwegian products, should be labelled with the country of origin when the product is imported?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e698	First, I want to refer to the extensive answer on the labelling of food that I gave in the Stortinget on 27 March this year on the basis of a Document No. Eight proposals from the representatives of Marit Arnstad and Åslaug Haga, where I stressed that the Government takes into account the consumer's desire for better authorship. In Regulation No 21 December 1993 1385 ‘on the labelling, etc. of foodstuffs’ — the label code — we find rules on the labelling of food intended for human consumption and certain aspects of the presentation and advertising of food. The regulation was laid down by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health under the laws of the food law. In particular, Section 5 ‘Principles of labelling, presentation and advertising’ states that the labelling should not be used for the purchase of the food’s characteristics, including: the place of provenance or provenance. This also applies to the advertising and presentation of food. This regulation has been amended with effect from 15 February 2003, including: on the labelling of fruit and vegetables. A new section 4a was added, ‘Information obligation in the case of non-prepacked foods’, which states that fresh fruit, berries, vegetables and potatoes must be accompanied by product names and country of provenance. At the same time, Section 21, ‘Name, address and origin’, a new third paragraph, which states that fresh fruit, berries, vegetables and potatoes should be labelled with the trade name and country of provenance. In other words, it has been made clear that the current rules for the production and advertising of fresh fruit, berries, vegetables and potatoes require that the country of origin be declared when a present product to the customer in the labelling or advertising. I have seen the ad in VG 3 April to which the representative in the room refers. As far as I can see, tell the ad how to store the tomatoes and about the properties of the various tomato varieties. The advertisement is general and does not highlight whether the tomatoes are Norwegian or imported.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e713	What I noticed when I saw the ad was that a user of the Norwegian brand «Gartner». It is reasonable then that one considers this to be a Norwegian product, but since no Norwegian tomatoes are produced at this time of the year, it goes without saying that this is an imported product. I would say that this reminds me of misleading advertising. We also know that the demand from consumer organisations is moving more and more towards being able to track a product. It'll be hard in this situation. Will the apparatus of the Council of State follow this up, so that the advertising complies with the standards laid down?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e722	My assessment of this ad is probably slightly different from that of the representative. This ad was published in April of this year. We know that the Norwegian season is right around the corner. So then this big, important label – which was originally a brand that the gardeners themselves put through Garnerhallen, later sold to Bama, and Gartner Norway is heavily behind – chooses to go out with a general advertisement on how to store and keep tomatoes, including tomatoes. not in the refrigerator, because it is living material. I experience that as good and sensible information, just ahead of a Norwegian season. But we definitely want – and that's the government's policy – people to eat tomatoes all year round, because it's healthy and good. A lot of tomatoes should also be imported, so we get tomatoes all year round. Whether it's Norwegian or foreign tomatoes, we have to take good care of them. So I see that the Gartner brand makes sense to provide this information, both on foreign tomatoes and on Norwegian tomatoes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e727	In the last few years, we have seen that the importers, for example, reduced the price in advance of the Norwegian producers entering the market with their products. This has led to the risk of the traditional extra price, on which Norwegian producers rely in order to provide good Norwegian products. Here, marking with the country of origin is also a keyword. I thought that even in relation to advertising should try to be as true as possible. I feel that in this context is not one. So my question is: will the Council also look at this problem of entering at an early stage with a foreign product, so that one perceives it as a Norwegian product, as a user of the Norwegian mark «Gartner»?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e734	Let me first say that had this been advertising for a particular batch, an offer from a Norwegian supply chain, or in and of «Gartner», about tomatoes for sale now, it should have been the origin mark. But this is a general information on how to treat tomatoes in order to make tomatoes taste the best possible, and now we are just in the transition between the import season and the Norwegian season. This is good for all who are happy in tomatoes, and it leads – I think – to increased demand for tomatoes. Then the representative is quite right that we still have a discussion about this problem right in this transition, because when Norwegian tomatoes come on the market in May, suddenly the customs duty on the imported food comes in order for Norwegian tomatoes to have a chance. There's a little bit of transition problem. That's it in and of course always when we have such a regime. When are we going to apply the customs duty on imported products to create a market for Norwegian production? It's one problem. But anyway, if we can increase the consumption of tomatoes, which is good for everyone, it's also good for Norwegian production.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e744	I have a question for the Minister of Justice: ‘According to Halden Arbeiderblad, the construction of a new prison in Halden is now to be examined if private investors are to be offered instead of being owned and built by the State. Such a new investigation will delay the project by up to one and a half years, according to that newspaper. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to reverse the construction plans in order to bring in private operators when this project is essential in order to reduce the long queues?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e753	The size opened in Innst. S. No 255 for 2001-2002 to build prisons in private according to government specifications. In St. prp. No 1 for 2002–03, it appears that both Bergen prison and Halden prison will be added to an open bidding process after the authorities have implemented the design and specification. Competition in the construction of prisons is new both for the ministry and for State Building. Private financing of public projects is often referred to as Public Private Cooperation — OPS. OPS may operate in different variants depending, inter alia, on: the degree of influence on the final product and the sharing of responsibilities and risks between the private operator and the public. If the intentions of a fully-fledged OPS model are to be met, the tender must be made early in the design phase with good functional descriptions. The aim is, then, that private actors are given innovation opportunities, among other things. on the material selection of the installation, etc. The lessee will also be able, through such a model, to add a significant amount of responsibility and risk to the private actor. The delay to which the representative Gjul refers may be related to the fact that the use of that OPS model could have led to some delay because, under certain conditions, the solution descriptions, which are common to publicly funded projects, had to be reworked for functional descriptions. However, the project has arrived at a stage where the project has been presented. The Ministry concludes these days the choice of a model for financing Halden prison — and, to a large extent, for Bergen prison. In this context, consideration will be given to both the desire for competitive outsourcing and the desire to avoid any delay in the project. By using the pre-project material that has already been developed as tender material, the project will be able to keep the timetable for which it has now been established.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e766	I thank the Council of State for the answer and would like to express my satisfaction that the Council of State wants to maintain the timetable for the construction of the prison in Halden. I think that's very important, because the prison in Halden is of such size that it will have a big impact on whether or not we can solve the problems we have with settlement cows. But when we're dealing with this with cows, I again want to challenge the Council of State. Among other things, we had: a rather cruel example in Trondheim now just before Easter, where a violent man committed a new rape while waiting for a place to live. This is something that most people think is completely unacceptable, and in a way is a political responsibility that we have to take. I again want to challenge the Council of State and ask if he will come back with a more systematic identification of the need for new settlements, and what plan he has for the development of new settlement capacity. If we're going to be able to get rid of the reconciliation queues, it's absolutely necessary that we get a better system on this than we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e773	First of all, any advance depends on a budgetary process and the outsourcing intends to obtain cost-effective solutions. In terms of settlement queues, we're continuously analysing them, and the priorities for settlement are very clear. It is the custodial custody, in that context also law enforcement, and it is persons who commit serious crime, recriminalism and violent convictions. We have submitted a systematic report to ensure that the people the police want to bring in are actually brought in. Such cases as are mentioned here, we are now trying to catch up with good reporting practices, both in criminal matters, in the police and closely between the police and the police. We get regular reports of that. In the revised national budget and also in later budgetary work, I will come back with a description of the situation and tell you about the measures we want to promote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e782	I am pleased that the Council of State signals that he will already come back with a more systematic follow-up in the revised national budget, so that we can bring down the reconciliation queues. The situation we are today is totally unacceptable. The Labour Party would like to participate in a dialogue and fruitful cooperation, so that we can solve this. But back to this with the construction and ownership of private prisons: I want here to challenge the government council a little bit, because I wonder if this is a purely ideological thing where the Progress Party has pushed the government parties. I have problems seeing that there may be some cost-effectiveness associated with private ownership of prisons. After all, they're going to have a return on the investments they're making, and I can't easily see that it can be anything cheaper for private builders and owners than for the state to make it seams.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e789	I'm not going to try to interpret the Progress Party. But as I have understood them, at this point they want to push forward a cost awareness of construction in addition to the one that is always going to be involved in traditional state funding, and that the competition itself is the object. It is necessary to have things that are useful for the purpose and that are in the government's specifications under the Penal Code, but it is necessary to ensure that there is a sense of cost in all other aspects of the project. That is how I have understood the intention, and it is on the basis that an agreement has also been reached between the government parties and the Progress Party. Then we have to do what we can to ensure that we get the most of the costs on the table and get rid of the costs that are not necessary to run the policy that has the Storting's approval under the Penal Code. I perceive the Advance Party so that they want to get value for money, and I think that is a healthy and correct principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e797	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: «Articles in the Official Journal of Drammen and VG 24 April 2003 shall be referred to. The articles mention a female taxi driver who, in March 2000, was subjected to violent violence by the perpetrator. today is not «back lock and hit». However, the police have now brutally brought in the woman for a speedboat. What does the Council of State think about the police's procedure when the woman was brought in, and does the Council of State think that the police have followed up his signals to the Storting in this matter?"
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e806	Initially, I refer to my reply to the representative in the Question Time on 19 March 2003, where I say that the driver of the taxi is in breach of the provisions of the Road Traffic Act in 1998 and the violence incident she was exposed to in 2000 are two cases of inconsistency. It is in accordance with the law that people are called to compensation when they do not succeed in collecting outstanding fines. This is what the term subsidiary prison sentence refers to. If one fails to meet for compensation after a summons, it will be necessary to execute the penalty imposed by the police after an order to seize the defendant for compensation. The Police Directorate reports that what happened in this case, according to general practice in the collection of penalty zones. In the context of the call, information is routinely provided indicating that the absence of a call could lead to an attack. The defendant was first visited by a civil police officer, and it was only when she opposed joining him voluntarily, that the uniformed patrol was summoned and she was apprehended. Based on the information I received from the Police Directorate, the police have followed the procedures for the imposition of subsidiary prison sentences. Nor does the use of power appear to be disproportionate on the basis of earlier notices to her. As this case is formally independent of the case the taxi driver himself reported, the police have therefore not acted critically. But I have to admit that the police could have used something more sensible in the matter. The case is very special. I expect that both the violence and the settlement case were well - known at Drammen Police Station. The chief of police has previously gone out in the media and regrets that the violence has not been better followed up. The driver informs himself in the media that she herself had not become aware that the reporter had now been interrogated. As Minister of Justice, I am concerned that we take seriously the situation of the victim of violence. I have a great understanding that a victim of violence feels that it is offensive when a report of violence is not followed up by the police. It would therefore have been beneficial if the taxi driver had become aware that the police had now followed up the case before the police went to arrest. This could probably have had an impact on the taxi driver’s willingness to repair the road traffic ticket.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e819	I would like to thank you for your answer. I understand that there is a divergence between the Minister of Justice's description of what happened at Brerenen Square on 24 April, and the witness descriptions and newspaper reviews that I have read and received. On 24 April, the taxi driver Kirsten Schei was ironed in Brerne’s square in Drammen in front of the eyes of munching taxi colleagues and the audience. She was pulled out of the car by four policemen – two of the policemen were in civil, but refused to legitimize. Kirsten Schei is here today. She is a woman of 1.66 m and weighs 48 kg – a very clever little lady. In addition, the police know very well that she has a serious back injury after the violence incident three years ago. She broke up this back injury as a result of police brutal treatment. Otherwise, she is also so special and little of growth that the handcuffs fell off in the police car. I ask the Minister of Justice if he thinks that the police's action in this matter is good, and that this is the way to treat victims of violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e832	I have to stick to the messages and reports I get from the police, and I have got that in this case as well. I have previously commented on the two issues, and I would like to quote myself since the representative did not take them. I say that ‘I have to admit that the police could have used something more useful in the matter’. And then I point especially to the violence case. The fact that the victim of the violence should have known that it had been questioned by the person who had committed violence against her seems to me to have been an independent, important point. It turns out that she has not received any information about it. So I guess, because I don't know the person, and neither should I guess anything, that if she had received such information, it might have led to a different relationship with the bot. I say very strongly that when people have been subjected to violence, as the situation is here, and as described in the previous Question Time round, you should take this seriously. I assume that the situation is so transparent that knowledge of the questioning had been carried out could have been possible to communicate to the person mentioned in this question-time context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e841	To get to this last one, I'm going to share what the Council of State says. After I have been informed, the hearing should have taken place on 31 March. Nevertheless, it is only this week that Scheis lawyer has received the information he is entitled to receive immediately after the hearing, and the questioning has then become known through the press. According to the investigator, the background should have been Easter – so Easter holidays are held at the Drammen Police Station from 31 March to 28 April. With such Easter holidays, it is no wonder that this chamber has one of the lowest rates of clarification in the country. We've also read in the locals about rebellion among the officials at the Chamber. What will the Council of State do to clean up the situation of the management of the Chamber of Drama, and how does he react to the Easter break for one month at a police chamber?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e848	I can't comment on details. It is such that I am neither a police officer in Søndre Buskerud nor a police director. I have to trust that those who are set to do a job do the job well. But what I maintain is that I expect both the violence and the settlement case to be well known at the Drammen police station, and I also relate to the independent fact that the police chief had previously gone out in the media and regretted that the violence had not been better followed up. On that basis, as is publicly known, I think it would have been an independent point to give the information. That's what I'm saying here, and I mean that. Because I think for people who come into the situation described here, where you feel that you have to make up for something yourself, but at the same time feel that it doesn't necessarily happen in another area, it's important to know that what you're exposed to as a victim of violence is actually being followed up. So we know from the previous question time that there has been trouble because he has been out of the country, but when he came back to the country, they reacted, and then it is very important that information is given. I've said that in the first answer, and I repeat that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e858	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘The Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Health recommends to the Ministry of Health that several drug users should receive methadone treatment. Will the Council of State follow up this well-founded recommendation from the Directorate for Social and Health?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e867	The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health, on behalf of the Ministry of Health, has been subject to the legislation on medically assisted rehabilitation, LAR. In this context, the Directorate has underlined the importance of continuing to focus on this particular form of treatment. It has been demonstrated that LAR reduces the misuse of illicit opiates, reduces treatment failures, reduces crime and prevents death. It is therefore important for those drug users who can benefit from such treatment to have access to it. Therefore, in a short time, I would like to send out a detailed circular on medically assisted rehabilitation, where the intentions of the previous circular will be clarified. Among other things, I would like to clarify that the lower age limit of 25 years should not be absolute, but be included in an overall assessment. I received other support for this in Stortinget in connection with the processing of Document No. 8:20 for 2002-2003. This new circular maintains the general rules of the current circular, but will focus on providing an overall assessment of the LAR input. In my view, it is essential that the input criteria are thus understood from such an overall perspective. There is reason to believe that such clarification also gives several addicts the opportunity to start with medically assisted rehabilitation. However, there is only a short-term strategy in relation to a more comprehensive review of medically assisted rehabilitation. In the relevant recommendation to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Directorate-General for Social Affairs proposes a more comprehensive revision of the legislation relating to the LAR. I have notified Stortinget that we are working on an independent, comprehensive evaluation of the entire scheme. This evaluation has previously been endorsed by the Stortinget in connection with the treatment of St.prp. No 1 for 2002-2003. There will not be an evaluation investigating the effectiveness of the drugs in question used in LAR. We know it. Rather, there will be a study of the different models of LAR, and the organisation, and the functioning of the other rehabilitation measures. The assessment of any major legislative changes will be considered in the light of this forthcoming review. It is important that decisions are made on these issues. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health also underlines in its review the need to monitor the supply and prescription of the drugs in question: ‘Methadone and Subutex are highly addictive drugs and uncritical prescriptions are associated with overdoses. Therefore, a controlled supply of these medicinal products is necessary in line with the existing prescription.’ Reports show that there has been an increase in cases where methadone is a factor in overdose deaths. It is therefore important that we do not celebrate control as we open up to several users of LAR. At the same time, it is essential that users entering the LAR receive good help and assistance from several and different services — across sectors and departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e881	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer, which I see as relatively positive. But I would also like to point out that the wrong use of drugs in all contexts is fatal. All the research on methadone is unambiguous. Methadone treatment is effective. It leads to fewer overdoses, reduces crime and improves the quality of life for drug users. As far as I know, today we have treated with methadone or Subutex approx. 1,800 users, while that should be at least 5,000 according to my discretion. It's a long wait for treatment and an excessive bureaucracy around the recording. I am pleased that the Minister of Health will remove the 25-year rule as the only rule, but still the legislation is complicated, cumbersome to practice and experience as being contrary to the user who is seeking treatment. My follow-up question is: Shouldn't patients with drug addiction diagnosis have the same right and easy access to treatment as all other patients in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e890	Let me first remind the representative Alvheim that this government has actually for several rounds proposed and adopted an increase in the capacity of medically assisted rehabilitation, just to get away from cows. This has resulted in a higher number of users than the representative Alvheim now referred to. However, what is my intention in addition to clarifying that the lower age limit should not be absolute but included in an overall assessment is to carry out an external evaluation of all aspects of the medically assisted rehabilitation apparatus. We started late in Norway, but when it was first built, it was built quite quickly. I want to make such an evaluation before I make a more comprehensive change. Moreover, I would like to refer to the Russian reforms that the Government has presented to the Stortinget and, in part, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e899	I thank the Minister of Health again for the answer. I agree with this evaluation to be made, but it does not matter who will carry it out. We also have counterclaims against this type of drug treatment, so I want to closely monitor who is appointed to do this evaluation. A recent report from Trondheim showed that seven young people died of overdose while waiting for methadone treatment. It was stated in the same report that the waiting time for methadone in Trondheim per. the current date is more than two years. Can the Minister of Health accept this discrimination in the Norwegian health services of the drug addicts and thus maintain the relatively high number of overdose deaths we currently have in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e908	I have demonstrated through both words and actions that I am concerned with reducing the waiting time, and I am not least concerned with introducing an overall set of measures to reduce the number of overdose deaths. It concerns LAR, but it is also about lowthreshold measures, which have proved to be very effective, and we have recently distributed 42 million. 27 municipalities in the country to build up such measures. With regard to the issue of medically assisted rehabilitation, I cannot see that we have a controlled prescription and extradition scheme as an expression of some discrimination against this user group. This is simply on a professional basis, because one sees that methadone alone, Subutex alone, is not the solution; it must be integrated into a comprehensive follow-up and rehabilitation scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e919	‘The government is assessing the sale of non-prescription medicinal products outside of pharmacy. A number of medicinal products are currently prescription-free in minimum quantities when sold from pharmacies, while prescriptions are required for the supply of larger quantities. The sale of these preparations in the ordinary course of business without a prescription will make it impossible to control the number of tablets purchased with an increased risk of side effects and poisoning as a consequence. Would the Council of State ensure that prescription drugs in minimum packs, except under prescription, are still to be sold from pharmacy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e926	The Ministry of Health sent out, on 24 January of this year, a letter of consultation proposing the sale of certain non-pharmacetic prescription-free medicinal products. This reform is a follow-up to the Government’s commitments in the Sem Declaration. Access to such sales is expected to improve the availability of these products by the public, while facilitating increased price competition. However, the consultation proposal shows that sales outside pharmacies will only be possible to the extent that this does not endanger the health of consumers. This is an important consideration, which has led to proposals for several different restrictions in relation to the sales model and the range of preparations. The safety must be placed in the high-seat. Therefore, there will be good reason to operate with a precautionary principle in this case. It is better to be led than to respond only when the damage occurs. I would like to remind you that the sales scheme has been evaluated after two years. The proposal clarifies that pharmacies still need to ensure the availability of medicinal products to the population. This also includes medicinal products subject to prescription, except prescription, for minimum packages, such as: painkillers should still be purchased in a pharmacy without a prescription. The consultation proposal suggests that such medicinal products may also be sold elsewhere than in pharmacies, but assumes that the same restrictions on the number of packages for sale from pharmacies should also apply to the new sales. It should therefore only be possible to purchase one minimum package per year. The Commission has therefore decided to initiate the procedure provided for in Article 107(1) of the Treaty. The signal effect of careful handling of medicinal products could thus be maintained. The State Medicines Agency has concluded that it would be appropriate to sell, inter alia, minimum packages of: non-pharmacologic painkillers provided the proposed sales model is used. I am asking for an understanding that I cannot give definitive answers on the future regulation until the ministry has reviewed and assessed the comments made by the hearing bodies on the proposal. There are probably many and different opinions about the matter. The hearing period expired on 23 April this year and it is therefore too early to finalise.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e939	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand that what the final conclusion is cannot be anticipated even now until the hearing opinions have been reviewed. However, I would like to point out that until the early 1980s, the sale of relatively large quantities of individual medicinal products without prescription had been made in the pharmacy. Acetylsalicylic acid is an example of this. As far as I understood, marketing was restricted by the fact that there was a prescription for a smaller quantity of some tablets, while in return it was prescribed for a larger quantity. At the same time, paracetamol preparations were converted. However, this occurred in an overall understanding of the need to control the medicinal product market and to have the possibility of consumer information when supplying non-prescription medicinal products. When a good part of the preparations we're talking about here, i.e., acetylsalicylic acid, paracetamol and some other painkillers, are going to go into the shops, the information that existed before. Does the Council of State see any concern about the disappearance of the information?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e948	Let me again state that the same constraints in relation to the number of packages etc. which are valid for the sale from pharmacies, shall also apply to the new sales. Non-discrimination will be applied here. Let me also stress that, in the design of the proposal that has been consulted, the Ministry has had close contact with the underlying professional bodies, in the first row of the State Medicines Agency and the Health Authority. The proposals submitted are assessed by the professional bodies as sound, taking into account the safety requirements which must be overall consideration of increased competition and lower prices. I therefore believe that there is a good balance between these considerations in the consultation proposal. However, the views expressed in the hearing should, of course, be assessed before I draw my final conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e955	In view of the experience gained at the beginning of the 1980s in the case of adverse reactions in children when using acetylsalicylic acid, it may seem that there is a need to show special care with packs to be given to children, since information is of particular importance. I want to point out a different relationship. If you look at – and these are the numbers of the Medical Products Industry Association – the 20 most frequently sold medicines at the Norwegian pharmacy based on the number of packs, 12 of them, as far as I can see, are preparations that could be affected by this change in such a way that they will be sold mainly through business rather than through pharmacies. It is obvious that pharmacies seeking a profit through the total sale will have a significant loss of income associated with those products that will then be sold elsewhere. This could have ring-fenced effects on the ability to operate pharmacies, especially in smaller places where the nutrient base may initially be economical. Does the Council have any opinion on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e962	Let me first say that the representative of Ballo now concludes as a consequence of this reform, namely that the sale of the most sold medicinal products will mainly take place in the food industry, is a conclusion that lacks any basis. What we expect will happen is that a larger proportion of the sales will take place outside of pharmacy. It will trigger competition and pressure on prices. There is some intention, as well as making the safest and most common non-prescription medicines more available. It is clear that how this turns out in relation to the pharmaceutical industry will be an important part of the evaluation we have submitted when this regulation has been in operation for two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e972	I will ask the Minister for Health the following question: ‘The Consumer Inspectors NRK programme on 23 April 2003 informed that health care providers in some places have to pay a great deal for telephone services. In retrospect, it has also been stated that the television offer in some hospitals is very expensive. Such an increase in the financial burden on sick hubarbs cannot be acceptable, and what will the Council of State do to remedy the situation?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e981	Let me first underline the importance of telephone contact between patients and relatives, and the outside world, during a hospital stay. There is also a background for patients’ phones becoming self-evident in hospitals. I am aware that a number of hospitals are struggling with old systems, where relatives via a central desk call the watchroom in the department, and where the caregivers have to go with messages and telephones to the patients. This is time-consuming, it's inappropriate, and it takes care, not least, of the caregivers' attention away from their actual duties in the hospital. Technological developments have made it possible to use patient phones at each hospital bed. This presupposes a telecommunications network that not all hospitals have today. However, technological developments also make it possible and desirable with a greater degree of integrated services at the patient’s bed, i.e. services which include, inter alia: monitoring of patients and communication between patients and watchrooms in the department, as well as telephone. Such a network is not reasonable for the patient to pay, in whole or in part. It is also easier to explain and defend the link between an investment in such a network on the one hand and the improvements that this entails in employment opportunities and thus security on the other. What I have said reflects my clear expectations that health care companies through the development of such networks can achieve a satisfactory solution in relation to patient phones. My opinion, which was also expressed in that programme, is that one finds solutions that would make it cost no more to call a patient admitted to hospital than what it costs to call a phone booth or a mobile phone. As regards the specific agreements that have already been concluded, I have been informed that in the same hospitals it is possible to call and call from regular telephone booths. But I want to add for my own sake that I don't see it as an optimal solution. In addition, health enterprises now have a common national purchasing unit. It will have as one of its tasks the setting up of appropriate framework agreements also on telephony. Experience from other framework agreements shows that there is an appropriate tool to reduce costs for the benefit of all involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e994	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer, which I find very positive. I think it is very good that the Minister of Health stresses that it is not reasonable for patients to be involved and pay extra costs for telephone services, and that something will be done as soon as possible to remove this scheme. It is unreasonable that not least children and older people, including the elderly who are hospitalised directly from hospitals and have very little ability to pay, are required to attend and pay so high a price for having contact with family and relatives. In some cases it is also that people are quickly and unexpectedly admitted to hospital and have to arrange some things by phone in order to make things work while they are in hospital. I hope that the Minister of Health will address this as soon as possible, so that there are change arrangements here quickly, where there are no such prices as have been informed by some hospitals, at NOK 60-100 per year. half an hour for outgoing and incoming calls. As far as television coverage is concerned, I would like to hear what the Minister of Health has to say about the fact that prices have been set on, for example. Just watching the TV news.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1005	In the case of such basic communications services as being able to call their relatives and to keep up with the news, I believe that there should in principle be no other solutions and arrangements when you are hospitalised than what you have outside the hospital. I assume that health businesses are following this in an appropriate way, so that a person gets schemes that are good for patients and that are manageable for health businesses within the framework conditions they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1010	I am pleased with the principle view, and hope that this will be sorted out as soon as possible. I agree that there is a fundamental need to be able to follow what is happening in the world outside the hospital walls when one is an intruder. And it's especially the bedridden patients and the long-term spaces that I'm worried about, that need to get an offer, so that they can keep track of what's going on out there. It is part of the basic needs of well-being and well-being that may also help to make the entire hospital stay more positive and go faster than if you don't get these needs met. I hope that the Minister of Health will contact the institutions that have very high prices for this today, and that they will change this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1017	I believe that the representative of Violation and I fully agree with the fundamental views on this. If the representative Glutvold with his additional questions now requires the Council of State to carry out a price control in all hospitals and follow up where he thinks the prices are too high, I must probably disappoint the representative. I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to instruct the companies at this point, but I'm actually assuming that, based on their responsibility and their clear self-interest in having good solutions for the patients, they follow up and find adjustments that are sensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1036	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1043	I have a question for the Minister of Education and Research: ‘In view of the 2003 State Budget for the Framework Areas of the Church, Education and Research Committee, a majority expressed its opinion on the full financing of the Quality Reform: ‘The majority assumes that the Government is following developments closely, with a view to ensuring that there is no doubt that the Government will follow up the following majority comment of the Innst. S. No 337 [[(2000-2001) (from the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Centre Party and the Left)]] How does the Government follow this up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1052	In the work on the 2003 draft budget, the Government focused on prioritising funds for the implementation of the quality reform, and I believe that in 2003 sufficient funding has been allocated for the implementation of the quality reform. This is also a vision The University and Higher Education Council seems to share with me. Regarding the financing of the Quality Reform next year, this is a question that the Government will come back to in its 2004 budget proposal. The representative of Sortevik also addresses the funding and budgeting system in the university and higher education sectors. The funding system is to a certain extent performance-based and is in line with the leadership of the Stortinget in the handling of the quality reform and later budgets. The purpose of the funding model is, among other things, to encourage universities and colleges to ensure that students are more successful in carrying out the studies and to launch research results of documented quality. I would like to stress that 2003 is the first financial year in which this funding model affects the financial framework of the institutions, and more time and experience is required to assess how the model works. As indicated in the 2003 budget proposal, the Ministry is working to arrive at better indicators to measure research results, and the Ministry will carry out an overall review and assess the impact of the system once the financial system has become more effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1059	I thank you for your answer. It's true, as the Council of State says, that there are funds for start-up. But everyone has the premise that we're going to get beyond start-up, that we're going to get fully involved with the whole reform, that is, get a full implementation. Several calculations have been carried out, including those from the Council of Universities and Colleges, which point to the funds needed for the full implementation of the reform, and also to the fact that it is actually linked to start-up activity in the current financial year, i.e. 2003, where there is a budgetary gap due to a lack of coverage of price, salary and pension expenditure. As far as I know, the Department and the Council of State are well familiar with the calculations in these calculations. Can the Council of State respond to objections to the basis of calculation both related to the full implementation of the reform and to the lack of means of compensation for 2003?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1066	I can confirm that we have a very open and constructive dialogue with the University and Higher Education Council on the need for means of conversion and resources in the sector at all. And if we don't agree on every decimal point, we agreed on how to interpret the different calculations before we put forward the current year's budget, and we have the objective that we should also have the same interpretative basis and the same understanding of the figures before next year's budget. The reform will be fully implemented from the autumn of 2003. The University and Higher Education Council considers that sufficient funds are available to initiate this implementation. Then they've come with wishes for next year's government budget. Of course, we are going into this and we are going into the 2004 budgetary procedure. So there's a specific question about this with compensation of wages. In the third financial year, net budgeting compensates for expected wage and price growth. It's happening to the universities now. It's a 140-million cut. kr, and I can't remember that there's any disagreement about that number between the University and Higher Education Council and the Department.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1075	It is also true that if this under-cover is included in the 2003 price and salary compensation, which seems to be agreed with regard to the amount of money, then until 2004, which will be a university year of full-scale quality reform, there will actually be a lack of substantial funds in relation to what is needed for full implementation, unless compensation is granted in 2004 to cover both 2003 and 2004. I'm not going to demand any budget cuts here, but just point out that there's a risk that it might lack money, and that might have two effects. One is that full implementation is of poor quality, the other is that quality reform is limited to the first year of study, and further work stops. I assume that the Department and the Council of State are not interested in any of the two options, so I interpret the answer as a confirmation of a positive willingness to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1082	I don't think you should go too far in interpreting it this way. This issue of quality reform and its implementation and the need for means of conversion needs to be considered as a slightly different issue. It can be said that this lack of compensation is an effect of the combination of net budgeting and the current form of organisation and association of universities. today. This means that you are compensated in advance for an expected price and salary development and not after-compensation. If you were to follow the pattern of compensation in retrospect, the same principle had to apply if the wage and price developments were lower than expected. I would assume that no one in the sector or any representative of the opposition would have required that. With another form of organisation, however, this would not be the same problem. So this is kind of an effect of being net budgeted and at the same time managing seats with special powers. One might say it is a regrettable system effect, but it lies there and needs to be seen a little isolated from the quality reform and its implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1093	‘The aim of the Quality Reform is to improve the student’s working situation. However, it is obvious that other factors also affect the study situation, including: The economy, housing, health and character pressures of students. In order to put in place targeted measures, it is necessary to have knowledge of how students actually do. However, no survey has been carried out of the student's life situation since 1997. Will the Council of State take the initiative in carrying out a new student life-cycle survey?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1100	At the end of the 1990s, a living conditions survey was carried out to map different aspects of the student's living conditions and consumption patterns. The study was carried out by the Statistical Central Agency on behalf of the Ministry and the National Contact Forum for the Learning Environment. Through the Quality Reform, the responsibility for the student learning environment is strengthened and clarified. The revised Law on Higher Education now states that the institutions are responsible for the physical and mental learning environment. The overall responsibility for the learning environment lies with the teaching establishments, while student relations have to be operationally responsible for student welfare. Consequently, there will be a responsibility for the development of student housing and other matters relating to the well-being of students, which the representative is also concerned with. In St.meld. No 27 for 2000-2001 a new survey on the living conditions of students was announced after the introduction of the new training aid and the reforms of the education system. In such a study, the student's living conditions and how they feel in their everyday study will be at the main focus. Consequently, I agree that a new living conditions survey should be carried out, with the aim of launching this survey in 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1109	I thank you for the answer, and I think it is very positive that the Minister of Education will take responsibility for starting a living-time survey for the students. It is clear that in the context of the quality reform there is a lot of change in the students’ everyday lives – among other things. 10 months of study. The possibility of working during the academic year will I assume will be reduced, because it will simply require more of the students to be at the place of study and follow compulsory education etc. So I think it's very good that the Minister of Education sees this and will start a life-cycle study. A lot of the things that are related to how we think the students are doing go to vision. I'm thinking, for example. that, among other things, the Government It was proposed to cut something in relation to the Student Health Service in Oslo – now the Government took it back in. There's a lot of vision about where we're going to put action in relation to the students. Perhaps the Minister of Education could say something about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1118	I very much agree with what is indirectly indicated here, that having knowledge of status and what leads to improvement is very clever before taking action, and then this is one way to acquire such knowledge. I fully agree with what the representative here indicates, that there are so many changes and changes in the quality reform that it is particularly useful to get knowledge after it has been introduced. That's too much of a background for me not to start this even earlier – because it's been discussed. I think we should have some experience with the real effects of the quality reform and the new education support before we can get some valuable information through such a living-class survey. So I share the opinion that knowledge of status, knowledge of what leads to improvement is important, and that quality reform itself can justify that we are conducting such a study, just after it has been introduced. It may also be interesting – if I can add it – that studies in the European context are being carried out in a broader perspective. It may be interesting in the age of internationalisation to see how things stand in Norway vis-à-vis other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1125	I thank the Council again for the answer. I think the perspectives the Minister of Education has on this are very good. I know that there have been living conditions studies among students in many other places. It is important that we also have it, precisely because our education system adapts to the international system. The more this is done in the context of quality reform. I do not have any further questions to ask the Council of State, and thank you for following up and conducting a living conditions study for the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1134	I can only add that the EU carried out a similar study in 2000. You are now considering whether to carry out a new study, and then we will assess whether that is something we can say.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1139	Nice!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1154	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1160	I have a question for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Recently, information has been obtained that researchers believe that the spawning stock of cod is 3 times that envisaged, inter alia. in the structural message submitted. In the past, the government has made several proposals that all have in common that they assume that there is a great deal of overcapacity. How does the Council of State view the new estimates of spawning stock, and does it not corrode them by fundamental prerequisites for the proposals made by the Government to reduce the so-called overcapacity of the coastal fleet?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1169	It is true that preliminary calculations from the annual screeding octave of the Marine Research Institute in Lofoten show that there is significantly more screeching in the area than that found last year. However, this does not imply that researchers believe that the brood stock is three times higher this year than was actually foreseen. In fact, the amount of screams observed this year corresponds to the forecasts that were made last year. The International Council for the Exploration of the Sea produced forecasts with a spawning population of between 400,000 and 450,000 tonnes in 2003. On the other hand, the amount of shrapnel observed during the last year was less representative of the total, since it indicated a much lower broodstock than the final estimate for 2002 — the same level as this year, i.e. in the order of 400 000 to 450 000 tonnes. This is approx. half of the highest level recorded in the period from the beginning of the 1990s to the present day. The management plan that Norway and Russia agreed on the last harvest, and the calculations that form the basis, correctly suggest a gradual increase in the spawning stock over the next three to four years, but there will be a long one to triple, unfortunately. So there is little stock situation for cod that currently indicates that the need for fleet capacity reductions is less than originally foreseen. In any case, the fisheries management must keep in mind that the resource base fluctuates over time. Few industries live with more uncertainty than those based on biological resources and, in particular, fisheries. This applies to both market, environmental and resource fluctuations. In addition, fishermen have also had to deal with uncertainties related to the allocation of resources between groups and within groups of vessels. Such uncertainty creates little predictability for those who are to invest in this industry. It is therefore important to provide business operators with a framework that is both predictable and stable over time and that can better meet the different uncertainties in the long term. The government takes this seriously and has therefore promoted the big message to which the representative Bastesen referred on structural measures for the coastal fishing fleet. Today, the fishing fleet of relatively old age is too poor and the profitability and capacity for renewal are too poor. If we can now reduce the number of vessels, they can still be allocated enough allowances to increase the profitability and thus enable the individual vessel owner to renew the fleet. This is necessary to ensure the recruitment of skilled labour and to optimise the exploitation of the quantity of fish taken out of the sea. This should also be voluntary measures to help the coastal fleet maintain its position – for that is the objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1188	We have heard in this Chamber the Minister for Fisheries' statement that fishing has been very good and that it has been so fast that there is no need for the trawls to be periodically re-scheduled. So we have it from the Fisheries Minister's mouth that the spawning stock is significantly larger than that proposed by the researchers. My question to the Minister for Fisheries will then be whether it is not time for him to admit that we have more fish available on the coast than was foreseen by the researchers in Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1195	So we've found that it's not right, as the Bastesen representative says, that the researchers think we could have tripled the quotas. I've explained the spawning stock and the calculations that have been made. I would also like to remind you that the Advisory Committee on Fisheries Management — ACFM — which is working under ICES, is meeting in Spain these days. One of the things that needs to be done is to: prepare stock estimates and quota recommendations for cod for 2004. We are waiting for a result from there, and that work will be presented during June this year. Until then, my position is that we have to deal with what the Marine Research Institute has actually been able to tell so far, namely that the amount of screams observed in Lofoten this year is consistent with the forecasts that were used for this year's quota recommendation. So the Institute of Marine Research has not said – I stress it – that this year's screech in Lofoten indicates that the spawning stock is three times larger than they predicted last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1204	I record what the Minister for Fisheries says, but it does not support the fact that the Ministry of Fisheries says that we have poor profitability in the coastal fleet. If a shark goes to sea and has the profitability of going to sea, the shark fisherman has profitability. But he may not have any profitability after the Fisheries Minister's assessment. Can the Minister for Fisheries confirm that it is profitable for the boat when the man in the boat finds that it is profitable – but not according to the Minister for Fisheries?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1209	Yes, you might wish it had been more profitable, then we would have got a better renewal of the fleet. But it is also a fact that the smallest fleet, boats less than 10 m – 65 pst. by the number of vessels - was reduced from 1990 to 2002. We see that it's a dramatic oblivion of the fleet. We see that the recruitment of the coastal fleet is failing. In 1988, one out of three fishermen was under 30 years of age. Today, 12 to 14 years later, one in five fishermen is under 30 years of age. It tells us something about the lack of profitability, and it tells us something about the small quotas that we have, they don't go to all year round jobs. As a result, young fishermen with obligations to their homes, homes and families do not find it interesting. It's a development that I want to be involved in turning around to make sure that it's viable in the industry. I want to change to preserve, and I had hoped that the representative Bastesen, who has a foot on the coast, would realize the need to change in order to preserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1223	‘1880 Numbering information establishes new activities at Flisa in Hedmark. Almost 100 jobs were proposed, but among other things. due to a lack of resources at Aetat to organise training and recruitment courses, only 25 are employed. Sees the Council of State the unfortunate fact that Aetat has such a tight frame, and he can do something to get ahead of the recruitment of labour to, among other things. that activity, so that the period of leave can be reduced?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1230	Let me first make it clear that it must be a general principle that companies that establish themselves must have the primary responsibility to finance the establishment of their own business and must have the primary responsibility to cover the costs of training their staff. This does not mean that Aetat is not responsible, but Aetat has a responsibility towards the unemployed to help them obtain the qualifications necessary to apply for job vacancies. But Aetat's responsibility is not to cover the start-up costs for businesses, just to have said that. In the specific case, Aetat Flisa has already completed two AMO courses in order to contribute to the qualification of jobseekers with a view to being added to the establishment of the company 1880 Numbering Information. The company was established in the cold water by the crew at Jordan AS, and Aetat has shown a clear willingness to participate actively to contribute to the new employment of the unemployed. The involvement of Aetat has been limited by the allocated frameworks and the professional priorities that Aetat has had to pursue in the whole of the county. 1880 Numbering information requested additional funding for a third AMO course. With the recent strengthening of funds to Aetate that took place through the treatment of St.prp. No 44 for 2002-2003, I have been informed that Aetat Hedmark will conduct at least one new AMO course in 2003 to help increase recruitment to 1880 Number Information. In addition, I would like to point out that it is in Aetas' power to decide on specific cases concerning the allocation of resources for action within the appropriations and priorities given by the general government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1241	I thank you for your answer. I have to say, and I think we all agree, that the kind of state activity that actually contributes to getting private business together, also falls easily at the heart of the Minister of Administration and Labour. What will cost the country for many years to come is chosen to deprioritize. A lot of people have said that that's something you have the sense of. These means and the relief provided by Aetat will be the cheapest way to create new jobs in relation to a very vulnerable area in terms of employment — in the East, it may be the most vulnerable area, especially in relation to what happened to the downsizing of Jordan. I just have to repeat my question and my call to the Minister of Labour and Administration, especially because this is a cheap solution for the state, and because it is an area that is very vulnerable and has experienced a lot of downsizing – will the Government consider going into extraordinary action in this region and for this type of job, which is just helping to get a self-employment on its legs?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1250	Let me first clarify that the information I have received from Aetat Hedmark is that you want to start a third AMO course in the current year. And as I pointed out, we feel a very responsibility to help unemployed people get back to work, but I also want to make it clear that it doesn't have to be a means that companies can have to avoid their own duty to cover their start-up and training costs. In the case of investment in the internal eastern region in general, and in the area in question in particular, the Government has already undertaken exceptional measures, including: I have myself opened up the possibility that daily allowances may be used to finance education for up to one school year in a project directed by Hedmark and Oppland County Municipality. So we're doing a special effort in the area. I would also like to make it clear that the priority that Aetat Hedmark has chosen regarding the course in relation to the 1880 number information on Flisa is an example of an extraordinary initiative on the part of the agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1257	I thank you for your answer. I have to say I think it's good, the effort that's made, and it's important. Just one small request: we can agree with each other in relation to the leadership and to the means to be deployed, but the question is whether that is enough, and whether the one course that is coming is sufficient. For these peoples of the Middle East and of Flisa, it is imperative that the activities now being established, among other things, be brought to life. in 1880, but also a lot of other places, so this isn't going to be parts of the country that are actually going to be almost wrecked. I just want to use the chance to encourage further attention and effort after the track that has been followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1266	We have constant attention, and I take that call with me further.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1275	‘High-tech cables have been traversed across the landscape in many municipalities without the benefit of local communities. Telenor and BaneTele have broadband cables through several municipalities in South Trundelag, for example between Støren and Røros, but have no nodes on the route. Nor does it mean access to cable technology and speed, an increasing dilemma for government, local businesses, etc. meeting higher requirements in terms of IT technology and performance against the Internet. How does the Council of State assess the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1282	The questions raised by the representative Borrower concern several policy areas, including telecommunications policy, IT policy and State ownership policy. The current strategy for broadband development is that market actors are financing and building the infrastructure itself. Administrations shall facilitate competition, stimulate public demand and stimulate the development of electronic content and competences. In line with the telecommunications and broadband policy, it is initially the operators’ own business assessments that determine where nodes and interconnection prices are offered. However, current telecommunications regulation requires operators with significant market power to offer access and interconnection at cost-oriented prices. Such price regulation has been a central tool to correct for lack of competition. Both BaneTele and listed Telenor are purely commercial companies, which are not set to pursue sectoral policy considerations. This means that the country must establish generally accepted principles of good ownership. Therefore, companies must make their arrangements on a commercial basis within the telecommunications regulatory framework. The representative Borrower is concerned about how different users should have access to electronic communications infrastructure. In addition to access itself, interconnection between and within the transmission system is also essential for the communication of end-users. The regulation of access and interconnection has been one of the main elements for the transition from monopoly to competition in the telecommunications sector since 1 January 1998. The obligation to provide access has been a prerequisite for new operators to enter the market in competition with Telenor. Competitors have a per- currently access to existing infrastructure through access to the fixed access network, interconnection, special network connection, mobile communications networks and transmission capacity. An important contribution to increasing broadband deployment is also the pooling of local communities to aggregate demand. Transmission capacity prices have fallen significantly since 1996. Telenor has also lost shares in this market. Telenor changed its price structure on leased lines from 1 June 2002. The postal and telecommunications authorities are now assessing whether Telenor’s prices are in line with the cost orientation requirement. Leading lines are a decisive input into the acquisition of broadband. The government therefore considers it important that access prices should not lead to significant cost burdens for broadband use in districts and will continuously assess the need for action in this area. In the context of the ongoing work on the forthcoming broadband roll-out, the Government also assesses the need for specific measures aimed at areas where the market does not provide a broadband offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1297	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I interpret positively. As is well known, broadband connectivity is currently closest to the alpha and omega so that enterprises in Utkant-Norway can be competitive in relation to more centrally located enterprises and enterprises. For general government, schools, libraries, etc. in the districts, such a link is very important. But then we experience that the digital highways like broadband are not equipped with a derailment – or nodes, as it's called – and you can't use these roads. This is the situation in a long-distance municipality like the Holtålen, and it's probably just one of many examples. Despite the fact that the cables capture land and land in the community, they have nothing left. I am pleased that the Council of State refers to the work of the Broadband Landfill Communication, where the Government will consider specific measures aimed at areas that are weakly facing the market. Well, that gives us some hope. But my question is then to the Council of State: can he confirm that the district councils and the edge issue will be particularly highlighted in the big message he announces?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1306	First of all, it's quite right that the representative Lånke says in his description, it's with the electronic highway as it is with the other highway, it goes past many areas that are perceived to be densely populated, but where one is not allowed to crouch on. It has to do with its costs in relation to its expected use. There is a problem in this area, because a key prerequisite for having competitive companies in District Norway is to have access to this high-tech bit that having broadband means. I can confirm that this is definitely one of the absolute main issues we are currently looking at in connection with the broadband message. What action can we take on the part of the authorities, which means that it will also be possible to access this network in the districts to which the representative Lånke refers. I think it will be crucial for business development, for profitable jobs and for housing in these districts. As I said, we've been based on a policy that Stortinget has agreed to, but we now have an assessment of whether we should adjust it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1313	I thank you for that. That sounds good. The question of broadband access and interconnection is largely a question of price and cost. As the Council of State also pointed out in its first reply, prices are downwards, and he also said that Telenor's prices are to be assessed in the Post and Telecommunications Authority. It might be well and good. But there is no doubt that businesses, public as well as private, in rural areas are struggling with great distance disadvantages. And when they, as the Council of State now confirms, are also shut out from these high-speed cables, it only reinforces these problems. It has been said that the IT technology is to balance the regional disadvantages, it should not mean anything where you live. But this doesn't last. The districts are losing in the struggle for jobs. I have a few additional questions: does the Council of State see an opportunity to put pressure on Telenor and the other actors and oblige them to create so-called nodes, so that local communities can use this technology? And can it be relevant to look at economic instruments to improve access to broadband in districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1324	Firstly, it is clear that it is absolutely right that this has to do with price, the cost of making a flat-free junction, so to speak, is tied up in relation to use. It is clear that in some districts it is frustrating to see that the electronic highway passes, but the cost is too high. That's why it's along several lines we're attacking this, for example. in relation to it with competition, and that is perhaps one of the most important things. But technology development is also doing so in fact, so that some areas that were previously cut off, now, by using new technology, do this in a different way. The representative mentions two ways of attacking this at the end of the question. One is to put pressure on Telenor. If the representative thinks that I should do something that is contrary to what we have said about ownership, then I will not do it. As far as economic instruments are concerned, it is part of the news of big business that is now coming, whether we need to put in funds from the state to compensate for the most pig-strike of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1334	‘Since September 2002, NSB AS has announced that they will not operate the passenger services on Ofot Railways following a change of route in June 2003. The Committee on Transport has made it clear in a majority opinion that, if circumstances so warrant, the right to drive should be transferred from the NSB to Ofotbanen AS. What will the Council of State do to follow up the appointment of the Committee on Transport, and what will the Council of State do to ensure passenger traffic after June 2003?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1341	Passenger services on Ofotbanen are part of the agreement between the Ministry of Transport and the NSB on the purchase of passenger services for 2003 and the framework agreement for the period 2003 to 2006. The Ministry of Transport and the NSB agree that this agreement will be maintained, as it is not planned to compete for the purchase of passenger services on Ofotban before 2006. Today, the NSB has an agreement with the Train Company AB, which operates the passenger service on Ofotbanen as a subcontractor for the NSB. This agreement expires on 15 June this year in connection with Connex AB taking over passenger traffic from the Train Company on the Swedish side. Passenger traffic on Ofotbanen is currently part of international traffic by train between Narvik and Stockholm and Gothenburg respectively. I want to ensure that passenger traffic can be maintained after June 2003, when Connex takes over train traffic from the Train Company on the Swedish side. Therefore, in the light of a purchase agreement concluded for the period 2003-2006, the Ministry of Transport and the NSB have agreed that the NSB will enter into negotiations with Connex in order to continue the cross-border train traffic between Narvik and Sweden. In order to ensure satisfactory safety, it is essential that Connex be granted the necessary authorisation/safety certificate to operate on the Ofot Railway from the State Railway Authority. With regard to the relationship with Ofotbanen AS, the Ministry of Transport has at the same time asked the NSB to contact the company and discuss the possibilities for the NSB to develop a regional train offer in the framework of the purchase agreement concluded between the Ministry of Transport and the NSB for the period 2003-2006. This means that Ofotbanen AS is granted the necessary authorisations to operate railway operations on Ofotbanen from the State Railway Authority. I can inform you that both Connex Train AS and Ofotbanen AS have now applied to the State Railway Authority for permission to operate on Ofotbanen. In addition, Connex AB has applied for a safety certificate for driving the Narvik-Riksgren. Connex may establish an international association capable of operating cross-border traffic on the road. The applications are being examined and the supervision estimates that the procedure will be able to be completed relatively quickly. For both companies, they have to dispose of approved rolling stock in order to start traffic on the Ofot track.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1352	I thank you for your answer. I note that what was the intention of the majority of the Committee on Transport that if the circumstances were right, Ofotbanen AS could not take over the right to operate on Ofotbanen, had not been followed up by extending the agreement with the NSB. In the future today, there is a great deal of hope that there will be a train stop in six weeks – that is, six weeks before these agreements expire – and that the NSB is negotiating both with Ofotbanen AS and Connex AS on traffic rights and further passenger traffic on Ofotbanen. Ofotbanen AS has agreed to establish a regional train offer between North Sweden and North Norway. Ofotbanen AS is a Nordic company that is in the start-up phase. Will the Council of State see it as positive if the NSB now has an agreement with Ofotbanen AS to take over the right to operate on Ofotbanen and safeguard the safety conditions of Ofotbanen that NSB currently has?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1363	My answer is very simple: yes, I see it as very positive. I think it is very positive that a Norwegian railway company is set up that is willing to enter the Norwegian network. And as I said in my answer instead, we have asked the NSB to contact the Ofotbanen AS to see if it is possible to establish such a type of regional traffic. But let me go back to the majority comment referred to, where the Committee on Transport has made it clear that, if circumstances permit, the right to drive should be transferred from the NSB to the Ofot Railway. This right of movement is not at present justified. We want this, we want it to be possible to have an opening in order for others to be able to operate. That's why we've been very busy having a competitive outing, but we're not really allowed to do that until 2006. Then we've said that we want to open it up. But it is very positive that such a solution is established, that a company is established, and that they are interested in running today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1370	I thanked for the answer, and I look forward to the establishment of an agreement with Ofotbanen AS on train services/passenger services on Ofotbanen from June 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1378	‘Traffic damage in Eastfold entails a cost per year. thousands of inhabitants of 6.3 million. kr. The whole 27 pst. this applies to road accident deaths in the county. The study carried out shows that Eastfold is very high in both damaged and killed traffic compared to the rest of the country. What will the Council of State do with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1385	The report to which the representative Signe Eye refers was prepared by the insurance company Mutual NOR and was presented. for the press in Eastfold on 25 March this year. Traffic accidents are one of our most serious societal problems, and road safety is therefore a very high priority of the Government. I agree with the representative Eye that the number of accidents on the roads in Eastfold is high and gives cause for concern. Although the 2002 preliminary annual report on road traffic accidents in Eastfold, based on accidents reported by police, shows a decrease in the number of fatalities and serious injuries of 4 pst. Between 2001 and 2002, the number of deaths increased from 20 persons in 2001 to 26 in 2002. One of my most important and perhaps most difficult challenges as Minister of Transport is just to work towards reducing the most serious accidents. In Eastfold, many perished particularly in meeting accidents on the tribal roads, especially on E6. Traffic safety is an important reason why I have committed myself strongly to speeding up the construction of a four-field road with middle parts. From 2005, there will be a four-field motorway from Akershus’ border to Åsgård in Råde, while the entire E6 through Østfold will be completed by four-field road in 2009. I expect that the meeting accidents will be considerably reduced as a result of these developments. Then it's that speed indisputably is very crucial for the extent and severity of accidents. Therefore, due to the high accident risk, the speed limits of E6 through Østfold were reduced from 90 km/h to 80 km/h in 2002, while plans are to extend the use of automatic traffic control, ATK. Also on the E18, the accident situation is serious. For the time being, investigations have been carried out, among others: start of parcel past Ashim. The ATK has otherwise been established on several sub-sections. This, combined with a reduced speed limit, has produced good results in terms of reducing the severity of the E18 accidents. It is also considered here to extend the use of automatic traffic control. Otherwise, less – but effective – road safety measures are carried out on the entire national road network, including the construction of sub/transitions, the channelling of crossings and sidings. In order to reduce the number of accidents on the national roads, the State Road Administration, in consultation with Eastfold County Municipality, has prioritised the improvement of accident points and the construction of walking and cycling roads by allocating the allocated investment framework for the period 2002-2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1402	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is claimed in the report that many of the accidents in Eastfold could have been avoided with a better road standard, and so did the Council of State. We know, as the Council of State also said, that we are doing well to build the four-field motorway on E6 and that four fields are also planned on parts of E18. But progress doesn't go very fast. Now we have Akershus to compare with, and it's pretty similar to Eastfold. There are better roads, and they also have fewer accidents. In Eastfold we have the two heavily loaded highways E6 and E18, and at E18, the expansion, as I said, is very slow. In the worst case, this could lead to that road not finished until around 2015. It means a lot of accidents and a lot of costs. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State attach importance to high accident rates and high costs of road damage when it comes to prioritizing within a given framework of road budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1413	It's almost that I'm amazed at the question, because I don't know how many times I've been in this room and just said that we're very concerned about security when we're going to prioritize projects. This is precisely why we have put so much emphasis on speeding up the construction of the E6 in Eastfold, and at the same time adding that overall we can have a major improvement in the road situation and the accident situation in Eastfold. So I would like to be allowed to repeat again: yes, because the government places so much emphasis on road safety, we have chosen to give priority as we have done. This means that both public authorities and various private organisations carry out important tasks in improving road safety. It's important that we go together. We cannot sit and wait for the roads to be completed in order to settle down on the road safety challenges. We have to get together, and a very good effort is being made in a number of municipalities in Eastfold. I appreciate that very much, because I think the people in the county have earned it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1420	I thank the Council of State again for the answer, but I do not agree that everything that is happening now in Eastfold is as good and as good. It's been a pretty long fight to get there. We're, after all, a state that has two main exits out of the country, and it's very high traffic. The traffic we are now seeing is strongly increasing, and we have a much stronger traffic increase than the rest of the country. And then the council says that it's okay, and that she's satisfied with that, among other things. The E18 shall not be completed until around 2015. That means that in all the years up to 2015 we will get a lot of traffic damage, a lot of killed, a lot of tragic situations, and it's a very heavy burden for both the affected and the immediate families. Then my question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State actually believe that getting the E18 finished in 2015 is acceptable?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1427	I would like to remind you that this government chose to give priority to road development in Østfold, which the government Stoltenberg did not. That's the first thing we got into when we took over the government. I am delighted to recall the efforts this government has made in this area to improve road development in Eastfold. So my clear answer is, yes, this government prioritises road safety very high. We also see that Eastfold is a state we must give priority to, and we have done so. That's what we've chosen to do, despite the fact that the previous government didn't choose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1437	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In relation to Document No: 8:77 for 2001-2002 and Innst. S. No 134 for 2001-2002 on reduced toll rates at national level 5, the Spring Road, asked a majority of the members of the Committee on Transport to assess the introduction of maximum rates for toll projects. When is the Council of State going to come up with concrete solutions in this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1446	During the examination by the Committee on Transport of Document No: 8:77 for 2001-2002 the Government, in addition to assessing a system of maximum rates for toll projects, was asked to carry out a general review and assessment of the toll financing scheme, as set out below. Inner. S. No 134 for 2001-2002. In St. prp. No 1 for 2002–03, the Ministry of Transport gave an assessment of the maximum rates for toll projects, which concluded that the Ministry did not find it appropriate to make any significant changes to the current toll regime, including: because this could prevent the implementation of holiday-relief projects for which there is local agreement. The majority of the Committee on Transport asked for a review of the toll-funded road projects to be carried out by the Government in the context of the National Transport Plan. I can assure the representative of Thore A. Nistad that the Ministry has undertaken the necessary work in order to carry out a thorough review and assessment of different principles relating to the use of the Toll Financing Scheme for the National Transport Plan 2006-2015, presented early in 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1455	Now, it is likely that many people have suggested that the existing national transport plan is mature for the trash. There have been statements such as that such plans are probably not exactly worth it, when they are not being followed at all. But it is a pleasure that the Council of State has started a review, and that you should then come back to the matter. I just want to come up with a little extra question. Toll rates are unusually high, especially for the spring boom. It is 150 kroner for a car, 65 kroner for a motorcycle and 700 kroner for a car combination. This applies to one road. Does the Council of State think that these are reasonable rates for passing a bomb today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1464	This is a project that was adopted here in Stortinget before my time, and these rates were based on the decision that was made at the time. I'd like to admit that the bets are high. But now it's like we have a lot of ferries along the coast here in the country, where you actually pay some kind of toll charge. So doing holiday relief projects where you can in the long run not pay – when the project is paid down, you don't pay – is a very important element for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1472	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Riksvej 3 in Østerdalen had plans for 50 million. In the first draft budget for the East region, they are now gone. For a road that is so important not only to Hedmark, but also to others who use it, this is almost a disaster. How does the Council of State view this, and will the Council of State do something to ensure that Route 3 gets the means it needs to reach an acceptable level?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1481	I agree that improvements to Rv 3 through the Østerdalen are important, among other things. taking into account the high accident rates of the route. In St.meld. No 46 for 1999-2000 on the National Transport Plan 2002-2011, the Ministry of Transport has prioritised improvements to existing Rv 3 between the Elverum and South-Trøndelag border during the first four years. This has been followed up in the Directorate-General for Agriculture's 50 million distance investment action programme. kr for improvements to this section during the period 2002-2005. In the first two years of the period, no investment funds have been allocated to this section, either by the Government or by the Stortinge in connection with the Budget Agreement of the Progress Party with the Government Parties. As regards the preparation of the 2004 budget, this is still ongoing in the vegetation. Therefore, I have not yet taken a position on the priorities to be made between different sections, nor, of course, on the final budget framework. I would like to do this in the 2004 budget proposal, which is presented in October.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1490	I thank you for the answer, which maybe wasn't directly the answer I had in mind, because that's the way the Council of State agrees that it was worth 50 million. kr. They are now removed, and that is very regrettable. When you look at Rv3, it's not any way to think about it. About 90 pst. by the vehicle combinations, the Østerdalen chooses over the Gudbrand valley, because it is shorter and thus more profitable both economically and environmentally. Row 3 is designated by the Stortinget as a tribal road, but only 9 pst. Rv 3 currently holds adoptedradish road standard 8,5 m wide. The road surface is uneven, it is worn out, and no major investments have been made in a series of years. Of course, there will be many accidents of this, as the Council of State said. In fact, from 1990 to 2000, 38 people died on Rv 3, and vulnerable road users have poor safety along the narrow road.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1497	It doesn't lead to the correctness that these 50 million. kr has been removed. The period that we're now in, is the period that the plan is about, so we have several years before the period is over, and there's still opportunities to put money into improvements here. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am concerned with road safety, and I know that it is an accident-affected road. That is why I am concerned that we should implement measures on the road that improve road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1504	I thank you once again for your answer. What's a little bit strange is, as I said, that it was worth 50 million. kr, but in Hedmark no major investments are made, while in the other four counties in the region there is added up to it. Then my specific question is, how important is Rv 3 to the Council of State? How important is Rv3? For those who live there and for those who use it as transit traffic, or for those who somehow depend on it, Rv 3 is very important. The word ‘district policy’ can be used here, and I can also draw on other words. Row 3 is important, and we have to do something with it. There have been so many years since something has been done, and traffic is increasing, accidents are increasing, and uncertainties are increasing. What will the Council of State do in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1511	I expect that we will have ample opportunity to come back to this when we discuss the budget for the autumn. I still want to remind you that the planning period then these 50 million. kr was planned to be used, not yet over, and we still have the opportunity to come back to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1520	I would like to ask the Minister for Defence the following question: ‘The defence intends to centralise the economic offices, which are currently located in the major departments, to Bergen. This centralisation takes place at the same time as the Defence spends considerable amounts on projects that are to have command families move, inter alia. to Inner Troms. Continuing this centralisation of attractive jobs, we are likely to have more commuters in Defence over time. What will the Council of State do in the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1529	One of the most central principles underlying the reorganisation we have in Defence, decided by the Storting, is concentrated structures, clusters of businesses and 5,000 fewer employees. This is the basis for achieving the objective of modern and flexible defence. After discussions with the employee organisations, the Defence Manager has decided to combine the accounting work in one central function and the Defence Manager has decided to add it to Bergen. Enhancing these accounting functions in the defence of one accounting unit is an important part of the delivery project 1 of the Gulf programme. The Programme Golf is an important part of the basis for the overall objectives of the defence conversion. Today, there are 90 different units that make accounts for the defence, and there is a poor use of resources. The unit of account shall in future ensure that the defence can meet the functional requirements of the Financial Regulation within specified time limits. I do not readily agree with the questioner that concentration of the defence activities will in general lead to increased commuting. Geographical concentration of defence activities also allows defence personnel to receive a more varied service within the same geographical area. However, I am concerned that, as a general rule, staff should be able to live where they serve, and therefore we are implementing a number of measures to this end. First of all, we have launched the family project in Inner Troms, which provides support for the creation of jobs and financial support for continuing training for co-locaters. We also have a trial project with babysitting trips. In areas where the defence is to increase its activity, new dwellings are being built and planned for the personnel. These measures aim to facilitate the movement of defence families together to a new place of employment. The aim is a modern, flexible and effective defence that takes care of the most important resource, namely the employees. Then we have to make sure that those who want to do it don't commute, by having the most flexible offer possible, where the defense continues, and that applies to the greater part of Inner Troms.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1555	Now it is not primarily the co-location of the accounting offices that I bring up with the Minister of Defence, although I have to allow myself to say that I have my doubts that the experience will show that one will be able to operate it more efficiently with coordination. But let go, that decision is made. What I'm asking is why you don't use a unique opportunity to locate such a function into a defensive area like Inner Troms, where it's problematic to find alternative jobs. We know that for spouses of defence employees in Bergen it will be much easier to find a job than for example. in Bardu. This is a function that could well have been added to Inner Troms, and that would fit into what I understand is the Government's strategy: the decentralization of state jobs – not only to the big cities, but hopefully also to smaller places. So to ask again, why not choose Inner Troms in front of Bergen, when you first had to do a co-location of this service?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1564	Firstly, I would like to confirm that Inner Troms is the bet area. It's one of the two places where the Defense is betting on the Army. This means that in a situation where the defence is to be reduced by 5,000 people, the Inner Troms will be of the regions and areas that come out clearly best. And it's done intentionally, for Inner Troms is an important area. As far as the accounting unit is concerned, the main point is that we don't shut down a specific activity or activity one place, we take a lot of individual positions and locate it to a new place. Because the head of defence is responsible for the implementation and conversion and because the head of defence is responsible for the completion of delivery project 1 in the Golf programme according to the deadlines, it is also important that the head of defence is given responsibility for the collusion of the accounts. So it's the decision of the head of defense, along with the organizations, that it's going to happen in Bergen, and it hasn't been natural to take it up at political level.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1571	Either the Council of State has not understood the question, or the Council of State will not perceive it. In other respects, another government council from the same government has been accused of overstepping both organisations and stakeholders in relation to relocation from Oslo. I am surprised that the Council of State will not look at such an important matter in a political context as well. It does not help to concentrate more defence jobs in Inner Troms if the labour market offer to the spouses of defence workers is impaired. And then you're going to get an even greater degree of commuting. There will be an even more one-sided labour market, where defence workers will be given jobs, while spouses and others will have a more limited labour market. Therefore, this would actually be a golden opportunity to create a comprehensive and larger labour market offer in Inner Troms, if you had chosen to look at a location at Inner Troms. I am convinced that you would find qualified personnel, you would find suitable premises, and you would get a good service, just as with the Brønn Island Health Registers in Brønnøysund, which is a good example of how it is actually possible to assemble these types of functions even in small places around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1578	I do not doubt that both the accounting unit and other units can be located in different places in Norway. And I fully agree with the representative of Enoksen that many of the locations that have taken place in North Norway, both the Brønn Island Health Registers and, to the extent, the activities that are now being added to Harstad, are good examples of finding qualified personnel in North Norway. But in this case, it is therefore delegated to the head of defence, in consultation with the organisations, to choose the place they think is best placed to assemble the new unit of account. And I have no objection to the decision that the head of defense has made. But I would also like to remind you that Inner Troms is a field of action that most of what we have in Norway is related to the Defence. It's not just the Army that's there. In the vicinity you have the Coastal Chechens in Harstad, you have the Marine Jegs in Ramsund, and you have alliert training in the north, so this is a growing area that offers increased opportunities for jobs. So in the case of Inner Troms, I think you're going to bet on what's already there and further develop it, because it's maybe the region that comes out best overall.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1607	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time. Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-30.ana.ud1728e1620	There is no record.
