ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e74	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group, and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e85	The new law on the introduction of new immigrants is an important reform for better integration in this country, a reform that we must now succeed in. The aim is for immigrants to become self-held as quickly as possible, both economically and in relation to their participation and function in society in the same way as the population otherwise. They shall have the same rights and shall have the same obligations. If we're going to do this, there's some assumptions that must form the basis of the introduction program. Much of the setting is unanimous, but at some points there is a great deal of disagreement, and I will come back to it in the post. I expect the other representatives to comment on their position. The Labour Party has for a long time been a driving force in order to establish an introduction system for our new compatriots. That's why it's a good day today. But things take time in this house. Already in 1998, the promotion, together with several, signed a Document No. 8-proposal for municipalities to launch pilot projects with an introductory programme in several municipalities. The size was associated with this, and 26 municipalities have tried different models – most of them with a good result. This worked. Last year, the Government was ordered by a majority in Stortinget to produce a new law on an introduction scheme, a law that was mandatory for municipalities and obligatory for individual immigrants, with a few exceptions. The government wanted a law that was voluntary towards the municipalities, but the majority of the Stortinget disagreed. It's right to admit that we haven't done well enough to achieve good integration in this country so far. That is why this reform is welcomed from all sides. This is an important reform because we will now turn the offer of newcomers from passive social assistance, to active measures in the form of language training, job qualification and community training – that is good. We know that after five years of residence, the work activity is still only between 30 and 40 pst. Among newly arrived immigrants, and we know that unemployment among immigrants in general is almost three times as high as elsewhere. Here's all the reason to take a power cap. From. On 1 September next year, municipalities will be obliged to facilitate an introduction programme for refugees residing in the municipality, following a residence agreement between the UDI and the municipality. The scheme shall be offered to all refugees and persons who have been granted humanitarian residence and persons who become family reunited with them. Many have believed that the offer should be offered to all those who receive a residence permit here in the country. The Committee agrees on the target audience. But the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party believe that this must be the first step and ask the Government to investigate an introduction program for the many who come here as family reunions. But we probably don't get the majority for that. The duration of the programme may be up to two years. By following the programme, each person is entitled to a salary of 2 G, which is probably NOK 108 000 per year. The right to housing allowance shall also be granted. However, the majority of the Committee has many questions about the housing support scheme and how it will turn out. That is why we are asking the Government to come back with a statement on this in the 2004 budget. Participants in the programme are obliged to meet and participate, otherwise wages are drawn in line with what is done under normal working conditions. Unlegitimate absences are deducted in wages and salaries. Taxes are payable in accordance with the usual rules applicable to employees. This should be a real offer and a better alternative than social assistance, and the individual should not be able to choose social assistance over an individual programme from the municipality. An overall committee calls on municipalities to put in place strict practices so that the offer becomes mandatory for all. The municipalities are going to do the job of making this work. The municipalities are positive and most agree that the scheme can enter into force from 1 September 2004 as a mandatory scheme. That is why the Committee is in favour of it. The positive thing is that many municipalities respond that they can also expect to start the scheme from the autumn onwards. That is why we are in favour of allowing those who want it to start from 1 September 2003, but then as a voluntary scheme for municipalities. But this has some costs for the municipalities that the government has not taken into account. The Government proposes that the integration grant be increased by DKK 6500 per year. Participant per Participant in the first two years, and that it should be given less in the last three years, i.e. no total increase. The central association of municipalities believes that the programme will cost NOK 46 000 per year. Participant per Participant years in extra costs for municipalities and the introduction of an additional grant for the first two years of the programme is compulsory. But the government parties do not agree. It's not long since the Christian People's Party national meeting. At that meeting it was agreed that it would end sending new underfunded reforms to the municipalities. 14 days later, that's exactly what's going on. The Workers' Party will strongly warn Stortinget against once again sending a costly reform to the municipalities without any money. If we are to succeed in this important work, the Storting cannot waive responsibility and let the municipalities pay the bill, especially in today's situation, where the municipalities are struggling with a very tight economy and have to cut the school offer, in the offer to the elderly and in health services. Therefore, the Workers’ Party, the SV and the Centre are asking the Government to return to the Stortinget with full funding of the scheme and to incorporate the costs into the 2004 budget. The progress party is still sitting on the fence. But after the Progress Party during the budget procedure last autumn went in for NOK 1 billion more to the municipalities than the Government did, and went in for SEK 500 million. SEK to municipalities to cover increased expenditure on social assistance in connection with the large electricity bills earlier in the year, there is reason to hope that the Progress Party will not impose on municipalities a new major reform and a new large expenditure item without following up on money. In this case, it is only to note that the Progress Party accepts that this will affect other services in the municipalities, such as poorer schooling, poorer elderly care and poorer health services. So to the settlement arrangement. Here the government parties suffer defeat. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the SV and the Centre, propose that municipalities are not obliged to provide an introduction offer to residents of the municipality, in addition to what is agreed between the UDI and the municipality under the new housing rules. This majority believes that changing the new housing criteria would undermine the entire housing model. which works well. The fact that there are several thousand in reception who have received a residence permit, but not a residence municipality, is the responsibility of the Government. It costs money, we see it in the revised national budget. However, trying to transfer this responsibility to the municipalities is straightforward. There are many reasons why municipalities do not have the power to settle more people. Poor municipal economy is a major factor. The framework for grant schemes of the household bank is different. The subsidies have declined significantly since Bondevik II took over. These are brake blocks for the settlement, with which the government could have done something. Instead, they are now trying to shift responsibility to the municipalities. Norwegian education in reception has been removed from the turn of the year. It becomes more difficult to integrate when many are in reception for a long time while the application is being processed, without the provision of Norwegian training. The Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre therefore propose that Norwegian training in reception should be reintroduced for all, with the exception of those asylum seekers who are in the category considered as groundless. Then there was an error in the settings. On page 30, Decision E, last line, after «The Housing Support of the House Bank» shall read «from 1 September 2003» instead of «as if they were insured». The correct proposal is on page 21. I would ask that the Committee's recommendation to Decision E be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e127	The rapporteur has pointed out a correction, which will be noted. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e132	Signe Eye said there was a great deal of disagreement on some points. I would like to say that, as far as the law of introduction is concerned, there is indeed a great deal of consensus in the committee. But I assume that she was thinking in one area, namely housing in the municipalities. The status today is that there are several thousand waiting to settle, and the municipalities refuse for different reasons. Nevertheless, the majority of the committee today have confirmed that they want a managed settlement. So you can't make individual decisions. If you take initiative yourself and move to a municipality and get a place of residence, the majority, including the Workers' Party, will refuse to introduce a scheme. It's a cross of thought, because we live in a free country, and we can move wherever we want. Is it so that the Workers' Party wants an even slower settlement than the one we're struggling with today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e137	No, the Workers' Party does not want a slower settlement. We want the settlement to go hand in hand with what the municipalities and UDI agree on. But then it is not the way to go to do what the representative Holmberg from the Right wants to do, to oblige the municipalities to give an introduction offer to someone who suddenly appears in the municipality, without the municipality being responsible for it. The good settlement agreement that we have now, and the fact that the municipalities are very willing to accept quite a few, makes this work well. That's why we're strongly opposed to changing this model now. However, if the municipalities do not have money or receive grants from the House Bank, so that they can obtain housing, it is clear that it will be difficult to accept refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e142	The case rapporteur, Signe Eye from the Workers' Party, is quite right that there is a substantial consensus on a compulsory introduction programme. But once we have a decision here, I imagine that we can go in the trap that we believe that the job is done in relation to the integration process, which I will strongly warn against. That is why I have a question for the representative Eye from the Workers' Party. Now that we have put this legislative change in place, in what other areas does the Labour Party see the need for regulatory changes or changes to the law in order to continue or reinforce the integration process, based on the large number of immigrants already in Norway today, but also on the forecasts of the government’s failure — one might say — in relation to the increased asylum migration to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e147	Yes, I agree that with regard to the content of the law itself, there is a great deal of consensus, and there is also great faith that this will be a system that will give a boost to the integration work here in the country. But there's nothing of itself. It's clear that, as I said, there are a lot of assumptions that need to be met in order for us to succeed. And it's very important that we succeed now, even if we don't stand here in five new years and say, "Sorry, we didn't succeed this time either. I took up part of the prerequisites on which the Workers' Party based, among other things. that municipalities must have the financial means to do this. What other areas does the Workers' Party see separately? Well, already in the setting we are asking for a new investigation in relation to other groups, for example. those who come as family reunions. We know that there is still a large group that will not be cared for in the same way as those who are now receiving an introduction offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e154	We are essentially in agreement with the Labour Party, and we agree on most of the proposals and the vote. But there are three points that we disagree on. I thought I would see if I had time to ask the representative Eye about everyone. One is that she underlines very strongly how important it is to ensure that the housing support scheme applies to everyone, as from 1 September this year, because the municipalities are only waiting and longing to get this started. Why, then, does the representative Eye and the Workers' Party not want to extend the housing support scheme and specify that it should apply to all, regardless of whether they also live in dwellings of less than 40 m2? If you don't include these people too, there will be a lot of people who will have problems with high rents in the big cities, where there are a lot of people living on less than 40 m2.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e161	I'll answer one question. I didn't get the other two. This concerns the housing support system and that we do not go in to extend it now to those who live in an apartment of less than 40 m2. The council has signaled that she will come back to that question quite soon. I think it's wise now that we relate to things in the right order. It is likely that the Workers' Party will also go in order for that rule to be lifted, but we believe that that round will be taken when we get this together, and then it will apply not only to immigrants, but also to everyone else in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e168	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e172	Individual action plans are central to the two-year introduction programme to be implemented by municipalities from 1 January 2004 for newly arrived immigrants. All parties agree on the intentions. All parties support the content and minimum requirements, which include Norwegian training, social skills and qualification for work, and that participants receive financial support linked to compulsory participation, instead of receiving social assistance, and all parties further believe that each municipality is free to form the content in excess of the minimum requirements. In other words, there is broad agreement on the law to be adopted today. It is not unlikely that the broad consensus is due to both the history of the case and the fact that 26 pilot projects in 29 municipalities, or urban areas, have since 1999 gained considerable experience and expertise in providing an introduction system for new arrivals. In addition to the experimental municipalities, the vast majority of the hearing bodies are also in favour of the legislative proposal and the intentions, and they support the principle of qualification and benefit. The final reports of these experimental municipalities give a good confirmation that this is the way to go for the work of municipal qualification and integration. I myself am convinced that it is important to put in place an introduction system whereby both the participant and the municipality agree on an individually organised programme for the individual. My own municipality of residence, Skien, has been one of the experimental municipalities. And as the newly elected rapporteur when Skien joined the trial, I followed the arrangement with interest, not only in my own municipality, but also in central collections both in Arendal and Oslo. I therefore think it is worth noting that, like other experimental municipalities, Skien stresses the importance of predictability of the offer of an introduction programme for all newly arrived immigrants in the country. The majority of the population asked the government to make the introduction scheme mandatory. In addition, other legislative changes are also proposed which are fully in line with the experience of the experimental municipalities, as there have been obstacles both in practical and organisational terms. Existing legislation makes it complicated to offer an alternative to social assistance, and many of the project municipalities therefore look forward to a law on the introduction of newcomers. It becomes a law that simplifies, and it becomes a law that improves. The importance of good and planned integration work by municipalities cannot be stressed enough. It's important for several reasons, and I'll briefly mention three of them. Firstly, the introduction of an individually organised mandatory introduction programme will give individual immigrants much better opportunities to quickly become familiar with Norwegian, Norwegian and Norwegian languages. With Aetat as a partner, each municipality should be able to offer regular work to its jobseekers with a migrant background more quickly. I think that the NHO says it well in its consultation opinion to the Committee: ‘Working today is demanding language skills in most areas. A migrant coming to Norway usually needs individualisation in Norwegian language, cultural understanding and expertise before they can work well at a workplace. Individual adaptation should be based early on the wishes and background of the individual at the same time as the needs of the labour market. An introduction programme will create a structure for life early after arrival and help people to function more easily in the workplace.» Becoming a natural part of Norwegian society is important for adult immigrants, but it is also very important for immigrants’ children. My second point is that very many unfortunate episodes in kindergarten, at school or in other children's and youth arenas can be avoided if adults are well integrated, language and knowledge of culture and Norwegian social conditions can be avoided. Immigrants' own culture and values can also be better communicated to adults who have to deal with their children daily. Good communication prevents misunderstandings and increases tolerance. A good integration policy will better transfer new arrivals from passive support to active work. The individual becomes more self-held, gets better self-esteem and better quality of life. In addition to the benefit of the individual, the large community will also reap the fruits of good integration work. Immigrants who get good follow-up come to work faster. This will reduce or eliminate the need for social assistance. Value creation in society is increasing and municipalities receive increased tax revenue. The situation of the municipalities is the third area I want to present as an argument for the introduction scheme. In the long term, the law will mean financial savings for municipalities, as well as the benefits for the individual. Not surprisingly, many of the hearing bodies point to the financial situation of municipalities. Both KS and several municipalities believe that the implementation of the scheme will entail increased costs. We also heard that in the statement from the rapporteur. It is clear that these are serious signals, and I show here that the government parties do not want the municipalities to bear any additional costs in implementing the mandatory introduction system. This can be seen in the Committee's own comments. In the Right, we agree with the Government that the training elements themselves in the introduction programme will not mean significant additional expenditure for municipalities. This is because the vast majority of municipalities today operate training measures for newly arrived immigrants — in particular Norwegian education, but also a number of other services. However, during a transitional period, the scheme will generate new administrative costs. This need meets the Government by redeploying the integration grant so that municipalities get more of the total amount in the first two years. In addition, the rates of integration grants to municipalities are assessed at inter alia: starting from the annual result of the Calculation Committee. It will be both natural and necessary for the Government to return to the inclusion of any additional expenditure related to the conversion of the integration grant, the intensification of Norwegian training and the extension of the housing support scheme in the annual government budget proposals. It is natural to discuss economics in the context of the treatment of government budgets. Otherwise, we refer to the system of annual consultations between the KS and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. I would like to stress that here KS has an important job to do. They have worked a long time and a lot with the introduction system until now, and they will certainly continue to follow up and take care of the interests of the municipalities in this way. I have great faith in the consultation system that is established. Otherwise, I would like to point out that already in the current year's budget, 7 million were allocated. NOK to UDI, so that the process towards the municipalities could be started. Furthermore, the item Municipal measures of immigrants were increased by 30 million. kr, just to support community training programmes for newly arrived refugees and immigrants. So we're doing well, and here, as in many other areas, much will be up to the will of each municipality and the ability to perform a good craft. According to State guidelines, municipalities are required to provide newcomers with an introduction programme for immigrants. The framework will be laid down and the possibilities will be provided. The right is satisfied that there is a unanimous committee behind the overall guidelines. That gives good signals. For the right, it is very important in this matter to highlight local autonomy and municipal freedom of action. Of course, municipalities must choose to put in place schemes that are better and perhaps more comprehensive than the law provides, but it must be up to the individual municipality, based on its own independent assessment of its overall resource base. It is in the municipality's own interest to carry out the best integration work possible. It'll give you more money. It also gives local residents a better local environment. In several areas, the Committee expresses the same view. It is good for our future local democracy when the parties in several areas of this matter refer to the local self-government and the judgements that can and must be made. I have chosen here to bring out the positive in relation to the municipality's own free will. I could have easily pointed out the areas where the opposition is much more detailed than I appreciate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e218	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e221	Today we have a municipal sector that wears out very financially. We are constantly experiencing cuts within the school and within the care of the elderly. In addition, we have a house-bank that has too little funds, and in many places in the country there is a building-stop when it comes to these types of dwellings. Then the Storting will bring a new reform to the local government sector. Does the representative Holmberg think that the municipalities should find room for this new task, when they already announce that they have to cut the school and cut the elderly? Does the representative of Holmberg think that the reform will be successful if a non-full-financing requirement is raised? And would the Right in that case be in favour of the requirement that all new reforms should be fully financed hereafter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e228	We have a long tradition in this country to accept immigrants and refugees. Municipalities have been working on housing for many, many years. There is no revolutionary news we are dealing with here today. We require municipalities to introduce a mandatory introduction system. It's just positive. Housing work has been carried out by municipalities in the past. In connection with all state budgets, we are prepared to discuss and look at the framework we lay down. For the autumn we get a housing message, which we will also discuss with the Norwegian people. I'm pretty sure we're getting a successful result from the integration system, because it's in the municipality's own interest to do a good integration work. Municipalities are now receiving integration grants as before. They have to organize in a slightly different way, but the tasks have been there in the past as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e237	The representative of Holmberg is quite right, is that we have years of experience in integration. But the representative Holmberg does not include is that we have years of poor experience, with a miserable result. With that reform, or the law, that we're dealing with today, we're going to think we're going to be able to reverse that trend. I also record that the representative Holmberg says that if we reach the goal, if we meet the intentions we have, it will bring benefits not only to the municipalities, but to society in general. I would challenge the representative of Holmberg on the following: Will it also bring benefits in the long term, when we know that the Right does not have any restrictions on immigration, when the Right now wants to facilitate immigration by saying no to transitional arrangements in relation to EU enlargement, when they say yes to increased labour immigration from outside the EEA area, and when they say yes to extending the Asylum Institute to people who are persecuted on the basis of gender?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e244	I almost don't know how to deal with such claims. We have a long experience of integration. It's black paint when Per Sandberg says we have a terrible result. There is a lot of good work done in a lot of municipalities. It is clear that there have been some unfortunate incidents and that there are some areas where we have problems. We also have municipalities that do not want to accept immigrants. We have many challenges in this area. It's a lie to say that the Right has no limitations. Right-wing wants good integration, and good integration requires that we deal with those who come to the country in a sensible way. We need a law and a regulation that provides a tight framework, and we need to deal with it well within the framework and the rules we have. It's Right's greatest wish, and we have a government council that's taken hold of this area, and that's done a lot of good work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e253	The President will argue that saying that another representative is lying is hardly in line with good parliamentary practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e256	To the previous reply, I would say that the most important thing is to ensure that we have a humane refugee and immigration policy, in line with international conventions and what has been the tradition here in the country. Everyone agrees that it will be worthwhile to introduce these introduction programmes that we are now planning, both humanely for them, and for the municipalities and society as a whole. What is the big challenge here is that the municipalities have said clearly that there is not enough money. We are in the process of introducing another state reform that is not going to be followed by a full pot. The promise from the government was that there would be housing support, they would make sure there was more money in the first few years, and then they would make sure that there was more support through Aetat. In reply to questions from SV, however, it is clear that there is not initially much more money for Aetat, and the housing aid is intended to cover much less. So I ask, how have the Right intend to make sure that this is properly funded?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e265	If Heikki Holmås had followed when I kept my post, he would have perceived what is the Right Position. Integration grants already have municipalities. In order to meet the needs of the first two years of the plan conversion, the rates are increased in the first two years, while they are more normalised beyond the period. Then we have the annual budgets to deal with, where we'll have to discuss the situation based on the reports the Calculation Committee is going to give in this area. It's clear that we're following the situation with the arctic eyes. But my main point is that this actually does not bring any big news to each municipality. The individual municipality already has an integration work. It's about organizing it in a different way, and improving it on certain points. In some areas, conversions and reinforcements are required. And Aetat has now been strengthened by 300 posts, just to get them to cooperate better with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e274	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e277	Let me first say that I do not take so much damage from being called lies by Right Representatives, because it is beginning to be a repetition that I in some way accept, assuming that I realize that the Right has very great problems in accepting that they are on the wrong course and are unable to correct the course so that they can do something about the problem. And now, after the last line change, I understand that. Now I understand why this government, with a Right-State Council, has no ability to do anything about either the immigration problems or the integration problem. It is because they do not recognise that there are problems, as opposed to a total collapse on 18 April last year, where all parties indicated that the integration process in Norway has failed. And then I understand that we stand firm, as we do. I have earlier today also been accused by the Council of State of changing the argument from case to case. That's possible, that's why I kind of wanted to tell you right away that when the Progress Party is talking about integration policy, we're able to see the breadth. We do not stand up, as the Council of State and some other politicians do, saying that there is a difference between integration policy and immigration policy. In fact, we are dealing with what the Danish Council of State's colleague says and maintains. If we are to succeed in the integration process, we need to see it in the context of the type of immigration we have into Norway, regardless of whether it is asylum immigration, whether it is labour immigration, or whether it is family reunification. The point is that we have to accept that here we're talking about about about hundreds of different nations, here we're talking about hundreds of different cultures and hundreds of different traditions. It is not useful to dig into the sand and say that integration has no connection with the people who come to Norway. This is where the Progress Party stands out significantly in relation to all the other parties – and takes responsibility. I am very pleased that at least we in the Progress Party in Norway receive relatively large support from all EU countries – I repeat: from all EU countries. Although it has been pointed out that the process carried out by the Danish Left in addressing the problem has been substantially criticised by Norwegian politicians, it has now received substantial acceptance in the rest of Europe. Denmark has been a bellet – yes well – but now the process is blowing like a wind in Europe, and even the High Commissioner sees that part of what Denmark has done, including the Danish Refugee Council, is right. But here in Norway, we still stand by and talk about individual groups. That's selective thinking, and that's why we're taking away from it. That is why the Progress Party is constantly being accused of having a hidden agenda, of humbling under fear of alienation, etc. I realize it takes time. I think it is sad that in the last year we have experienced so many situations that have confirmed that we are in a situation that requires action, and require action now. Not least, it requires action when we see what the Government and the majority of the Storting want in a further process. The Progress Party has made many proposals here today. Many of them have been promoted in the past, so the parties here in the Chamber cannot say that they have not had this to assess, or that the proposals have been made at a time when they have not had time to assess them. It'll be too bad. They have had years to assess these measures that the Progress Party is proposing today. It should have been easy to see what we are exposed to. Otherwise, I have to say that the introduction program available for treatment now is very much appreciated by the Progress Party. I remember, and I should have liked to have quoted many statements from various politicians, when we first demanded compulsory Norwegian education for immigrants – yes, then we were selective! Then we were racists! Then we also had a foreign agenda! But now, almost 15 years later, the majority of the population is standing there and boasting that this is very necessary. I'm glad. I'm also very happy that they agree that social education is going to be part of this, and I'm glad that also work training is going to be part of it. But that it will take so long for the political environments to have these grips taken 20 years ago! Therefore, the challenges today are of such a scale that I think we need to think beyond the introduction program that exists here. That is why the Progress Party has promoted many alternative proposals that will be put to the vote today. Then it'll probably take three or four years – if it's not someone who whispers in the ear that we should have done something about it, and then they'll be satisfied with it, because then they've at least told the government that there's a problem here. But that's not the way to run politics. If you're going to run politics, you're gonna have to act. I honestly think it should be possible to cross party boundaries in such contexts. But we also have hopes. We have hopes that this introduction program will help. On the other hand, we are very afraid that the law of introduction – when it comes into force – will not have the meaning that it could have when the majority in this Chamber continues a huge immigration as well. Both the influx of asylum, the immigration of labour and the expansion of the asylum institution will result in even more people coming to Norway. At the same time as addressing the challenges facing all those people who are now to be integrated, the majority is opening up to further challenges by increasing immigration to Norway. When I say that on the part of the Progress Party, it is because I have a hidden agenda, of course. That is why, in the Progress Party, we have also said that if we are to deal with the process of integration, the Council of State, the Government and the majority of the population must understand at some point that it is a connection – with all the people who come tomorrow, those who come next year, and those who come in 2005, because they will affect the process. In relation to what I opened my post with, I just want to say – I might not spend so much time on it – that I also saw that the representative Holmberg was very engaged, and almost excited, in relation to the fact that I accused the Right of a lot of things, and that it is interesting to note that the immigration policy spokesman in the Right has not recorded that there has been a whole lot of reports and investigations in the last year, there has been research, there have come books and now, last but not least, a significant report from an organisation that knows the problem, which points out that we have a huge problem if we don't take any action now. If the representatives of Stortinget are not interested in taking the views of the professional community and of the organisations receiving State funding to look at the problem, nor do they take the signals coming from the rest of Europe, then much of the introduction programme has been discarded. I expect that I've talked to myself a few lines. I don't ignore that. Finally, I would like to promote the very good proposals made by the Progress Party in the vote. I find it sad that the majority in the Grand Duchy is not now crawling, simply, to the cross and realizing that these proposals are necessary if we are to succeed in the long term in the process of integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e299	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The representative is quite right that he has behaved a few lines. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e304	The promotion party helped to secure the municipalities NOK 1 billion more during the treatment of the government budget in the autumn. Representatives from the party have subsequently been very offensive, and told the Norwegian people that they have contributed to the municipalities getting more money. At the same time, the Progress Party demonstrated an commitment to ensure the well-being of municipalities by entering into that allocation. The Progress Party has once again an opportunity to show that they think something about the efforts in the municipal sector, if they agree to vote on the SV, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party's proposal to complete this reform. The representative said to run politics, you had to act. That's why I'm very excited about the power of action of the Progress Party and the Sandberg representative in giving the municipalities an opportunity to really get a good reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e311	Yeah, we're gonna take action. But I'm inclined to keep the representative's eye a little further on the pier. The reason for this is that we in the Progress Party have a position which means that this introduction programme will result in less expenditure for municipalities than the majority have voted on. But it is clear that if it is that the majority wants to spend more money than we do, and we lose that voting, it is up to us to show responsibility by substituting for a proposal that ensures that the municipalities can get the full funding of the reform. The representative is quite right in that. That's exactly what we've done. It shall not be possible, regardless of the government, to take a decision which would result in the money not being included in the local government sector. I actually think I'll wait until further into the debate, and maybe until after voting. But now I have said so much that perhaps the representative Eye has been somewhat calmed down in relation to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e320	I hope that the representative Sandberg does not wait until after voting, but clears it before voting, so that we can at least be aware of what we decide here at Stortinget. I would say one thing: SV disagrees with a good part of the proposals made by the Progress Party. Some of them we've dealt with before, and we kind of have different views about them. The main reason for this is that SV disagrees with the Progress Party that – which is obviously the point of the Advance Party – you get the best integration if people crawl. I noticed that he also wanted us other deposit representatives to crawl to the cross, but we have no faith in that. We're concerned that people will get a good start, and that we have to set conditions. We have to give people carrots, and then we have to make conditions for participation in the process of integration that is going on. That's what the rest of the representatives here in the room agree on. My challenge to the Progress Party is: Why will the Progress Party not be on the proposal of the majority, namely to give the other people who come here to the country the right to participate in the introduction programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e329	First of all, I think I can wait a lot longer. I am at least waiting for voting in Stortinget before making any decision. This need not be decided today, in fact, because this is a proposal to be submitted to the Stortinget. When we restrict participation in the programme to individual groups, it is simply related to the representative of Holmås and the majority of the majority in the Grand Duchy, namely an enormously liberal immigration policy in relation to both asylum, refugee and reunification policies. If we're going to open up all of these groups to participate in this introduction program, we're talking about huge sums. Then there is a question of whether the municipalities are able to deal with this. Only last year 15 000 people came to Norway for family reunification. Furthermore, there were well 5,000 people staying on a humanitarian basis, plus 1,000 quota refugees and then labour immigration as well. That's why we in the Progress Party say that we want to be detained here, while saying that the custody of married couples should rest on one spouse.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e336	The batch of progress is positive for the new introduction program. It was supposed to be lacking, because it is true that the Progress Party has long been committed to better Norwegian training and a greater emphasis on training in social conditions. And now it comes. But then the Progress Party claims that the Government does nothing, even though the Government actually returns groundless refugees faster than before and has actually reduced this stream from 40 pst. last year to 10 pst. this year. That must mean something. What does the Progress Party mean to do with people who come to our borders and ask for protection? Should we ignore the fact that many actually need protection in our value, ignore international conventions and send them headlong back to their destiny, without investigating the truth? That's the problem. That's what takes time, to investigate the truth in the refugees' stories. Isn't the Progress Party concerned that if we're too hard-handed in this area, we can actually leave persecuted people in the hole?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e343	The representative has to point out, on the same line as the Council of State and the Right, that it's 30-40 pst. reduction in unwarranted applications. I deal with the actual figures, and that is that since 1997, when Bondevik took over the government premises for the first time, the influx of asylum to Norway has increased by 700 pst. In 1997, 2,700 arrived, and last year, 18 000 arrived. These are the actual relationships I'm dealing with. At the same time, the number of people staying has increased considerably since 1997. Whether there are unjustified or justified applications, there is no argument that we should be in favour of liberalising these applications. Even if 30-40 pst. of the unfounded applications, there are still 80 pst. who are refused to stay in Norway. That's the actual ratio. And when we don't manage to reduce the processing time, because we're going to keep all asylum seekers almost the same as before, as opposed to the rest of Europe, we get this development. In relation to human rights, the Advance Party wants to strengthen the institution of asylum, not destroy it, as the majority do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower.ana.ud2475e352	The cord shift is over. It is also the regulatory time for this morning’s meeting. The meeting is now lifted and set again at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
