ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e76	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e85	There is every reason to be satisfied with the information the Stortinget has received from the Ministry of Defence on the Program GOLF, among others. by letter of the Department of the Council of State to the Defence Committee dated 13 March 2003. The cost estimate for Project GOLF, to which the proposers refer from the media, of DKK 1.8 billion, has been obtained on the basis of the estimated total cost of Project GOLF in the summer of 2001, which the Ministry has not approved. The current Minister of Defence, Bjørn Tore Godal, intervened in September 2001 in the facility of Project GOLF and amended the strategy for the implementation of a common integrated administration system in Defence. The majority believe that the Ministry and Defence should follow the strategy put in place for the implementation of the programme GOLF at the Ministry’s intervention in the autumn of 2001 and on which the Stortinget has been informed in the past. The majority of the Committee is aware of the existence of a report by the National Audit Office on the old project GOLF and its predecessors, the National Audit Office’s study of effectiveness in planning and managing common management systems in defence. This report is expected to be transmitted to the Stortinget in the near future. The majority of the Committee considers it inappropriate and unconstitutional for the proposers to refer to a non-final and non-authorised main analysis report published on the Riksrevision website. The majority of the Committee is satisfied with the conversion which ensures significantly greater political control than the old Project GOLF. There is reason to be satisfied that the chosen strategy for the implementation of the programme GOLF brings up a number of projects with their own costs and objectives to be approved by the ministry individually. This strategy involves the inclusion of several decision-making points in the implementation of a common integrated management system, each project being assessed and approved on its own merits and contributing to the implementation of a common integrated management system. This provides better governance and cost control along the way than would have been the case by bringing together the entire implementation of a large project, which was originally done for Project GOLF. Another important principle is that each project should have a intrinsic value, irrespective of any subsequent project. The majority have noted that until the department has taken a decision on the final facility of the Programme GOLF, there will also be no overall official cost picture of the programme. The majority of the Committee considers that the Ministry of Defence’s assessment of the situation is correct. The Ministry of Defence should follow the strategy put in place for the implementation of the programme GOLF at the Ministry’s intervention in the autumn of 2001 and on which the Stortinget has been informed in the past. The aim of implementing a step-by-step implementation of an integrated defence management system is to reduce both economic and implementing uncertainty. This will also increase the likelihood of succeeding in introducing a common integrated management system into defence. The size will be kept continuously informed about the development of the programme GOLF. The first reason for this is the 2004 budget proposal. I therefore recommend the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e117	Let me first join in what the rapporteur said. So I would like to add that it is important to stress that large and large-scale data projects in the public sector have occasionally tended to get out of control, out of political control and, not to mention, out of economic control. Major budget excesses and deficits, combined with very uneven results, have been the consequences. Unfortunately, the defense is no exception. The whole committee is concerned about this, let me stress it. It is a unanimous committee that is concerned about this very thing and that will follow closely also on the data projects that come next. Both Project GOLF from 2000 and GOLF’s predecessors are well known in this way. During the 1990s, the defence launched several efforts to meet the need for timely and comprehensive information systems for better and more rational governance and management. However, the Golf precursors failed to achieve the objectives set and have therefore not been able to meet the deadline for adaptation to economic legislation by 31 December 2002. As the rapporteur also emphasised, this is likely to be pointed out in a report by the Riksrevision which comes to Stortinget in the near future. It will be treated in an ordinary way by the Storting. Due to developments, then Minister of Defence Bjørn Tore Godal decided that it was not possible to process, approve and transfer Project GOLF as a Category 1 project to the Stortinget in the autumn of 2001. In September 2001, Godal therefore intervened and stopped Project GOLF, which was available as a total project. He took the initiative to transform GOLF into a programme that was divided into phases, where a new contract is concluded for each phase, with a thorough evaluation before proceeding to the next phase. And as the rapporteur said, this is what the Stortinget has been informed about in the 2002 budget proposal. The Defence Committee had no objection to this conversion in its budget configuration. The conversion means that we are guaranteed a significantly stronger political control and governance – that is what Godal’s intervention meant – than in the original project GOLF and its predecessors. Int. S. No 232 for 2001-2002, which was thus the committee's decision on the implementation proposal, a unanimous committee asked that all aspects of the GOLF programme be assessed on an ongoing basis and that the Stortinget should be informed in the annual government budgets. In the Committee's budget position for the current year, we asked the Government to return to Stortinget with information after the completion of delivery project 1. Today’s suspension repeats the demand for the Stortinge to receive a full evaluation report after the first phase, which we expect to receive in the autumn’s budget proposal. Having said all this – and I feel quite confident that this is now happening in order – I think it is important that we do not end up in the situation that we do not see the forest for just trees, because the defence is in the biggest transformation process ever, the biggest reorganization of the public sector in modern times in Norway. This reorganization into a more robust defence adapted to new threats and with increased cooperation and interoperability with other NATO countries is very demanding. The deliveries from Program GOLF are a prerequisite for changing the defence's working method, organisation, instruction and command line. The conversion is simply dependent on the Program GOLF. According to the Ministry, the re-use value of the existing solution is dramatically reduced in relation to the structure, instruction lines and the ongoing processes currently being worked on in order to obtain a forward-looking and modern defence. In other words, we must not get into the situation that we are now plunging into the wheels of a programme GOLF with good political governance, and where we get evaluation after each stage, as we have asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e132	The work on the GOLF programme has been ongoing since 1992. For several years, Stortinget has feared exceedances in the cost of the programme and has twice asked to be continuously informed about cost developments and other progress in the programme. The rapporteurs must therefore take note of the fact that, despite this, the majority of the Committee does not wish to see a wider political review of the GOLF programme. The proposers believe that the conclusion reached in the main analysis report of 28 January 2003 just demonstrates the need for a broader political review of the entire programme, so that the agreed assumptions of the Storting can be met. The Minister of Defence claims that GOLF is expected to contribute to greater savings by the end of 2005 — a relatively long time perspective, where a much more concrete guarantee is required, in relation to large sums. The proposers point out that the transformation from project to programme was made in order to reduce the risk. Nevertheless, I would argue that the uncertainty about the costs is still high. There are further questions about realism in the claim of savings, as a number of deadlines so far in the process have been pushed forward. The main rationale for making Project GOLF of the GOLF programme related to implementation and costs. Splitting the project into smaller parts meant that the uncertainty of each project would be reduced. I do not agree with that. I can't see that the total cost is reduced by such an implementation. The proposers have noticed that the Government – incredibly, I would say – believes that it is impossible to present a fully developed programme. So the government is going to run a program they don't even have the full economic overview of. The Minister of Defence himself says that there is no approved overall framework for GOLF beyond the 2003 budget year, despite the fact that she expects savings by 2005. What's she building it on? In its answer to a written question of 17 December 2002, the Council of State points further to the uncertainty that each project is planned separately and that it is not possible to obtain an overall picture of the total investment costs. Why has the programme been split when it loses its financial overview? In relation to this type of project, with this type of implementation rate, I have no faith in cost savings. On the contrary, we would rather experience the same supplier for all sub-projects, with a level of costs that is therefore not fully understood and which is largely on the supplier's premises. Therefore, when we are in the situation that the project is divided, while we do not have an overview of the economy and the pace of implementation, the proposers will ask that a breath be taken in the ground and that a full evaluation be carried out of the programme. If you go into a programme as comprehensive as GOLF, it is pointless and irresponsible not to have the full overview. This was not the Storting's premise, and this the Storting can't live with. The proposers believe that Stortinget is entitled to know if it is the Government's intention to spend a total of more than NOK 2 billion on implementing this programme. So far, there's nothing for me to suggest that that's not the case. Finally, I put forward the proposal of the Party of Advances, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e155	The representative Per Ove Width has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e158	The issue is about the introduction of the new defence computer systems that have been known as GOLF in recent years. The proposers have asked for a review of different aspects of this system, both what has happened up to now and what it entails for the continuation. The starting point for the proposal is two things. Firstly, there have been figures from the Defence through the media, suggesting that the original Project GOLF, which later became the Program GOLF, will be far more expensive than anyone has thought, even within the Defence Department, and that implementation can be delayed. Secondly, the Storting has, through unanimous remarks in the Inner East. S. No 238 for 1999-2000 and Innst. S. No 316 for 2000-2001, asked to be kept continuously informed about the development of the project and its cost aspects. So it hasn't happened enough. The majority in the Committee do not want a broad review of the Golf programme now, and I quote from the majority of the comments in the vote: ‘The majority are satisfied with the conversion that ensures significantly greater political control than the old Project GOLF. The new GOLF Programme will conclude a new contract for each phase with a thorough evaluation before proceeding to the next phase.’ It is a prerequisite for a successful reorganization of defence that this programme will be fully implemented. The problems that Program GOLF is going to solve are going to be the same in total, even if you divide them into pieces. Of course, it's a good point to divide the program into phases as you've done, to be able to finish the program when you have to feel like it. It is positive, but one should not be fooled into thinking that it will be cheaper for that reason, especially when the implementation of the entire programme is therefore a prerequisite for achieving the expected gain in fewer employees and savings in operating costs. I quote from the majority remarks: ‘The Golf programme, like other major IT and conversion projects, is complex and is therefore associated with considerable uncertainty in its implementation’.» I share this notion of complexity. That is why some of us believe that it is important for Stortinget to get a full overview now, in order to take the necessary responsibility. I quote from the comments of the majority: ‘The majority have noticed that the Program Golf is coordinated with and constitutes an important integrated piece in the ongoing defence conversion. In this context, it is important to assess the risks associated with a possible spill-over in the Programme Golf against the benefits that this may bring in the conversion of the Defence Force, where the Defence Manager is required to dismantle with a minimum of 5000 annual works – as we all know – ‘by the end of 2005’. This is a central point in this matter. In many cases, the time is too short to implement the programme as a full evaluation sequence if it is to be completed during 2005. And if you continue the program, it's hard to take advantage of the previous phase, not least financially. There are, therefore, considerable problems already in getting the change in defence to come on time, cf. the defence manager's opinions in the Defence Forum No. 7, who came a few days ago, talking about a "crisis understanding" of the situation. I would like the crisis awareness to extend to this issue too, and to this Chamber, because all these matters are linked. GOLF is an important prerequisite for making the transition, not least in the Defence Logistics Organisation. In my view, it is unclear when the benefits of the GOLF programme can be taken out, and whether, in sum, savings will be made, taking into account the estimated costs of implementing the programme. I would like to quote from the comments of the majority: ‘The majority refers to the fact that the Programme Golf is subject to political control and therefore asks the Ministry to return to the Stortinget with more information on the Programme Golf in the 2004 budget proposal and that the Stortinget receives a full evaluation report after the first delivery project has been completed.’ One might wonder how a majority here in the Chamber might think that the political control of this project is good, when one does not now want a review of the programme here in Stortinget. It may be said that political leadership is given to the programme and governance of the Government, but some political control should be careful to invoke. Political control is not exercised in the ministry, but here in the Stortinget, and the majority therefore believe that this is done through information and evaluation. I believe that it is best done by making clear political decisions that can then be verified – at least when we are talking about investments in the billions class. I'm not going to say anything special about what the Riksrevision has analysed up to, because it's kind of unconstitutional, but I really look forward to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee taking this matter into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e198	The Christian People's Party is in the majority of the caste. I agree with the statements made by the rapporteur, and also the comments made by the chairman of the committee, who took up the most important parts of the setting in a good way, but I want to clarify some points. Since 1992, the defense has been working on plans for a comprehensive computer program for economic and logistical management in Defence, known as GOLF. The background has been the need for timely and comprehensive information systems in order to improve and streamline governance and management. Project GOLF was formally launched in June 2000 and was amended to golf programme in December 2001. It was then the Minister of Defence Godal who intervened in the facility of Project GOLF in September 2001 and changed its strategy. The change was linked to quality assurance recommendations in order to maintain the overall perspective and ensure the gradual and verifiable introduction of a common integrated defence management system. The Stortinget was informed about this in the Budget Centre. S. No 7 for 2001-2002 and in St.prp. No 1 for 2001-2002. The GOLF programme, like other major IT and conversion projects, is complex and is therefore associated with uncertainty about its implementation. The programme provides for a number of projects with their own costs and objectives to be approved by the Ministry individually, ensuring political control, for the Ministry also has political leadership. In the view of the Christian People's Party, the inclusion of more decision-making points in the implementation of a common integrated management system, where each project is to be assessed and approved on the basis of its own merits and contribution to implementation, will provide better governance and cost control along the way than would have been the case by bringing it all together in one project, as originally envisaged in Project GOLF. Another important principle is that each project shall have a intrinsic value independent of any subsequent project. Until the department has taken a decision on the final arrangement of the programme GOLF, there will be no overall official cost picture of the programme. However, the main challenge for defence is to change the way in which the defence is operated and the organisation resulting from the delivery of the programme. Program GOLF is an important piece in the ongoing change of defense. It is therefore important that a common integrated management system is put in place as quickly as possible. It is also important with good political governance and an evaluation that ensures that the product becomes what the Defense needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e213	I think I'll start my post by commending my predecessor, former councillor Bjorn Tore Godal. Just the fact that the defense had worked for a long time on new computer systems that later got the name Project GOLF and Program GOLF, was the reason why he divided it into phases – just what the Riksrevision has pointed out, and that was reproduced in several media. The fact that there have been more or less plans for this change since the 1990s, but that it has stranded the implementation each time, was the reason why my predecessor split it up into phases. Besides, this isn't just an experience you've had in Defense, it's an experience you've had in all those parts of society where you're dealing with big and complex conversion systems and computer systems. At least we have to increase control and transparency to a maximum. That is why I am also pleased that the bulk of the population so clearly says that the feedback given by the Government is in line with what the Stortinget has previously agreed to, and that the breakdown was correct. As I interpret the representative Bjørklund, he was also positive about the very division of the project, and I think that is an important point. So I want to add that we can't convert the FLO without this. The conversion of the FLO and the conversion of the Defence, which is one of the largest public sector transformations ever, mentioned in St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001 and St.prp. No 55 for 2001-2002 has been adopted by this Chamber, and then we also have a responsibility to ensure that the pieces that need to be put in place for the FLO to be able to relocate without unnecessary delay. GOLF is not just a data tool. GOLF is the Head of Defence's conversion tool – much more than a computer application. It's about new ways of working, new ways of organizing. So this has to be in place if the conversion of the FLO, which is an important piece to reach the downpour of 5,000 and to realize all the savings that are in St. prp. No 45 and St. Prp. 55, it must be possible. That's why we don't want to stop and have new investigations based on assumptions that we shouldn't include today. If we're going to go in and make a total cost analysis today, we have to include a number of assumptions related to road choices that we don't want to make today, because we want to make these choices when we have the experience of delivery project 1. If we're going to stop the whole thing now in order to make estimates of assumptions that we shouldn't determine today, we're postponing the conversion of the GOLF, and we're postponing the conversion of the Defense. And it also has this hall a responsibility that we avoid. So it's been mentioned in the media that the Riksrevision has had some points of reference. To that I would say that I fully agree with what the Riksrevision has pointed out, namely that there have been many precursors to Program GOLF, but that it has stranded the implementation every time. At the same time, meeting the requirements of national economic legislation is what we have prioritised. It's not the whole GOLF, but it's part of the GOLF. What I agree with the Riksrevision is that it is important to get a cost picture and an hourly plan in order to meet the requirements of the economic legislation, for one of the jobs that the Riksrevision has, is to ensure that the defence will also be able to achieve the objective of meeting the requirements of the economic legislation. Such a cost picture and an timetable for meeting the requirements of economic legislation, I aim to ensure that we can, of course, deliver the Riksaudition and others who ask for it, but it is something other than going into a total analysis based on choices that should only be made later. I would just like to conclude briefly by saying that the evaluation report after delivery project 1 will be submitted to the Stortinget immediately upon completion of the project. It will end at the beginning of 2004, and there will be some tests until spring 2004 — that is, such an evaluation report should be available in spring 2004. And of course, everything that is ready for the harvest will be reported in the state budget for the autumn. So in the future, it can be assumed that there will be an annual notification in the context of the State budget, plus additional reports as you finish the different phases. It's in line with what my predecessors put up to, and to which the Storting has actually joined.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e226	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e229	I have two questions for the Council of State. The first is: is it possible to continue the programme GOLF, as the Council of State suggests in its letter to us of 13 March of this year, without losing what is the main argument of the current implementation strategy on sequential implementation in-flight evaluation? The Minister of Defence also spoke in his statement that GOLF is the chief of defence's conversion tool. The question is: does the Council agree that the entire Programme GOLF needs to be implemented in order to implement the planned change?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e239	To the last question first, whether the Council of State considers that the entire Programme GOLF should be implemented. To that end, of course, we must have a total project that solves all the tasks that the head of defence needs to do, both in order to introduce economic legislation and in order to facilitate new working methods and new organisation. But you don't have to solve it all at once, and that's the whole point of the division. If we get experience after phase 1, which suggests that we will do something different in phase 2 than what was originally intended, we have the freedom to do it. That's the whole point. Of course, at some point we will end up in a final product that includes all the products we need, but there must be the possibility of adjusting the price along the way. It won't necessarily save us money. It was something that Bjørklund had in mind in his main post, if it is such that dividing it into projects will save you money. The main objective of dividing it into phases is to reduce the risk — the risk of the large cracks in addition to what has been budgeted — and that is something else. So to the question of whether you can keep going without losing any of the benefits you're looking for by dividing. That's a good question, and of course there's no exact, absolute and short answer to that. There's one of the things we just have to weigh in the project management: how much can we keep going? Can we proceed without losing any of the control elements contained in the phase division? It's going to be a little bit like this: how long is a meter? The point is that we should continue as much as possible without losing control, and that will necessarily be a judgement. That assessment is the one with the project and with the shoe on, which is best able to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e248	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e253	Just some comments to the representatives Width and Bjørklund. It is not right that the majority in the Defence Committee and in this Chamber do not want a political review of the Golf programme when the first phase is over, even if we do not support Document No. The 8th proposal that the Department should present its own case. We get, as the Council of State quite carefully explained, an evaluation of the first stage, and we have to decide on it. It gives us political control, in my opinion, and I would like to stress that that was exactly what was meant when the then state councillor Bjørn Tore Godal changed Project GOLF to Program GOLF. So it's not time to take any breath in the ground in relation to this project, as the representative Width said. I would like to remind you that in the autumn of 2001, the Stortinget unanimously joined the conversion from Project GOLF to Program GOLF, and had no objections, on the contrary. It was pleased that the Council of State had intervened and taken political control and changed Project GOLF to Program GOLF. With regard to the forthcoming report from the Riksrevision – which we have not seen yet, some of us, but there have been some preliminary comments online – I would also like to stress as much as I can that this is about Project GOLF and its predecessors, which, in other words, then Minister of Defence Bjørn Tore Godal intervened against and got stopped. This means that the report of the National Audit Office also agrees with the majority of the Committee. We agree that Project GOLF was out of control, and that it was necessary to intervene and change the device and its progress and turn it into a programme that was phased into individual projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e262	I can go along with what the representative Nybakk was into – it was one of the same things I was going to touch on. I think it is in many ways a unnecessary proposal that has come here in this document No. The 8th proposal from these three political parties. That the Socialist Left Party wants to focus on the Defence – and perhaps critical focus on the Defence, I don't want to say negative focus – I understand. But the Progress Party and the Center Party are really knocking open doors here, that's what's done here. This matter has been discussed as long as I have been on the Defence Committee, and it is now six years. I just want to remind you of what the Defence Committee wrote in its comment at the Innst. S. No 238 for 1999-2000: ‘The Committee will nevertheless point to past negative experience with complex information systems and will therefore request that all sides be kept under constant review and that the Stortinget be informed as the project develops also on the cost aspects.’ It was in 2000. This is nothing new. The majority and the Defence Committee have followed this project closely all the time. And the same thing was said in Innst. S. No 316 for 2000–2001, where we also focus on the exact same issue. I am very surprised that we are going to spend the time of the Storting and the working time of the Defence Committee on matters that have really been followed so closely by the Storting and the Defence Committee all the time. Two or three times a year we have had this matter. I'm very surprised that the Progress Party and the Center Party are particularly useful in such a political game.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e278	It's nice that Gunnar Halvorsen's representative is busy with the time we're using here. I appreciate that. But that he has no sense of how we use taxpayers' money, I don't think it's so nice – but it's not surprising. In the opinion of the proposers, this project has come out of course. That we should have a political review, that is clear – it should be lacking! Is there anyone in this room who thinks that this project can be stopped, even though we've split it up into different projects? It might have been interesting to know. Such a project cannot be stopped. It has come out of governance economically – and also politically – I would say. When I was initially not concerned, I thought it was not right, to split up the project, it is not because I am opposed to doing so, but because it has been shown that it is not profitable. It's actually going to be more expensive. And when the Council of State can't look forward to 2005, what this will cost, then I have to say that I have great concerns. The feedback that has come to Stortinget is not enough, although the representative Halvorsen claims that we have received good enough information.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e289	SV has no other objectives in this case besides that if we are going to spend NOK 2 billion on this program, we should be able to go into it with open eyes! Does Gunnar Halvorsen know what the cost of this programme will be? Is Gunnar Halvorsen concerned that maybe we can spend billions on something that we're not sure if we get an economic gain or a rationalization gain out of? Based on what the head of defense says, this is the chief of defense's conversion tool. This project is already very late and will delay the transition if it does not continue. Then our control will necessarily become weak – that's what this matter is about!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e298	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2655]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e314	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that no line be given. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is deemed to have been adopted
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e323	Document No 8:76, promoted by Kjetil Bjørklund and Bjørn Jacobsen, is about whether Norwegian soldiers placed under the command of other countries in international military operations should have clearer guidelines than today. Norway has been involved in several international military operations in recent years, which we will probably be in the future as well. The last operation was in Afghanistan until 1 April of this year, including: Norwegian F-16 aircraft participated in active combat actions. There have been criticisms and questions from, among others. Red Cross and Amnesty International on possible violations of the international law of war, including: in the case of the selection of bombs and the treatment of catches. These points will probably be made more by the proposers. On the other hand, the majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre, agree that today's system and current guidelines and procedures are well in keeping with the conditions set out in the proposal. For example, the majority to the Council of State Kristin Krohn Devold's comprehensive letter to the Committee of 25 March 2003, and I allow myself to read the following: ‘Norwegian forces are subject to Norwegian law, Norwegian international law obligations and Norwegian jurisdiction wherever they operate in the world. Nor will Norwegian soldiers be completely under foreign command. When Norwegian forces are transferred to NATO command or as in operation Enduring Freedom American command, only command authority on operational issues are transferred. Disciplinary authority and administrative control are always maintained in Norwegian hands.When operating command is transferred to a foreign chief of forces, the procedure is that it is always reserved that Norwegian forces cannot be used in a way that would conflict with Norwegian law or Norwegian international law obligations. Further conditions and limitations will also be established in the circumstances.» This clearly states that Norwegian forces are subject to Norwegian law, Norwegian international law obligations, and not least Norwegian jurisdiction wherever they operate in the world. When operating command is transferred to the foreign chief executive, the procedures are always reserved for Norwegian forces not to be used in a way that could be contrary to Norwegian law or to Norwegian international law obligations. It may also be possible in some cases, as the case may be, to impose additional conditions and restrictions. Individual rules on the use of power, etc. for each operation, the Norwegian authorities are just reviewing the compliance of the rules with Norwegian law and Norway’s international obligations. To this end, national rules are drawn up and laid down to ensure that Norwegian policies, and obligations, are respected. These rules, which Norwegian forces are required to follow at all levels, are referred to as exposure rules, so-called Rules of Engagement. Within NATO, these questions are well-known and have been handled for a number of years. Also through UN operations, this is something the defense has been dealing with for over 50 years. But, of course, it is important to keep a constant focus on the balances that need to be made when several countries participate in joint operations. Ensuring that war or armed conflict is conducted within the framework of international humanitarian law and international human rights is an overall objective. The majority indicates that instructions and guidelines will be set out in the written documents produced in relation to each operation, including Norwegian terms and conditions set in relation to the notification of command transmissions, and documents related to the nationally determined Rules of Engagement. In conclusion, the majority believe that the current guidelines for Norwegian participation in international military operations where Norwegian soldiers are placed under the command of other countries or act in an internationally constituted force are clear and meet our international obligations. On this basis, the majority consider that there is no need to develop new guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e357	During this debate, Norwegian forces are participating in international operations in several places in the world, including: in Kosovo and Afghanistan. In January of this year, fighter pilots dropped arms in Afghanistan. Despite the fact that we were national decision-makers at Stortinget who had taken decisions on participation in Operation Enduring Freedom, it was voiced criticism of the pilots, criticism of pilots who did the job we had set them to do. "I think we should have reserved ourselves against this scam," said the representative Haga, while other public people said, "We can't bomb in the cabin and weather. Norway’s involvement in Afghanistan has been completely reversed.’» I know soldiers have felt disappointed that politicians – politicians who have made decisions to send them into conflict – have doubted their ability to assess the situation. I am absolutely sure that Norwegian soldiers operate well within the rules that we politicians have set up. No one is more concerned about not making mistakes than the soldiers who actually participate in the operations. Anyone who has met the Norwegian soldiers involved in these operations knows that these are men with high integrity, good judgment and with hundreds of training hours behind them. It is therefore very important that we, as politicians, stand at 100 pst. behind them if we've decided to participate. This is particularly important when they have taken part in a sharp task, and they have performed a task to which they have been sent. In a comprehensive letter to Stortinget, the Council of State has made it clear that ‘Norwegian forces are subject to Norwegian law, Norwegian international law obligations and Norwegian jurisdiction wherever they operate’. Furthermore, it states that ‘Norwegian forces cannot be used in a way that would be contrary to Norwegian law’ and that ‘additional conditions and restrictions’ could be set. When the rules are as they are referred to, and this is combined with the common sense that I believe characterises the women and men who choose to participate in international operations, the Workers' Party feels secure that there is no need to develop new guidelines as proposed by SV. The Labour Party and the majority believe that the rules are clear and that they fulfil our obligations under international law.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e374	I have noticed that the Minister of Defence and the majority of the Committee believe that there is no need today to strengthen Norway's international commitments during participation in international operations. I believe that Norway should raise the level of ambition not only in terms of meeting our obligations, but also to help ensure that our allies maintain a high standard in relation to the international law of the war. I have also noted the procedures and formalities referred to by the Minister of Defence in his letter to the Committee, but I believe that one should have ambitions for even better practices in this area to ensure even more that our obligations are met, and that Norway does not contribute to our allies undermining international law. Both the media and organisations such as Red Cross and Amnesty have raised criticisms of violations of the international law of war under Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan in which Norway participates, in particular in the treatment of prisoners of war. I would like to make it clear that this criticism has not addressed our contributions. We do not have concrete information to suggest that our forces have made themselves responsible for violations of the international law of the war – and I am pleased about that – but we are engaged in a war in Afghanistan where there has been considerable criticism of our allies. Last night there was an error bombing that caused eleven civilians to be killed. In the opinion of the SV, there is a greater need to clarify in advance, before entering an international operation, how one will resolve any situation where it becomes known that an alliance partner violates international human rights obligations and obligations in relation to the international law of war. The guidelines and principles for this seem to be little clear today, and I do not think it is clear from the Minister of Defence's comments on Document No. 8:76, which we are dealing with today, that this is adequately addressed in today's guidelines. There also appears to be a need to clarify whether there is an obligation to withdraw from an operation if the partners in that operation are deliberately and systematically set aside. I have also noticed that the defense chief's tenth military rule implies an obligation to report violations of the war law to the general, but believes that there is a need to ensure that such information is systematically collected and reported further. One way to ensure such reporting would be to introduce clearer guidelines for debriefing military personnel on return, focusing on whether possible violations of human rights and the international right of war have been witnessed. I would like to point out here that in his reply to the Committee, the Minister for Defence wrote: ‘I will also show that procedures for debriefing all military personnel on return have existed for a longer time. During debriefing, there will be a good opportunity to also focus on possible breaches that have been witnessed.’ In our opinion, this is not enough, and the fact that there is a good opportunity is not in itself a guarantee that this will be done. Although Norwegian soldiers in the current situation in Afghanistan are not equipped to take prisoners, there is also a need to clarify when Norway assumes legal responsibility as a prisoner. Today, it is unclear whether this applies in cases where the Nordics are carrying out an arrest or whether it is only in cases where Norway is responsible for operating a prison camp. Significant international objections have been raised to the way prisoners of war have been treated under Operation Enduring Freedom, where Norway participates, and there is doubt that the Norwegian demands for humane treatment and fair trial of the prisoners taken in Afghanistan are fully respected by our allies today. It's e.g. so that the United States has not accepted that these prisoners are to be categorised as prisoners of war in accordance with the provisions of the Geneva Convention. I have noted the cooperation agreement between the Defence and the Norwegian Red Cross on training in the international law of war which was concluded recently, and believe this is positive and will provide a good opportunity to strengthen the Norwegian follow-up to this theme, on which we should all be concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e392	In recent years, Norway has been involved in several international military operations. Norwegian defence is increasingly being set up to continue to participate in international operations in the future. The proposers believe that in such situations specific challenges may arise in order to meet our international obligations under international law and law, and they call for clearer guidelines to ensure that Norwegian forces comply with Norwegian laws and international obligations, even when they are part of the command line of another country. I think it is okay that the matter has been put on the agenda to get a review of the situation. However, the Christian People’s Party – and the majority of the Committee, all parties outside SV – share the Ministry’s view, that today’s system and current guidelines and procedures are in keeping with the conditions set out in the proposal. At the same time, it is important to follow up, and several of us have probably had many informal discussions with the Defense Department to assure us that the challenges are well addressed. The feedback has been clear, including in the Minister of Defence's reply to the Committee. Norwegian forces are subject to Norwegian law, Norwegian international law obligations and Norwegian jurisdiction, no matter where in the world they operate. Nor will Norwegian soldiers be completely under foreign command. When Norwegian forces are transferred to NATO command or, as in ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation, to American command, only command authority on operational issues are transferred. Disciplinary authority and administrative control are always maintained in Norwegian hands. When operating command is transferred to the foreign chief of forces, the procedure is that it is always reserved that Norwegian forces cannot be used in a way that could be contrary to Norwegian law or international law obligations. Further conditions and limitations may also be established in the circumstances of the individual case. Instructions and guidelines will be provided in the written documents produced in connection with each operation. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that the current guidelines for Norwegian participation in international military operations whereby Norwegian soldiers are placed under the command of another country or act in an internationally constituted force are clear and comply with our international obligations. There is therefore no need to develop new guidelines, but it is clear that we will continue to follow and have a dialogue to check that the defence's value base is more than fine words on the paper. I also want to take the opportunity to say that I am proud of our women and men serving in international military operations, the way they carry out their missions, and the way they represent our country. They have a good reputation. It is also important to give praise to the many relatives, the families around, who participate in their way. Without their acceptance, it would have been difficult to carry out what we politicians have adopted, the mission we have given them. Both those who are out and those who are at home need to know that we stand by what we have said and what we have adopted. It is therefore important that the defence and society set up, which is part of the defence policy. Debriefing and having the impressions and experiences processed to care for the mental and mental health of those who have been out there are important. Equally important is giving the acceptance that it could be a mental impact. We need to build up a better competence in health that can provide everyone with war experience. The defense is those who have war experience here in the country, and they also have a stress test team that works very well. It is important that we also get into the healthcare system – it is important that we get some centres of expertise so that you can seek help from someone who understands what it is about when you get the aftereffects of what you have seen. Finally, I would like to point out that it is important to see the whole – both outdoors and at home – in our decisions on international missions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e411	Mr Kjetil Bjørklund has the floor to put forward a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e414	The reputation of the defense is very good. I agree, it is reassuring, and so it must be. I just want to take the word to remind the assembly and myself of the SV's proposal, which is addressed herewith.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e421	The representative of Kjetil Bjørklund has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2656]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e439	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Right 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose exemptions from the first paragraph of Section 37 of the Rules of Procedure by giving access to lines so as to limit lines and responses to one minute each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a change of line of up to three one-minute increments, with replies from the main speakers of each of the party groups and five one-minute increments, following contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e452	In dealing with this communication, a single proposal has not been made, because this is a message, because we have previously dealt with the Inst. S. No 95 for 2002-2003 on what we can do for young people and others who are struggling to obtain housing, and because we are going to deal with the government's notified housing report for the autumn. Human rights establish that everyone has the right to a dwelling. Nevertheless, there are about 6,200 homeless people in this country, and many young people are struggling to afford their first home. Current policy since the mid-1980s has been to make the market take on an increasing share of responsibility for providing people with their first and own housing. But is it possible to leave to the market to fulfil a fundamental human right? In Norway, more people own their own homes than in any other European country. This country is 76 pst. of the dwellings housing law apartments, share apartments or some form of owner-occupied dwelling. If we compare ourselves with our Nordic neighbouring country, we find that among the Danes and Swedes it is at the base of 60 pst. owning its own dwelling. The main reason for this is the social housing policy of the post-war period, with the aim that everyone should be able to own their own home at a cost of living. The way the target was achieved was cheap, subsidised loans from the Husbank, regulation of resale prices so that the subsidies remained in the dwelling, and not least a large-scale housing construction. Against new builders of over 40 000 dwellings in 1974, even the peak year 2001 pales with its 25 000 newly built dwellings. The government parties have referred to ECON Report 96/02 in the report and believe that the House Bank is not particularly important in order to provide adequate housing in Norway. The builders are very pleased with the House Bank. You can see that in the score above how important they think the House Bank is, and that they are satisfied with the House Bank. They think it is particularly important in terms of the quality of housing and security, both for those who build it and for those who buy it. The government's claim that the House Bank is not important is incorrect. The mortgage bank's loan money was used up last year. The conclusion of the report is that it is not necessary to make the loans of the House Bank more favourable than they are. But it's turning things upside down. We should increase the loan framework, because what we have done in the report is that we have taken a discussion and concluded that there are not so many projects that would not have been carried out if there had not been a mortgage. But there are the wrong questions that are being asked. The question should instead be: What projects were not implemented because the lending framework in the House Bank was exhausted? All builders implement the most profitable projects first. It is precisely to make sure that we increase the volume of housing that we need the mortgage framework of the House Bank, but it cancels the municipal minister and the government last year, and has continued that policy this year, by limiting the lending framework of the House Bank. A review of figures over the last 20 years shows that there is a strong link between the number of entry loans granted in the House Bank and the housing structure. In particular, it is overwhelming that downtimes are up to 80-90 pst. of what is being built, entry loans from the House Bank. It is essential to pursue countercyclical policies, it is essential for housing to be sufficient, and it is essential for the construction industry not to be demolished. Now the Swedes and the Danes have traveled home. Now, ordinary Norwegian workers have begun to report unemployed and have started to be licensed in the construction industry. That's how we lose competence and quality, and that's how we can't develop productivity. That's why we need to bet on the House Bank. The second major difference between Norway and our Nordic neighbours is that they have a much larger share of non-commercial dwellings. In Norway it's just 4 pst. of all dwellings rented for non-commercial purposes. For comparison, about half of the rental dwellings in Denmark and Sweden are non-commercial, respectively 20 and 24 pst. Therefore, it should be an objective that we should raise that proportion. I would like to say something about the loan management at the Husbank. [[The President clubs.]] It is important to keep the loan management in the House Bank, so as to prevent us from getting a lot of lay-offs, and to ensure that all housing-social purposes are taken care of by one common house bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e480	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e483	The representative Holmås from SV said that the House Bank needs increased loan frameworks, otherwise this would lead to projects not being implemented. Now there's a study under the auspices of ECON that shows that 90 pst. by the dwellings financed by the Husbank would be financed by the ordinary banking market. Then there is reason to ask: what is the real representative Holmås means by this, when it is actually such that 90 pst. of the housing – which, therefore, is involved in breaking the framework, and as the representative says, there is a need for increased loan frameworks in the Husbank – would, therefore, be approved funded by the ordinary funding system? I would like to challenge the representative Holmås to comment on just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e488	If the representative had heard what I said, he would understand that it is a bit of a point that you will always implement the most profitable projects first. Therefore, this is the thing that is being implemented completely independent of the bank's loan framework. The other important part in which the House Bank does not have the opportunity to participate, and which is further reinforced by the fact that there is a limitation on the loan framework, is that they cannot go into as much and finance ordinary three- and four-room apartments because of the very strict set of land requirements, and that makes it possible to obtain relatively low loan measurements for what we can call ordinary family apartments, for example. in the Groruddalen, which allows OBOS and other large builders to choose solutions other than the House Bank. But there's something I haven't realized about Torbjørn Andersen, who comes from a party that is a member of taking oil money and spending on people. Domestic bank loans cost nothing for the government to borrow. Why won't the Progress Party be involved in providing cheap loans to people without it costing the state one penny?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e497	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e500	Today we are going to deal with the business of the Husbank in the years 2000 and 2001. The working party believes that there was a lot of positive in the Husbank during this period. And it is not necessary to remind this assembly that it was the government of Stoltenberg with the municipal minister Sylvia Brustad who was the architects who made this a good period that not only the Workers' Party is satisfied with. The attitude is marked by satisfaction and agreement that this was two good years, not just for the House Bank, because it is subordinate, but for the many young people, the many old and others who received grants and loans that made it possible to realize their housing dreams. For the Workers' Party, the Husbank is a crucial tool for operating offensive housing policies. That's why this was a bet area when we were in government. That's the opposite we're now looking at from the current government. The mortgage lending framework of the house bank increased significantly in the years 2000 and 2001 and was the highest in many years. It contributed to a strong growth in residential construction. 25 000 new dwellings were built, which is the highest number since the 1980s. The working party believes it is particularly good that during this period the Husbank got a marked increase in the number of new dwellings in the big cities and in other press areas. The working party believes it is particularly good that many student homes were built in Oslo during this period. The working party believes that it is particularly good that more housing measures were put in place that made it easier for young people and those with disabilities to settle in owner-occupied dwellings or rented dwellings. Finally, but not least, we must not forget that there was at the same time a large-scale expansion of nursing homes and nursing homes. I doubt whether the Husbank's activities in the period 2002-2003, which we will deal with in a few years' time, will give the same satisfaction and consensus that we experience today. The government's housing policy and, in particular, the Husbank are now governed in a completely different direction than under the Workers' Party. Now the House Bank is going to be a bank for those who have very special needs. Loans for the construction of a dwelling shall be granted only if they have a special borrowing need. Now it should no longer be possible for a family of children to obtain a loan from the House Bank if they want to build a dwelling that is more than 85 m2 of living space in central districts. This is what the Workers' Party believes is a reversal of a housing policy we have succeeded in, and this will lead to a reduction in new buildings. That's not what we need. This will help to maintain a high level of housing prices. This will affect young people who do not have parents who can provide a guarantee for the top loan and who thus do not receive loans in other banks. The House Bank is a good tool for counter-cyclical policy. We need this tool at a time when unemployment is increasing sharply. The availability is also increasing in the construction industry, and the prospects for the future are gloomy. But what does the Government do? Well, it's only tightening up further in the House Bank's instruments. Last year the House Bank ran out of money in August. The following were not missing either. The building went down by the entire 11 pst. from 2001 to 2002. This is a strange policy. I have also noticed that there are very low loss write-offs in the period 2000–2001. Then the paradox gets even bigger when you put all the brakes on to prevent people getting the most loans in the House Bank. So it doesn't cost the state one penny, it's a big advantage for the borrowers, and it would give you more housing at a time when the housing prices are very high and we need more housing on the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e530	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e533	I noticed the representative Signe Øyes' strong defense for the House Bank. Historically, the House Bank has meant a lot to housing in Norway – we will all acknowledge that. But we see that there are major changes going on, and over the last decades the role of the House Bank as a financing player has also changed significantly. But I actually think I'd prefer to ask a question of a slightly general nature. It is still the case that, in the ordinary housing market, part of it enjoys and uses the Husbank. But can the representative Signe Eye explain to me what advantage it gives to a dwelling builder to have mortgages rather than taking out loans in an ordinary bank?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e543	Well, the House Bank has meant a lot to the new building here in the country after the war, which the representative Torbjørn Andersen also agreed with. In fact, the House Bank has been involved and granted a loan of 50 p.m. of the new dwellings we built after 1945. This has meant that very many people have had the opportunity to build a dwelling, because the House Bank has been the only lending agency that has been willing to take the risk of borrowing money. It's not like Andersen's representative is trying to suggest, that everyone can go to a bank and think you're getting money. In particular, it is difficult to obtain top-level funding, which will often be the highest risk factor.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e548	The Labour Party and we agree quite well on the big lines of housing policy, although always when it comes to budgetary issues, we are able to prioritise this higher than what the Workers' Party is doing – especially when it comes to building housing for people who need it. I have a question for Signe Eye. When we're going to increase the grants for the construction of rental homes around the country, there's one thing that stands for me as a paradox. The state is financing cheap rental properties. Nevertheless, we see that more and more municipalities set up rents for the rest of the world, for market rent, and thus make money on the investment and the gifts that have somehow come in the form of grants from the Stortinget. Why won't Signe Eye and the Workers' Party be involved in introducing a cost-effective rental as a principle, as Sylvia Brustad also recommended the municipalities to go in for rentals?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e555	SV and the Workers' Party largely agree on the very much in the message we are currently processing, and they also agree on quite a number of comments in the settings. But I think that the representative Heikki Holmås takes quite a lot when he now says that SV always prioritizes funds in housing construction higher than the Workers' Party when we deal with the budgets. If I don't remember completely wrong, it was the opposite that happened when we dealt with the budget for 2003. But leave it. Then he asked why we wouldn't introduce a cost-effective rental, as former state councillor Sylvia Brustad also called for. Now we want to invest in building the most possible rental properties and have also gone into the budget to increase the appropriations for this. So we'll see what the next step is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e562	I am particularly surprised, not least by the contributions of the representative Signe Øyes. It seems as if there are major changes in the Husbanken framework, that they are almost destroyed in the last six months. That's not correct. It's actually completely wrong. The financial framework is increasing in the year's budget. Support has been increased and expanded. The start-up loan has been introduced – a success for the youngest in the housing market. Why black paint something that is actually closest to pink?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e567	No, it's not a black paint. In fact, applications are now waiting for the House Bank, and the queue has increased significantly. Why is that so? Well, not enough that the appropriations have increased less than the Workers' Party thought it was necessary, but the Council of State has now quantified that it will not be paid more than 1/12 per. months. That actually means you put the brake pedal on quite strongly. I should like to give an example to the representative of Apelthun Seele. It is a project that Nordlandsforskning has evaluated, that concerns low-income housing in Bodø. It has worked according to assumptions and has been a success. Nevertheless, Erna Solberg has stopped the grants for this type of housing in the letter of assignment to the House Bank. What is it that can be said to be so very good when it is put on brakes on all sides?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e574	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e577	This breakdown refers to the activities of the Staten Husbank in the period 2000–2001. The period 1997–2001 was characterised by low unemployment and strong income growth in Norway. This restored many households to a good economy and resulted in increased housing construction. The House Bank is an important tool in Norwegian housing policy, a housing policy that has had a main focus on owner-occupied housing throughout the post-war period, which also has a broad political upswing. The house bank has actively contributed with loans and grants. With its demands — and less demands on equity than private banks — the House Bank has a special obligation towards young people, our new compatriots and disadvantaged people. This is to prioritize. With limited resources, we need to prioritise, and the government parties give priority to those who need help. In 2001, 42.3 billion kroner were invested in dwellings in Norway. The house bank had 13 billion dollars in the lending framework the same year. This shows that most of the funds came from the private sector, especially in banking. Such figures illustrate a well-functioning banking sector. It is therefore important to play with private providers of capital, and let the House Bank help those who would otherwise not be able to buy housing only by private assistance. ECON has recently evaluated the House Bank's entry loans. The report concludes that 5-11 pst. of the residentially funded dwellings included in the evaluation, would not be listed without mortgages. This clearly shows that the left-hand side’s rhetoric about an all-inclusive house bank that finances all dwellings as long as the standard is simple, and that this provides significantly higher housing, at best is simple, perhaps naive. This is likely to be completely faulty. The joy of the report is that the entry loan has an impact on the quality of the dwelling. This will include, inter alia: by the competence of the House Bank. More for the money – it is an important principle. During the period, the House Bank has implemented several efficiency measures, including: by setting clear objectives in relation to time and service. It is nice to record that the House Bank received very good feedback in a large customer survey when it came to the level of service. The house bank is a good tool to help those who would otherwise not be able to establish themselves on the housing market. You need such a tipping of the House Bank, where those who would otherwise not receive help are helped by the House Bank, and where priority is given – not as the left-hand side wants, namely that everyone gets a little, and those who need help are excluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e592	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e595	That's 90 pst. by the builders who borrow in the House Bank believe that the Husbank provides the best loan offer. 80 pst. believes that the Husbanken reduces the risk in the project. 80 pst. customers believe that they have much left to choose house-funded dwellings. And 80 pst. believes that they benefit from the Husbank's competence. This, together with the fact that the last few years have built more, but smaller, dwellings, creates a high level of resource use. But then the representative is short-sighted and not historically oriented. When you accuse the left side of being concerned about the House Bank, you have to draw the perspectives further. It is in periods of decline that the House Bank is the most important. Today is 45 pst. Newly built loans financed through the Husbank, but in periods of low economic activity, i.e. in the early 1990s, 80–90 pst. are house-bank financed. Isn't that important?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e600	The House Bank is important for Norwegian housing policy. The household bank has skills needed in the housing market and should also be used. But the representative Holmås also knows that most of the projects started with house banking funding, it is actually possible to finance with normal private funding. It is important to clarify that where private funding can be used, it should be done so that the resources of the House Bank are used on those who actually need help, not on those who could receive private funding. Then the representative shows Holmås at less risk in the projects. It is quite clear that there is less risk of using a government bank versus a private bank, but that does not mean that the project would not have been started otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e607	My question to the representative Gitmark owes the House Bank as a district bank. Clear figures show the value of the House Bank in relation to general housing construction in many districts. In fact, it is so overwhelming that the figures provided show that during a period the House Bank financed 60-70 pst. of all new buildings in North Norway, against 10 pst. in Oslo. It is that in some cases the mortgage value is so low that other funding is not relevant. Is it to reduce the Husbank's involvement in this field in line with the Right District Policy or else?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e617	The answer to the representative of the Central Party is no. We're in line with this question. And I want to refer to the setting where the Right and Christian People's Party has a note where we point out that «The Husbank has an important role to play in contributing to rural housing where other funding opportunities may be difficult». We're completely in line – and that's important to us. And there are also separate loan supplements in the districts. That's a good enough answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e627	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e630	Let me first say that Norway has a very good housing coverage, and perhaps one of the countries with the best housing coverage across Europe. The 1995 figures show that to the country's 4.5 million inhabitants, we have nearly 1.9 million dwellings, so that gives a housing coverage of 2.3. Furthermore, 20 000 to 25 000 dwellings are built per year. years. It has previously been claimed that we might have built 27,000 dwellings per. years, but this has changed. There have been new investigations that show that there might be enough 17,000 homes per person. years. So the housing coverage is not as bad as some try to give the impression, and it's thanks to a free housing market. Furthermore, in Norway, we have 250,000 dwellings that have the potential for a basement or a ankle apartment. Thus, by stimulating private owners to create such apartments, huge quantities of smaller housing units will be available. There is therefore no shortage of housing in Norway that suggests that there is a need for a state home bank. Furthermore, it is appropriate to mention that calculations have been made to show that, for a newly built average dwelling, a large proportion of the total price represents taxes and charges. So if you want a higher level of housing in this country, you might be able to reduce the level of taxes and charges. These are measures that would give young and disadvantaged people greater financial freedom in the housing market. Nor is it right to say, as the socialist parties try to make it, that according to NOU 2002:2, we have 7,800 homeless people, and that this is a problem that can only be solved with increased housing. Because it is that the homeless are not a uniform group that is all without any form of housing. It's actually like 60 pst. of the homeless have drug problems and mental disorders, such as suffering that they do not have the ability to act in the ordinary housing market, rather they need institutional space. This is supported by a 1997 report from Building Research, which says that only one third of the country’s homeless people have a real need for owner-occupied housing. So the rest have so many additional problems that they need to follow up on a service or need an institution space. It is therefore wrong to claim that the high number of so-called homeless people is an indication that there are too few dwellings built here in the country. The party to the progress is particularly concerned with maintaining a housing policy that allows disadvantaged people to obtain housing and that those with low equity should be able to enter the housing market. The Progress Party believes that the Statens Husbank is playing its role as a residential finance bank in the ordinary housing market. The State’s Husbank was established at a time when the loan opportunities were more inaccessible to many, and in addition the Husbank’s interest rate was very favourable for a number of years. This was done by the House Bank for many with low or common incomes. For these reasons, the House Bank had an important role to play in housing policy at the time by making it easier for many people to obtain loans in the House Bank than in other banks, so the House Bank was an important instrument in the social housing policy that followed the war. Today, the social impact of housing has been greatly reduced. The availability of the private mortgage market has been significantly strengthened in recent years. Moreover, as in the past, there is no immediate advantage to borrowing from the House Bank. I would like to refer to a study carried out by ECON Centres for Economic Analysis that shows that the House Bank is no longer a decisive tool for the level of housing construction here in the country. Against this background, the Progress Party considers that it should be considered to convert the Statens Husbank from a general residential bank to a bank for the financing of more exceptional types of social housing, which is thus more difficult to finance and realise through the ordinary private banking and financing system, for example. schools, kindergartens, nursing homes, nursing homes, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e651	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e654	Torbjørn Andersen is directly wrong. Compared to interest rates, on page 10 of the notice, there is a graph that clearly shows how the interest rate in the Husbank is evenly above that in the private money market. Then my question to Torbjørn Andersen is: what is it that the Progress Party, which is thus to spend money in tax relief in this area, is not willing to give people a cheap mortgage that does not cost the state five flat ears – not five flat ears costs the state to lend entry loans to people – when the housing construction laws, the large construction companies or anyone says that it would be good to get larger mortgages?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e661	To the representative Holmås ́ reply that the Progress Party is not willing to give people a cheap mortgage: it is not that I have some great ideological contradictions and objections to the House Bank as such. But it's like, in the ordinary housing market, it turns out that 90 pst. may be financed through the ordinary financial and banking system. And so as I see it, there is no need for a government so-called cheap bank for ordinary mortgages. In 1996, the interest subsidy element disappeared. It is therefore not right for the representative Holmås to try to produce it, that it is more reasonable to finance a dwelling today through the House Bank than through most of the usual banking and financial institutions. I cannot see that there is any good reason to maintain the House Bank as a financing institution for the ordinary housing market, because for most housebuilders it is not economically advantageous to use mortgages. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e668	The President will only recall that the Storting has decided that the line shall be kept within a speaking time of 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e671	The representative Andersen points out that the ECON report presented reports that only 11 pst. by new buildings would not have been built if the House Bank had not given loans, and this is like nothing. But 11 pst. of 25 000 dwellings are, after all, almost 3000 dwellings! So for the Progress Party, this means almost nothing. The working party believes that there is quite a substantial amount of housing, and there are quite a number of people who will be involved and then have no opportunity to build a dwelling. The representative says that he is not exactly against the House Bank. But the main idea of the Progress Party is – as they write in the setting – that they will abolish the whole of the House Bank. Where are these 3,000 going to get loans to build a dwelling?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e680	I would like to reply to the representative Signe Øyes's line: the Progress Party believes that the Husbank should be transformed into a social institution for the financing of projects within this possible 11 p.m. margin, which is therefore difficult to finance in the ordinary banking market. We therefore believe that it is important to transform the Husbanken. It may still exist, but it needs to be transformed into a social funding institution. There is no need for the House Bank in the case of 90 pst. of the dwellings currently financed by the house-banking system. It is in relation to the ordinary dwellings we believe the House Bank is superfluous. But we would like to see the House Bank maintained to deal with the financing of these 11 psts. as this was referred to, in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e687	The representative Torbjørn Andersen is standing here saying that it's not based on ideological angles that he commits himself to a very reduced home bank. Then I have to ask, on what basis does he do that? Torbjørn Andersen is a magnificent representative who has experience and knowledge when it comes to building houses. And so here we're dealing with a bank that the construction industry itself is asking for, based on the risk being drawn, on the rapid implementation of construction projects, and on the guidance for quality and the environment that the Husbank can provide for the individual, and that ordinary banks can't set up. Last year, there was a stop – not only in my area, but many other places as well – because of the lack of framework in the House Bank. I beg Torbjørn Andersen to clarify and be honest with what is his real vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e696	I believe that the traditional role of the House Bank is gone today. The house bank is no longer a central and indispensable element of housing policy. I have said in the past that the bank should be transformed from a general residential bank into a social bank, at least as I see it. As I said, the role as an instrument in social housing is also gone. I think that the House Bank can play a role in housing measures that fall outside the ordinary housing market, and take care of the interests of e.g. disadvantaged groups – and also finance kindergartens, nursing homes, nursing homes, etc. But as a financing institution for the ordinary private housing market, the Husbank has, in my view, played out its role.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e704	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e707	I would like to make it clear that the House Bank is important, and the Cooperative Government has also increased the Husbank's loan framework. The house bank has been a major cause of the high standard we have in Norway. It also concludes the much-reported ECON report. I think the strange thing about the fact that most people in Norway own their own housing, they also pay for well-kept houses – and gardens that come with them – that actually sign Norway. This is a positive feature of our country that the Christian People's Party would like to take care of. The House Bank is an important traveler to achieve our housing policy goals. The large-scale development of nursing homes and nursing homes is a boost for society that there is reason to rejoice, even though I would add that it seems difficult to reach with the signal that rigid demands for square meters in nursing homes seem to stand in the way of common sense. At least there is a lack of respect for society's always scarce resources when a fully usable building is torn because it lacks 10 centimeters in the bathroom, which the committee heard at a time. This is not acceptable. The size has repeatedly pointed to the faith for flexible interpretation of rules, and then it is in favour when the spokesman in Tingvoll told the conference yesterday that nine large walls were demolished because there was a lack of 40 cm to satisfy the rules of the House Bank. These include management, institution and politicians in disrespect. Sun sense must be used. I thought that there was a reason to point this out in the treatment of an annual report. The Christian People's Party and the Government are concerned that the Husbank should function for first-stage starters and for those with difficulty in the housing market. We would also like to stress that in District Norway, the Husbank has an important role to play in financing housing where the sal value may be less than the construction costs. Although this is an annual report for 2000–2001, the Christian People's Party has commented on the Start-up loan, which was introduced from 1 January 2003. It is user-friendly and helps young people enter their own homes, and it is of a size relevant to the market price. That's pretty good. Another important innovation that the Christian People's Party emphasises during the period is the «Project homeless». That an estimated 6,000 people don't have a hold on their heads in the world's richest country, I feel like a fallout. The Christian People's Party is overconfident that we are dependent on voluntary organizations also engaging to reach these with help. This has top priority. It opens up that all good forces are inserted to remedy unworthy conditions. As the first government ever, the co-operation administration has provided a big message on the fight against poverty, where strengthening support and follow-up of people with housing problems are vital. In the fall, there's a word of housing. The Stortinget will then be able to discuss housing policy in full scope. I don't think that should happen in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e724	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e727	The Christian People's Party is fantasizing that the House Bank should be a bank specifically aimed at the first-time start-ups. Then I think it is a paradox that the Christian People's Party is not more involved in ensuring that the subsidies that are in the House Bank become large enough to give priority to young people's housing and rental housing for young people and low-income housing for people who can't afford to pay the high housing prices. Because these are the high housing prices that are the reason why some people simply don't deal with the starting loan, which is excellent for those who can afford it, and for those who live outside the big cities, but who don't help newly educated pre-school teachers or nurses at all. There's another thing I do have to say: Once we've made sure – and it's a very successful project – that the municipalities have created housing social action plans and now need money to follow them up, then the Christian People's Party will not help to support the creation of a plan to eliminate homelessness, which they voted against in connection with the treatment of Innst. S. No 95?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e734	It has always been difficult to get into the housing market, as it is today. The initial loan is an innovation that actually helps, which actually means that those who are not necessarily creditworthy in other banks can still get a loan that helps them get into the housing market. I have experience with the Start loan from my close circle, where people actually manage because of it. I thought it was positive, because it also helps people in the cities, where it used to be very difficult to establish themselves for the very young. So the cooperation government has given priority to homeless people, we have given priority to young people, and we have, of course, through the House Bank, still intended to give priority to care homes, hospitals, kindergartens, schools and what one needs. I have to say, I think it's unnatural when SV claims that we've left these social priorities, because that's not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e741	I share Apelthun's view that the major debate on housing policy in the future should be linked to the housing message. But she mentioned in her post some moments as I found it difficult to leave it undisputed. I understand that the Christian People's Party is very satisfied that the Government has followed up on a programme of measures against poverty. one-fifth of the measures they took to propose in the anti-sampling message. I thought that the government’s management of the power crisis or the effort – or lack of effort – when it comes to housing policy, told of the great commitment to a coherent approach to this action plan. When, with its framework for 2003, Husbanken has to provide for both nursing homes, nursing homes and schools, how many have the representative Apelthun Seele actually planned to take part in a loan to a dwelling of nocturnal standard?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e748	I am pleased that the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa is still busy with the poverty message and the poverty package. I'm willing to admit that the Christian People's Party probably thought that we could have gone even further had we had the economy for it. We intend to reach even more than we have now, by getting started with the help needed on the housing side, but also in general against poverty. When the representative mentions power prices, it is clear that it was difficult for many in Norway for electricity prices to come up as they did. And it could hardly be said that it was the government that had sole responsibility for it. One should be very special to be able to claim it. But what the government has done, and as the Storting has even improved, is that more than 106,000 families with housing demands have been helped. They've got $2,500 in help with these power calculations. I'm very happy about that, but that doesn't mean I don't realize that more people are having trouble paying their bills.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e755	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e758	St.meld. No 13 for 2002–03 About the company of the Staten Husbank 2000–2001 is encouraging reading. She tells about a bank that has great confidence and satisfaction in users and that carries out very important supervisory tasks. The central government is increasing its loan framework from $8 billion to $11 billion. A special incentive scheme provided a good basis for cooperation with municipalities on housing social action plans. It is clear from the message being processed today that municipalities benefited greatly from guidance and information provided by the House Bank and also from the help they received to identify disadvantaged people in the housing market. It also appears that the House Bank has an important role to play in inter-municipal cooperation, which is often necessary in this field as well. Within a certain period of time, the central government provided a basis for the message we are currently processing, and the Labour Party followed closely. Autumn 2000, i.e. in the same period, a document number appears on the right. Eight proposals to convert the Husbank into a bank for first-time starters. The proposal was defeated. The Christian People's Party and the Center Party were united on thorough observations against such a conversion. The central party will warn today's government against releasing Right freely with its views on the role of the House Bank. The argument applied to Document No 8:23 for 2000–2001, is no less important today. The NOU on the housing situation from the Wibe selection underlined- also underlined the Husbank's very important role. It is the state's most important instrument in housing policy. The entry link is in a special position, and a co-ordinated Wibe selection suggests continuing entry loans, which means that the Government has already discontinued. Using the Husbank as an instrument to prevent undesirable fluctuations, i.e. counter-cyclical policies, is no less topical than in 2001. Similarly, I thought that the role of the House Bank in building housing in the districts, when it comes to knowledge and competence, is underestimated in today's debate. Ordinary banks do not have the competence, the ability to guide the House Bank today. It also applies to housing, the environment and quality, both in the case of new construction and in the case of refurbishment. In the note from the Christian People's Party and the Centre, an also emphasis was placed on the possibility of getting a certain amount of flats with no standard on the market every year, which can also be quickly traded and placed on the second-hand market in many cases, and which also means that several households in low-income groups have the possibility of having their own housing. The House Bank's ability to take risks was also underlined, and several of us in the Municipal Committee and the Stortinget have recently attended several housing conferences. For my part, I was actually surprised at one of these conferences in Rogaland that it turned out that important development projects were being put on ice last year because there was a lack of framework in the House Bank. And there were city government and municipal government representatives from Right to Right who asked their people to go back to their municipal minister and tell him that the Husbank's role in general housing construction should not be devalued. I find reason to remind you of this very thing today, because I thought it was time to give some signals in relation to the housing message that the Government is now working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e779	I want to start by saying that I am somewhat surprised that the committee leader can say that the government has terminated the entry loan scheme in the House Bank, when we use half of the framework on it, when we spend more than 7 billion kroner on the entry loan for the current year! I think a lot of this debate has a perspective where you try to sell your own policy and don't have the necessary substance. I would like to commend the case rapporteur for at least keeping to the message in parts of what he has said. I think maybe the purpose of delivering a message of that kind to Stortinget is to give us signals about what the House Bank is actually doing. I would like to say that if it is as wrong as Signe Eye said, it is strange that there has been a record in the building start messages in January, with an increase of 14 pst. There has never been such a high increase in building case messages, at least not in a shorter memory perspective. The construction activity in January has been reported to be significantly higher than it was in the past. There is no guarantee that it will continue. It depends on the development, on the economy, on the interest rates and on everything that really matters on how the housing market develops. But in the grey-cut and disheartened way that Signe Eye pulled over the housing market, I have to say that in reality out there has to be a slightly different perspective. So in relation to the message we're now dealing with, and the time period we're now dealing with, we have a higher loan framework. We have as much as we had in 2001 in housing grants. We have a lot more in housing support. We've given better loan terms for rental homes. And we've set up a new mortgage scheme, Start loans, for young people. A number of changes have therefore been made to improve – also in order to focus on those with the biggest problems in the housing market. The main focus of the government is on those who are young, who need their first dwelling, who need to re-establish themselves in new housing because of other things – people who have problems getting into a sustainable and good housing relationship without the help of other means than housing grants and housing support. They're actually the ones we have the main focus on, and it's actually to help those we've changed parts of the housing policy. When we look at the ECON report's investigation at 90 pst. in fact, housing will also be built with private funding, it is important for us to target the country's commitment to the 5-11 pst. which today requires the Husbank, i.e. measures aimed at those groups with poor self-financing capacity. That is why we have been dedicated to adapting the Husbank to that group of settlers in small dwellings and making the role of the House Bank more important in this area. It turns out that it's actually where the market can have a failure, just as the market can have a failure in terms of districts, and so we have a larger loan measurement in District Norway. When Signe Eye can even make a big point that we do not want to give housing grants to low-deposit housing, I would like to remind you that there has always been a clear majority on the Stortinget who have said that the homeless have the first priority of housing grants, refugees and the housing social action programmes in the municipalities have second priority and youth rental properties have third priority. Should there be money left – and it is not at the moment – you can discuss the size of the framework. It's related to how much money we can spend within a state budget, of course. You could've used more, but I think that low-income homes would be way down on many priority lists. The problem with part of low-deposit housing is that it reintroduces the 1970s problem: people who sit in priced apartments and who do not participate in the capital appreciation when it happens, and therefore have problems getting on and on into other parts of the housing market. Let me use my last minute to say something about the setting. I think there are two important chapters in this setting that should have deserved a little more attention. One is the review of the work on housing social action programmes. It was a good initiative from the Bondevik I government. It works well. The House Bank is developing as a good guidance bank for good housing social policy around the municipalities and is an instrument, a tool and a device that we should continue to have. The bank does a good job in that area. The House Bank has also done a good job in the start-up phase of the design contests that have been linked to addressing what is really a fundamental problem in the housing market at the moment, namely the explosion in housing costs, which means that the building costs underlying what needs to be financed, increased and increased. It's one of the areas that we need to find ways to take a closer look at, for example. because it's not like the Swedes have gone home. The Swedes are coming back, because they are considerably more competitive than the Nordics in this market at the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e802	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e805	The availability is also increasing in the construction sector. The house bank is a good tool and has previously acted as and has been used for short-term policies. But State Council Solberg does the opposite. In the eagerness to turn the House Bank into a social bank, the handcuff is put on everywhere. Statistics per year 1 March shows that approved entry loans went down by over 40 p.m., and the queues are increasing. That's an increase of 50 pst. in the queue of dwellings waiting for refurbishment loans, and there is an increase of more than 300 pst. in the queue of dwellings awaiting state assessment grants. A total of 7000 dwellings are awaiting such a grant. Why is it not released more of the year's framework, so that it can be disposed of more quickly, so as to combat unemployment better?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e812	When we've decided to put the frames out in the course of the year, it's just not to get into the situation that we did last fall, how much of the money was spent early in the year on projects that would be significantly less priority than any of the projects that weren't money for at the end of the year last year. Therefore, it has been important for us to have a balance of payments that ensures the most important projects – back to the 5-11 pst. which the private market will not be able to realise. Let's make sure we realize the 5-11 pst. of the market on which it is significant that the House Bank is involved, we therefore need to get this better in the course of the year. I would also like to remind you that the House Bank has never left as early as the last ten years, but it is not the first time that the House Bank has gone empty. It has done so for several other years also in the month change October/November, and we have been sitting with large cows after such a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e819	I can agree and join many of Erna Solberg's views regarding the Husbank. But I could perhaps get a slightly clearer statement from the Council of State on the role of the House Bank in the future. Does the Council of State believe that the Husbank should continue to be an actor in the ordinary private housing market? Or the Council of State would like to see the House Bank transformed into a more targeted funding institution for the 11 pst. which the private market will not realise? I would like a little comment from the Council of State to that very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e824	We will conclude on the role of the House Bank by the Government when we present the biggest news for the autumn. What we're doing now is trying to target the House Bank against where it's quite obvious that the market doesn't provide good enough solutions. Because there are some places where we acknowledge that the market does not provide good enough funding solutions for us to realize housing. That's why I'm not sure that a clean house banking role in the future – if you don't have a mortgage at all – will be the right way. Then I think we'll lose some of the 5-11 pst. where what we are talking about are important housing measures for people who will not be able to obtain funding in the ordinary housing market. There will also be a regional aspect in that context, which makes it important to include some of this. We come back to a balanced review of the role of the House Bank in the future. But I think very much of what the House Bank has developed in recent years, being a good place of expertise, among other things. for the housing social programmes and working much more towards providing municipalities with the right means is very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e831	We keep coming back to this ECON report, because it is interesting to see the role of the entry loan to the House Bank in the impact on housing construction. As I said to the representative Gitmark instead, I think it is important to keep this in a long-term perspective. There is no doubt that the House Bank's entry loans over time, and especially in times of decline, are important for the overall provision of housing. And then the Council of State is particularly concerned with the 11 percent that this report believes would not have been built. I believe that the Council of State should be concerned with asking the ECON question: why in the world hasn't ECON asked people what kind of housing was not built because of the lack of house banking funding, and because of the fact that the House Bank's loan frameworks had gone empty? Then I think the Council of State would have received a rather different answer, which would have shown that the House Bank was important.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e838	What does it mean to say that the House Bank should have a strong role in a counter-cyclical period? Does this mean that the House Bank will continue to finance projects when the spiral goes down, and when there is no demand for new dwellings? I have been through the housing crisis at the beginning of the 1990s and have seen how in individual markets the financing and contribution of new projects to the market may in the long run have created stability, but it has contributed to the private financial crisis to more and more young people in single markets – because new housing was delivered that pushed housing prices back into those markets. Housing is an important investment for all people. It's the most important monetary investment that's made. I am therefore a little reluctant to say that the counter-cyclical impact of the Husbank is so important that we should help to push prices in the housing market when the housing market might fall further into a period of decline, with high construction activity at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e845	The centre party is concerned that a certain number of dwellings should be placed on the market, even in slightly more economically difficult times. From that point of view, we believe it is important to stress the special role of the House Bank in that field. I'll take back the expression 'dissolved' about the entry link. I understand that the Council of State is busy passing it on. But the numbers that have been produced so far for this year, tell of a disturbing down-priority in an area where the government, in fact, had not cost the state money, could set up with increased frames and contributed to the fact that there were several who also got opportunity this year for their own housing. I thought we should learn from the experiences of the message, when it relates to the important role of the House Bank, even when it relates to the possibility of a general loan to dwellings of the sober standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e852	In fact, I don't disagree that we're going to try to have a basic building even in downtime. But I think it's important to stress that it has to be done with caution, because you can help to make the spirals different. Now I think the impact of the demand is much, much greater than the house banking funding will ever be. I think this will regulate the demand for loans in such a situation. On the other hand, I believe that if you're going to say that the House Bank is going to be a cyclical instrument, you have to take the other piece with you. This means that the Husbank framework would have been reduced in 2000 and 2001 in order not to contribute to overheating in the construction market, which we sometimes had. You have to take the consequences of using a bank as a cyclical element. Otherwise, it can be said that it should be stabilising on the basis of a market, but then you can't raise money after, every time the market goes up. I think you have to take the consequences of what you say, if the House Bank is to be a cyclical instrument like that. I believe the House Bank should contribute to stability, it should help us achieve our goals, not least for those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e859	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e864	As the case's rapporteur, I thought that I would say a few words at the end and grasp some of what is available. In terms of which parties spend the most money in terms of housing construction, I think people can go very well into budget revenue. S. No 5 and look at the level that both we and the Working Party had. The number's speech is clear, as it's called, and I think it will be in that context as well. So to Erna Solberg's statement in relation to economic activity. It is true what Erna Solberg says, provided that you agree on some kind of level you want for housing – if you want 25 000 homes or 27,000 homes, if you want a large supply of housing because of trends, which is also mentioned in the notification, and which is on a very strong centralisation process, which leads to more young people applying for cities. It is about changing the family structure, which leads to more people living alone, which means that, among other things, the need for small apartments is great. At the same time, however, there is a need to build larger apartments, including: in the central urban districts, in order to create varied living environments. Then it is not automatically that when you get up to 25 000, you have to tighten in. But it's definitely like that in a period where there's been low housing over time, it would be right to make sure to keep that case up. Then the Council of State has confidence that the market will control this. But the problem with this is that there's a price in the market, and this price is unbearable for very many young people, it's unbearable for very many people who are struggling, and who don't have such a strong economy. So it doesn't help to reduce the housing tax, for example, which is going to be price driven. But it would help to provide a high level of housing and then use fiscal policy as a tool to keep prices stable. Because it's only when the price bubbles up and then cracks, that people get a financial crisis. If you can keep the price pretty stable, it'll be the most important thing. Then I'll grab two things in the short time I have left. One is this with housing social action plans, which I fully agree with the Council of State that could well have been dedicated to more space in the position. But there is a point that it was difficult for us to obtain figures for the overall housing social action plans. I guess they're coming to the house report, I guess. For now, municipalities in many parts of the country have made housing social action plans and need money for follow-up. Then it is important that we prepare with the money. Finally, I would just like to say that it is a paradox that the government over time has reduced the subsidies to housing quality, such as: implies that money is no longer being given to build houses with heat pumps. The grants are offset after they are built. It's not socio-economically profitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e880	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2656]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e900	I have reported an interview to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs about a challenge facing tourist communities. So the resources for health and care care are usually too scarce in our municipalities. The situation is clearly exacerbated in tourist communities when the same resources are to be allocated not only to their own inhabitants but also to persons temporarily present in the municipalities. The problems that we're talking about here, there are many places. I have heard people elected in many municipalities argue in substance and strongly that there must be a way out of the misery of tourist communities. As an example, I mention: Gol, Tjøme, Trysil, Kragerø and Hyler. Common to these municipalities is that the population is multiplied during the tourist season. The challenges of health and social care are being reinforced accordingly. But the list does not end with these. Many other municipalities in different parts of the country meet the same everyday life as the elected ones in the five municipalities. Laws on health services and laws on social services give strong instructions to municipalities. In fact, they have an obligation to provide health care to the inhabitants of the municipality. The same obligation also applies to persons temporarily resident in a municipality. So this is where we find the basis for municipal duties, and it's in the documents that are fixed and tourists find their food for health care. We can therefore state that the duties of the municipalities are strong. The action room is small. The extent of the problem that is now being debated is growing. Demand is growing. The following comments are made: In recent years, hotels have become much more aware of facilitating the situation of people with disabilities than has been the case in the past. Hotel capacity is increasing significantly in many areas. Marketing is enhanced as a consequence. The municipal care services note that the need for services for passengers is in clear growth, especially where the hotel capacity is strengthened. People living in cabins or holiday homes are increasingly asking for home care and health services. The number of potential users is large. In the municipality of Tjøme e.g. Is it about. 4 500 fasteners. In the summer months, the population is increasing to 20,000–30,000 inhabitants. In the whaler municipality, the situation is even more demanding. There are 3,600 inhabitants in the municipality. In the holiday months, the population grows to 30 000. So it's going to be more than eight-fold. When we also know that the city of Håller has the people in many islands without mainland connections, the challenges become even more demanding than if the inhabitants were located in a few centers. As a result, the municipality has to provide special transport services to leisure homes for the staff responsible for providing health or care to tourists. Many cabins and holiday homes have received a high standard. It makes it easier than before to be bowing for a longer time in the tourist municipality. Ferietida is being expanded too many. In 2002, there were several recipients of nursing and care services at Hyler in their holiday homes from early May to late autumn. The tendency is the same elsewhere. In Gol Municipality, developments are completely parallel to the developments we know from Whaler. A large part of the cabins are far from the city centre. When people staying in the cabins receive health and care services, there is plenty of time to travel for them to be added to the community. From Gol it is reported that travel time of up to 45 minutes each way. In recent times, some municipalities have faced a new resource-requiring challenge. Retirementists are increasingly bowing on their cabins. Thus, the need for terminal care, i.e. care at the end of life. There is no original observation that the economy of the municipalities is poor. There are numerous and strong reports of this. The Central Association of Municipalities has recently stated that the economy of the municipalities in 2003 is worse than it has ever been in the postwar period. Every day in the tourist communities is probably not brighter than what we find in the country. I am aware that several of the municipalities that I have referred to earlier in my article have a very poor economy. The resources are scarcely enough to meet the health and care needs they have. On weekends, staff coverage is minimal. At the same time, tourist demand is highest on weekends and holidays. The economy allows little use of temporary workers and overtime. In the Empty Municipality, it is signaled that you need to recruit personnel in the care sector. Due to the failure of the economy, the municipality has to do so even if the crew is already low. In addition, problems arise with large and unplanned costs of services that tourists demand. Expenditure in this field is partly rising in some municipalities. Local authorities are struggling with the provision of qualified staff to cope with the health and care needs of tourists. This need is clearly strongest in a time of low staff due to holiday settlement. In many cases it is reported that it leads to wear on the addendum. The problem is growing. Health workers point to professional and ethical problems they face. Composed health and care needs. In isolation, this is a positive challenge, expressing an intention in the health sector in a municipality. But with the lack of resources, the priorities are going to be very difficult. The starting point is: Do you want to give the municipality priority over the building of the municipality? According to the current law, it shall not be possible to eliminate the need of one of the groups. Every day in the tourist communities it is necessary to go on chords with the ideal, it is said from the rental and they are added to municipal health and care services. A service leader in one of the largest tourist municipalities expresses it this way: ‘Residents are conscious and resourceful in terms of their rights and what they may require. We want to help those who live in the municipality have a qualitatively good care offer. There will be a conflict between user groups. In a number of municipalities with multiple population in holiday periods, there is a lack of qualified nurses. In Gol, for example, the municipality of Gol. is the publicly approved nurse in only half of the nursing positions. This leads to considerable difficulties in obtaining the skills needed to solve the complex challenges of health and care services. This interpellation shows that we are dealing with a problem that the tourist communities are unable to solve on their own. Municipalities are assigned tasks that they need to find solutions to. We're dealing with services for people who are temporarily staying in the municipality. Passengers are entitled to the services of tourist municipalities. This leads to large financial costs for the municipalities in question, costs that largely go beyond the supply that the same municipalities will provide to their own inhabitants. My question to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs is therefore: What will the Council of State do to remedy this imbalance?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e936	The representative Sandal addresses in this interview matters which also affect the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health. I have coordinated my response with the other departments with regard to the part that is their responsibility. Both the Social Services Act and the Local Health Service Act are based on the principle that the municipality of residence is responsible for providing the necessary assistance. This is the only rule of liability that can prevent persons seeking help from being rejected. The issue of reimbursement schemes was discussed in depth in the context of the introduction of the Social Services Act in 1991. The experience of the Social Welfare Act, which was replaced by the Social Services Act, showed that at the time it was desirable to leave the system of reimbursement for social services. Furthermore, it was unfortunate that social services were covered by reimbursement, while the Municipal Health Service Act had been based for several years on the principle that the municipality of residence is responsible for providing and paying for necessary assistance. Reimbursement liability currently applies only to stays in an institution or a residence with the care service of the lucky day, cf. the exception to the provision on the responsibility of the municipality of residence in the second paragraph of Section 10-1 of the Social Services Act. After the previous system, it was not uncommon for two municipalities to have problems agreeing on matters that matter to the individual needy. As a result, people seeking help were throwing ball between municipalities. What costs should be covered by reimbursement from one municipality to another, and what is a satisfactory service provision? Municipalities that had to pay reimbursement had an interest in keeping expenditures down, while municipalities that provided services did not have similar motives to limit the level of expenditure. Finally, I am going to add that such a reimbursement system is very resource-intensive; it leads to a lot of administrative work for the municipalities. In principle, there is no difference between municipalities with many recreational properties, where the municipality provides services to persons with a residence address in other municipalities, and municipalities that for other reasons provide services to non-residents, such as: municipalities that have many students. It would be difficult to extend the basis for reimbursement to other situations, if you were to give municipalities with leisure homes a basis for reimbursement. Both the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health therefore believe that it is not desirable to derogate from the principle that the municipality of residence is responsible for both providing the necessary assistance and covering the costs. Alternatively, you might think of taking this into account in other ways, for example: through the income system. The income system is based on the number of registered residents, based on the annual up-to-date figures of the Statistical Centre. It will hardly be possible for the income system, as it appears today, to take into account that some municipalities in shorter periods of the year have strong growth in the number of people living there. Today, the income system follows the principle that those who are registered — i.e. the built-in criteria — are resident permanently and are therefore registered in the municipality per capita. 31 December of each year. Let me also mention that municipalities that have many leisure homes can take up the issue of financial burden in the input to the county before the allocation of discretion on the budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. In the Ministry's guidelines on the distribution of discretionary funds by the county councillors, this is a matter which has not yet been mentioned in particular, but I believe that there may be grounds to take a closer look at this in the revision of the guidelines later this year. Although I understand that municipalities with a very large number of leisure homes receive slightly increased costs, the service is usually provided over a short period of time. At the same time, tourists add considerable amounts of consumption and some seasonal work places are created. It has a bearing on the income tax of municipalities. I believe, however, that there might be reason to consider whether there is actually a greater financial burden on municipalities with a large number of leisure homes. I have the intention of setting up a new income system sample, so that in 2006–2007 any changes in the income system can be taken into account. An important aspect of such sampling work will be to see whether criteria/weights in the income system are consistent with the composition of the expenditure of municipalities. In such a review, it is natural, in my view, that the actual expenditure increase for the municipalities has also been assessed, and whether it is of a size type that makes it natural to involve it in the criteria system, or whether it is the type of expenditure that should be managed by focusing on the means of discretion. Finally, let me underline that there are more and more Norwegians with a lot of leisure time. Several cracks older and lower actual retirement age contribute to this. Greater mobility and more people who have two homes in practice mean that we need to secure a flexible public sector in the future. As politicians, I believe that we should have man in the centre, not municipal borders or administrative boundaries. I am therefore prepared to look for good cross-border arrangements where necessary. I am concerned that we should take a closer look at the development of the income system in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e959	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I note that the opening is given to take a closer look at the following issues: The Council of State expresses the view that the Government will assess whether these tourist municipalities actually have additional expenditure due to the high population rate they have during the tourist seasons. It is a good thing that the Council of States is open to it. I don't think it's a complicated assessment, nor am I in doubt about what will be the conclusion to that assessment. Secondly, the Council of State says that it will allow the question raised in the interpellation to be considered in the context of the review and assessment it raises for the income system. That's also positive in isolation. But that distribution work is going to take a very long time. I am, with respect to reporting, more impatient than waiting for years to arrive at a system that is best for both those who are permanent and those who are tourists in these municipalities. And it's about finding a system that means that the imbalance that we're dealing with here doesn't live on for a long time to come. I would like to highlight the following main points: The dishes that users have, both the permanent ones and those that are tourists, must be attached. The tourist communities must be given financial conditions that enable them to receive persons temporarily resident in the municipality, without their being offered a permanent framework. I would also like to stress that it must be possible to find a state system for this which covers the extra costs of the tourist communities, without, as we are now, finding ourselves in a situation where we are creating unnecessary problems for them because of conditions over which they do not have control.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e970	I understand that the representative is impatient. At the same time, I have to say that if you want to make changes to the municipal income system, it takes time. I have also many times in my life wanted changes to take less time. I remember the Rattsø conversion, which takes ten years to complete completely. It is therefore important that we also do the basic work well in advance. I have pointed out two ways to do this. The short-term approach is to ensure that this is one of the themes considered by the county in the allocation of discretionary funds. There are guidelines which are given each year in relation to the fastest route and which also allow an assessment to be made of whether costs can be demonstrated to have such a size that they are relevant to the allocation, that they are really relevant to the choices made. There is a difference between tourist municipalities in Norway. It also said the interpellant in its article. He pointed out, among other things: Whales, who have huge numbers living there in the seasons, while there are others who have less. Therefore, all those who perceive themselves to be a tourist resort should not have unrealistic demands/expectations as to what compensation they may receive into a system. So the long-term approach is to assess whether this should continue to be a theme that should be assessed within discretionary means, or whether it is a theme that should be considered within the income system as such. So here you have time to do a thorough analysis of the amount of these costs and how to fit them in. I am, as I also said in my post, of the opinion that we must organize the public sector so that people do not experience that borders, levels of government or responsibility become the biggest problem in order to get the services they want and will have. There's a lot of ways to do this. I have recently been to Denmark and I have looked at a system that they have now, with statutory user choices in the care of the elderly, i.e. what is not institutional. It will also be easier within such a model to create individual solutions where you could take your local check or local grant to the other municipality, because it was then within an established system. There are many interesting opportunities to exchange when we look at how the public sector will develop in the future, and which might have made it possible to obtain a flexible provision of care. I think we're going to need it, because when I see the evolution of our society with regard to the elderly, when I see the generational and age composition, long after you've left active work, it'll probably mean that more and more people with the free time they have can charge other municipalities for the expenses because of, among other things. cabin, leisure or other travel objects.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e977	Governments are positive and open to find solutions, and that's good. Eastfold is a holiday country. It's not strange, it's a holiday paradise in many ways. Swaberg, sun, sea and cabins characterize the coast from Drøbak to the Swedish border. There are also many recreational homes along the two watercourses that go through the county, and around the large lakes. The population of many municipalities has doubled in the summer. One of these municipalities is Hyler, and I want to use that municipality as an example that being a holiday municipality does not just have positive sides. It has gradually become a major problem, especially in relation to demands for care and care when people are on their cabins. Whales have 833 islands, 3 500 inhabitants and a total of 5,000 recreational homes. Many of the cabins are on the islands. The municipality has a budget of 140 million. kr, and the transfers from the country are among the lowest in the country. In other words, whaler is a poor municipality. With 5,000 cabins, Hyler is in the summer the size of a medium-sized Norwegian city, the interpellant pointed out that there were 30 000 inhabitants there. It has implications for the dimension in relation to services, ranging from renovation, road, fire, planning and building matters, administration, and not least health and social services. These are the ones that are increasing the most, and it's necessarily going to have to go down on the residents of the municipality. These are rights that the cabin owners require and get. However, this right law is not reflected in the income of the municipality, either in terms of the grant criteria, the tax distribution or the reimbursement schemes. The municipality now notices that the requirements for home care, home care and care are increasing, and lie there as an unexplored bomb. Care is also required on the ‘most outer naked island’, where a boat is the only option to arrive and where there is often not even a proper berth to add. The municipality is also responsible for the employees, who must arrive safely in all kinds of weather. It costs money. So far, the municipality has accepted that this has been the responsibility of the municipality. However, subsequent legislation on rights has given the municipality a problem that it has great difficulty in dealing with and that probably needs to be resolved nationally. It is therefore positive that the Council of State will look into the matter in the context of a new review of the income system. But in the meantime this will be a major problem, and there must be a temporary state system that can at least take some of the root of the imbalance between transfers and the responsibility of the municipality of residence for its inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e994	It is an interesting issue the representative Reidar Sandal travels in his interpellation in the Storting today. The development of wealth makes it possible to spend more and more time travelling and spending less or more time in municipalities other than those where they live daily. At the same time, an ever lower retirement age has helped many to use their recreational property more than before, which is also stimulated by an increasingly high standard and comfort in recreational property. Several municipalities that have a lot of tourist traffic, perhaps especially on cabins, now report that they are experiencing a development that requires more of municipal services and that this need can easily conflict with the services provided to the permanent residents of the municipality. On my side of the country, where a large proportion of tourist traffic is what we can call base tourism, i.e. where the guests live on their cabins for a long time, this is starting to become noticeable, both in the Larvik, Sandefjord and Tønsberg areas. For example, the population of the municipality of Tjøme, already mentioned, is growing. from 4,500 people to about 30,000 some hectic summer weeks. Also several of the cottage municipalities in Hallingdal and municipalities such as Hyler and Kragerø report that this development is now noticeable. Recreational property is now increasingly used during the year, usually combined with a foreign winter time property. Thus, the pattern for the use of the properties is different than before. People simply stay on their leisure properties over longer periods than before. This updates the need for a more thorough review of the situation in order to identify a system that can better deal with this situation for the host municipalities in the years to come. I myself would warn against establishing or further developing heavy, bureaucratic reimbursement systems, systems that require a lot of administrative and control capacity. On the other hand, the forthcoming review of the municipal income system, which was just announced by the Council of State, facilitates a closer look at this development and assesses possible changes in the system of municipal taxes and taxes, which, together with the announced change in company tax, will make it possible to better capture this phenomenon. It will make it more interesting for cabin municipalities and other large tourist communities to further develop this industry. In addition, such a system will also represent greater security for guests in a municipality, when they know that they are in a municipality which also has the financial capacity to establish the necessary offers and preparedness to better meet the needs of assistance and service that may arise. This will undoubtedly be an important incentive to strengthen Norway as a tourist destination, both for Norwegian and foreign guests. But perhaps most importantly, it is to create framework conditions that allow Norwegian municipalities to invest in travel and cabin construction. It will also be good district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1007	To follow up on the representative eye I sat down to try to find a pearl in the North Trøndelag that I could mention in the same way. But then I came to the conclusion that this room has protected and saved the entire North Tribe team, so the problem is not present. It is clear that the interpellant points to a significant problem, which is strongly increasing. Obviously, if we don't do anything about today's income system for the municipalities, and if we don't do anything about the social services law and the reimbursement system, this problem eventually becomes so extensive that we might not be able to deal with it. It gets very complicated if we're going to deal with and maybe use today's income system to meet this problem. I think that'll be completely impossible. It is therefore interesting that the Council of State today draws up an example from Denmark, on statutory user choices. I think back on yesterday's Question Time, where the Council of State kind of ridiculed my question as to whether we should perhaps go in the direction of trying to align ourselves with more user-friendly systems, where the resources and resources follow the user more closely. I hope that the Council of State will further study the system in Denmark when it comes to setting up a sample to look at a new income system. In order to find a solution to this problem and to meet the needs of future users, where the requirements will increase — and more people have pointed to the mobility of the population — it is clear that we need to have a more flexible public administration in relation to the type of service provision. Then I just want to briefly point to alternative solutions. In fact, the representative Hogsnes was inside, without him deepening it further, this with the framework conditions for the municipalities. Of course, in order to facilitate municipalities that have a lot of tourism, we need to move towards more local authorities being able to control this for themselves, for example. through a free taxpayer. Now, when we look at the corporate tax, I also imagine that we are more and more giving municipalities the opportunity to get that kind of tax back. But it is clear that it is not quite right for the Council of State to point out that the municipalities generate large revenues with today's system in relation to tourism, because the state is running away with most of the connection between the framework and the tax. So the incentive to municipalities by retaining more of the tax revenues generated by tourism will be beneficial, so that they can facilitate further benefits and strengthen the benefits in the areas where the interpellant points to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1018	When the Municipal Committee travels, it is to visit all the Western, Southern and Eastern Norwegian states, to know the whole country. We meet many representatives from the tourist communities, not least in the summer holidays along the Oslofjorden, in the South and in the West. We meet representatives from municipalities that have mountain tourism and Easter tourism, and we meet representatives from municipalities around the big cities who experience that when you need leisure time and relaxation, you go to neighbouring municipalities and establish yourself there. As the interpellant has pointed out, we always face one problem – yes, actually we are presented for two problem areas, first of all what the interpellant has pointed to, the provision of health and care services. Many older people live in cabins for a long time in their leisure community. The second problem that we are made aware of, and that is being addressed, is the organisation of infrastructure, whether it is road, water, sewerage, renovation or fire services, which have also been mentioned earlier in the debate. The book Kommune-Norge – better than its reputation” by Bjarne Jensen, published at the Kommuneforlager, points out that the needs and demand for services provided by the local government sector, special health and social services, are developing in such a way that it is almost natural that with a higher level of income in society and the development we have had in the age group, a greater proportion of resources will have to be channelled into the sector. Jensen says: ‘Then it is essential that the income base of the municipality is developed in such a way as to have a financial basis for doing the job for which it is set up.’ State Council Solberg opened up to look at the problem, both in the context of revision of the income system and in the form of discretionary means. In many of the municipalities we visit, it is pointed out that today's property tax legislation has expired. When you look at this, it will also be a thought to bring forward the decision of the Zimmer Committee and make property tax legislation more into the pact with today's legislation. This is a municipal income potential.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1032	Today, the representative Sandal focuses on a challenge that several municipalities have pointed out in connection with the municipal committee's county visits. The central part of the interpellant shares the emphasis that providing the necessary health and care services for long-term tourists is a task that has been difficult monthly when the local economy is as dramatic as it was in 2003. In our view, the right to health and care services, which are enshrined in both the Municipal Health Services Act and the Social Services Act, must be maintained. We mean that the departments it's in, they have to take an open hold to contribute solutions when the Council of State no signals a review. We found 2006–2007 to be a far too long perspective when assessing how this should be done. We still know a concern about the government's reference to the use of discretionary agents as a solution. Let me underline: of course it can be in the short term. But it must involve a supplement in relation to today's discretionary framework, so that one cannot now risk further competition for scarce resources there as well. That's enough to show the saying that some of the parties thought it was getting 50 million. kr more in discretionary funds for resource-requiring users. We know how inadequate it was. And then we can't put up with any further competition. So this is a reference to the possibilities for local authorities to get their own income. It is true that typical cabin municipalities have a monthly responsibility in relation to technical services. In that area, they have the ability to make full payments. The centre party has warned that we are because part of the corporate tax is returned to the production site. We also want municipalities to be able to print their own taxes on special tasks for a special period. However, when it comes to securing good and serving care and health services for permanent residents, it is a task that needs to be resolved in a common way and in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1041	The interpellant sees here today focus on an area that has gradually become a burden for slumped municipal crates. Being a tourist municipality provides not only income but also a lot of expenditure. Expenditure is both direct and indirect. I myself come from the country's largest travel region. In Hallingdal, there are about 20 000 permanents. But the region has been good at marketing, it has a lot to offer, so on average it's going to be 50 pst. more in the valley every day. So the guests make up more than 10,000 people, who every day have to have the same offer when it comes to all municipal services, without any compensation to the municipalities. And on top of the whole, it's tops, like, for example. Easter now soon. Then the population can quickly become 60,000 and 70,000. It goes without saying that the municipalities cannot dimension their service for this. And in the next round, there are those who had to wait, those who were supposed to be with the doctor, but who didn't get an hour because the office was blown up. The waiting time may be many times long for those who are taxpayers with a fixed address. Also, all-day shifts are not an unknown orbit when it turns on. I don't mean that tourism is a negative thing. On the contrary, there are many good jobs for us who want to live where the stressy urban people find peace, are on recreation and get their batteries charged. We have a good place for them, but the challenges that have been pointed out today are a lot of stress. But it's not that the seasonal labour force that the Council of State had in it is big taxpayers to the municipalities they work in. Most taxes to their municipality of residence when they have a temporary job. In recent years, more and more have also become permanent for months. Cabins are as unknown as they were, many places are the standard very high, even better than a fixed location. In the light of this, the need often arises. The care sector also faces major challenges. It goes without saying that the needs increase as you get older, and you can find most of the long-term guests in your retirement list. Nor is it possible to dimension the service for. Append within the sector to the string more than ever. It is less than they want and need, and the feedback from those who are in direct contact with the user groups is not satisfactory. It creates stress and increases sick leave. Now it's not that one takes more consideration of fixed buildings than of guests, perhaps rather on the contrary. But the sum of the costs that municipalities receive as host municipalities is large. When one hears that Trondheim's chairman goes out and thinks that the students in the city who should report a move to Trondheim in order for the municipality to cover its expenses and the students to enjoy well-being in the municipality, a few parallels can be drawn. The system of making use of welfare and municipal services should be compensated in one way or another. You may not have entered an account without a host.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1061	The interpellant addresses one of several problems related to our income system. It's right and fair that the answer is also that we have to look at the income system. The problem is that we have built up income systems that don't give freedom, and we have a government that basically doesn't want the municipality to have liberality in its economy. I see that there will always be someone who does not get the services that they both have the right to and the right to, and that we believe they should become part of, when it is that the municipalities are consistent and would be underfunded. We have a debate about earring at the moment, and I think the Storting is moving towards not wanting to earmark so much. Then we're going to have a new debate, whether we're going to have minimum municipalities, which are always going to have to deal with changes, which are always going to have to deal with unforeseen things, or whether we're going to have municipalities with something liberal, which can solve the kind of problems we're talking about today in a smooth way. I would like to ask the Council of State whether it is such that in the future the Government wants to sharpen the services more towards so-called worthy needs, towards some clearly defined recipients, or whether it is such that in Norway we want a Community solution with some liberality, with some flexibility in the systems, which demands that there be some economy and volume of services.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1075	The debate on these issues has shown very similar assessments of the problem, namely that the municipalities with a very high temporary population fall into economic ruin. I'm happy for the wide connection. It must be an important signal for the Council of State to take on board the work of the Government in order to find a solution to the problem facing these municipalities. I am pleased that one, when it comes to the long run, will look at the criterion, but I would strongly stress that this debate has shown that one is impatient towards finding also good temporary arrangements. My main points are the following: the dishes that tourists have when temporarily staying in a tourist municipality will be at their disposal. And there is no need to be fixed priorities because of lack of money or lack of staff to perform health and care services in their municipality of origin. Another point is that tourist municipalities have to have defence economic conditions, and the state must be able to find a practical system that covers the additional costs incurred by the high population. I want to make it clear that a redistribution within an already too scarce financial framework I don't see as a dangerous way out of this problem. At that point, I conclude entirely with what the representative Meltveit Kleppa has also said. I expect the Government to go into this matter thoroughly and to be constructive in finding a solution both in the long term and also in the short term, and that the Stortinge will have the opportunity to say something about what will be the policy in this area in the future. I will end by saying the following: In the short term, the Council of State has pointed out that it may be appropriate to use shields to reduce problems for tourist communities. My question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State, on the basis of the debate in the Grand Duchy today, take the initiative to find a temporary solution to the matter, which is likely both for the users and for the tourist communities?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1090	Let me start by answering a couple of the posts that have been before, before I answer the final question from the interpellant Sandal. I would like to stress that I believe that neither free tax nor corporate tax are any particularly topical solutions in this context. A free taxpayer would be a tax on the residents. In this way, it will not be a tax on the tenants. I have also responded in the Questionnaire to the question of my attitude towards the free taxpayer. I believe that a freer taxpayer as it is today is an extremely centralizing measure because the possibilities of getting high incomes with relatively small increases in tax revenue will be very large in the population-wide areas, while district municipalities will have greater difficulty in obtaining additional income on the basis of free taxpayers. That is why my position is that I am skeptical about it. If this is to be done, at least I believe that it has to be done on the basis of a completely different municipal structure than the one we have today. Then it will be easier to implement, because then there will also be the possibility of a greater balance. Then I realize that many people think it's a long way to 2006–2007. If we are now going to make more changes than those that are already on the agenda, I think it is important that they be taken into account if it is to be done within the criteria system. In the short term, of course, it's possible to do it outside of the criteria, i.e. through discretionary means. It is really the only fast-acting device we have in this regard. I am prepared to make it clear in the guidelines that this should be taken into account. The size of the discretionary funds, the size of the municipal economy, will be allowed to decide by the end of June on the treatment of the municipal bill. Then you can choose the size of such a priority. So I'm going to be allowed to say a few words to Sandal about user choices. I am a strong supporter of developing user choices. Therefore, the Ministry of Local Affairs has also initiated that we now have 12 municipalities working in networks with user choice models. Oslo is the first to start. I see quite clearly that in the future user choices are a much better way to get flexible solutions that suit people who are moving across borders, are further away from home and perhaps within a period of time actually have two homes, than the system we have today. But the question is which framework to create user choices. First of all, I want a user choice model that the municipalities themselves have to implement and decide on. I think it's such a good offer to the voters and to the elderly, that all politicians are going to experience that demand gradually, experience that you want more models of the user choice type. Then we will also be able to have simpler solutions than the old reimbursement schemes, which were too heavy and administratively difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1101	That is the examination of case No. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1115	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 15 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the Coastal Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose exemptions from the first paragraph of Section 37 of the Rules of Procedure by giving access to lines, but so that lines and answers are limited to one minute each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three one-minute replications with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each group and five one-minute replications after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1126	The case concerns what SV warned against would be done already in connection with the treatment of this year's government budget. Then we warned that the unemployment rate was going to rise, that we were going to get an unemployment rate that led to more people going out into unemployment, and that the number of people on disability, just like the last time we had high unemployment, would increase. This is because every time we have a stoppage of unemployment, it leads to an increase in the total number of people who are permanently excluded from the labour market. Victor Norman has devalued the increase in unemployment throughout the last year and said that the big problem in the years to come will be that we lack people, not that more people will be unemployed, while at the same time it has been cut in the number of jobs in Aetat, which we have looked at with great concern. The Council of State has not shown the will, until recently, to increase the number of posts. We've allied ourselves with the unemployed. We've allied ourselves with scientists. We have allied ourselves with professional movement and others who have called out a warning. When the Minister of Labour made proposals that there would be 1000 job clubs, we thought this was too small. We are very pleased that today we have managed to bring together a majority to strengthen Aetat significantly, and that in this way we can manage to combat unemployment during the year. Indeed, labour market measures help. In the last few years, statistics have always been provided showing that the chances of getting into work after taking action are twice as high as the chances of not taking labour market action. That's why we've always thought that making sure that there's enough labour market measures to keep people off the job is a point in itself. Victor Norman, on the other hand, has said that it is important that we not just park people somewhere. And that's right. There's no point in parking people, but that's exactly what you do if you don't make sure you keep people active. We know from experience that ensuring that people get the routines of working life, getting qualification programmes to get them back into the labour market is vital. Another claim that has been made is that the people who are now going into unemployment are essentially people who are highly educated. At the same time, we know that half of the people who are unemployed are still out of high school. They are not skilled workers, and therefore these are people who largely need greater qualifications and more ability to work. We in SV have made a comprehensive proposal, which we have addressed in Document No. 8:78, where we say that we cannot understand that, in a situation where in parts of the labour market there is plenty of labour, there are many people who are being laid off, for example. in parts of our industry, which break to a very great extent, and where there are many people going without work. In the construction industry, there are more and more people who are permitting, and in parallel with this, we have huge unsolved tasks. Then, in our opinion, there is a need to invest more money in these areas. We cannot understand when in any part of the labour market there is a flood of unemployed people, that we cannot put these free hands into work. We cannot understand that putting free hands into work should lead to an increase in the pressure on the economy. We believe that there is a kind of east-block policy, where one tool is used to do something about all parts of society, regardless of what kind of needs exist. That's to say, the only thing that helps business now is tax relief to increase profitability. But it's going to be a completely wrong policy. We see that what is needed in parts of business, where there are a lot of people who are unemployed, is to put money in that area. This could lead to more work being done, so that important societal tasks can be solved. That's why we need more policy, not less. We're not going to plan everything in detail, but we're going to have reason enough to say that refurbishment of schools and the construction of gas ferries and other things that are environmentally friendly, and investing in environmentally friendly energy, does not lead to a fight after café employees in Oslo. On the contrary, the opposite can happen, namely that people stay in the whole country and leave to move to Oslo. So our perception is that if we're going to be able to do something about the long-term exclusion from work, we're going to be able to do something about the unemployment that's building up now, we're going to have to do several things at once. We need to turn the policy away from tax havens, which do not hit and ensure that people get into work, turn the policy around to bet in those areas of society where there are both unemployed workers and where there are tasks that need to be solved. Then it will be to bet on an Aetat that will be modern, that will be able to be adapted to the individual user, and that will be able to solve the big problems of being able to qualify a growing amount of the unemployed and an increasing amount of people who are being disabled, crucial to being able to do. To do that, we also need a strong Aetat. Aetat is one of the things that the government in the last year, since Norman joined, has built up in terms of employees. But fortunately, we are now in the process of getting a trend that goes in the opposite direction. We are very pleased about this, and we hope that progress will continue. We hope that the cooperation we can now achieve to meet unemployment can continue, so that we can do something about the unemployment of our society now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1149	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1152	SV is usually a good partner in the fight against increasing unemployment. The Swedish Labour Party and the Labour Party are some of those who say that the launch of measures, skills-enhancing measures, is a good tool for getting unemployed into the labour market. It is therefore surprising that SV now merges with the civil parties and adopts 1,500 action places less than the Labour Party. If SV still believes that a high level of action is a good tool, is my question to the representative Holmås: Why did the Swedish Labour Party not choose to cooperate with the Labour Party on a proper bet in action places?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1159	I fully agree with the Labour Party that it is important to bet on the fight against unemployment. That's what underlies this entire proposition. But there is one thing I don't understand about the Workers' Party, and that is that the Workers' Party is extremely concerned about ensuring that certain financial frameworks are kept in place in this matter. In this case, the Labour Party seems more concerned about spending money on unemployment measures, putting people on measures, than about spending money on just upgrading school buildings, social housing, rail investment and public transport. But that's our opinion. We have an overall framework that goes far beyond what the Workers' Party has, if we look at the investment in infrastructure, the effort to solve some societal tasks. If you add it to the action areas we have, it is the sum that far exceeds the sums that the Workers' Party has been willing to put in. Therefore, I do not understand the form of accounting to which the Workers' Party adds. And if the Workers' Party could help support part of our other proposals, we would be very happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1164	Lower unemployment is not a question of increasing the number of employees in Aetat or more action places, but it is about investing, investing and creating new competitive and valuable jobs. So there must be and created jobs to go to, so that the unemployed have something to apply for. So you can ask, what kind of business policy does SV have? What kind of tax policy does SV have? Here the representative Holmås says that they represent more taxes and more taxes on Norwegian jobs. Is this really a good employment policy? One might ask, how many more unemployed would we have had if we had the SV's tax policy implemented in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1171	To Torbjørn Andersen it's just to say that then we would have many fewer unemployed. So it's not like Torbjørn Andersen's right when he claims that putting people on action is a bad investment. Norway has been significantly lower in unemployment statistics than in other countries. other countries in Europe. There are many reasons for this, but one of the reasons why this is so is that in Norway, more than elsewhere, we have always provided broad education and a workforce that has been able to change jobs. Knowledge has been filled in in such a way that you can enter other jobs and thus be more involved with the industry and the needs of business and the public. That's why we've been able to keep a lower unemployment rate, without having the same inflation as you've had elsewhere. It's been very positive, and something we've been praised for in a lot of ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1176	First, I would like to commend SV for constructive cooperation in order to get actions in place and strengthen Aetat. It is important that Aetat works well when more people depend on the services they provide. The Municipal Committee has also said that Aetat should set up an hour. It is also important that the social security system and, where appropriate, social services are available and effective in dealing with those who need public assistance, and that is certainly the case. In order for Norwegian citizens to avoid running from one department to another, from one office to another, the government has proposed to coordinate Aetat, the social security system and the social services. So the government would give its citizens a barrier, a door. And then SV says no, and sends the SATS message back to the government. It's completely incomprehensible to me. This should have been done a long time ago, I thought most people had recognized it. And who becomes the losers? Of course, the unemployed, social clients and the disadvantaged. Isn't it supposed to be contextual in SV's policy? Don't they care for those who need a simpler everyday life?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1191	We sent this message back again, and there are several good reasons for that. We have been the initiator of and have programmed the merging of these departments into one agency – we have thought that would make sense. I reacted, among other things: that the work carried out was not adequately facilitated by cooperation between the municipalities and the State. When the municipal committee is out travelling, we feel that what is being complained about from the municipalities is that the cooperation between the municipalities and the state is not in place, is not well enough clear, that it is not well enough to ensure that it can be implemented, so that a good part of the people who need it most, namely people who need qualification, who are in a way completely at the bottom, and who today need help from the social office, can come in and get the same kind of help. We fully agree in principle, and I am sure that we can agree with the Government at this point later, but what was presented now was not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1196	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1200	Developments in the labour market are and have been very worrying for a long time now. Today we feel that almost 100,000 people are out of work. Therefore, it is disappointing that the majority of the population will not support the Workers' Party's proposal to create 5,000 new action sites. This would be a good handshake for all those in line for work. This could have given good qualifications to several thousand unemployed people. My claim is that the government is doing too little to meet the increasing unemployment rate. Both the crew at Aetat and the level of action have been far too low for a long time. In addition, this government is pursuing a policy of industry and industry that is far too defensive. The Labour Party has warned the Government and Storing plurality several times in the last year. The policy, development and direction are behind the Progress Party. History repeats every time Right is in the Government Corridors. Then it goes bad for the industry, and then it goes bad for the workers. It's a fact that in 2002 it was the highest number of bankruptcies anywhere. And it's a fact that 60-70 people have become unemployed every day this government has been responsible. If the government wanted to give priority to the fight against unemployment, they would have done so, instead of distributing large tax credits. The Labour Party believes that we need to make more use of our natural resources, through increased processing of fish, developing travel life and using natural gas in Norway. In addition, more innovation and new developments are needed. Only this will give you more new jobs in Norway. Here, the state can participate in a better challenge, more research, and not least by using SND's tools in a more active and offensive way. Other instruments are what we are dealing with today, i.e. labour market measures. The Labour Party believes that they must step up significantly. This is why we are proposing 5000 new sites for action if it is to be appropriate. When around 100,000 people are out of work, today’s number of measures are very close enough to meet the challenges of increasing unemployment. We know that action has a positive effect and that it qualifies for work. Statistical central agency analyses of regular action sites in 2001 showed that 43 pst. of those who were participants in labour market measures were at work six months later. Of the group not on action, only 27 had pst. worked within the same period. In 1997, we had one place of action in this country per year. three available. Today, the level is one space for action per year. eight available. That's why I'm most disappointed that SV and the Center Party are so defensive here. So instead of associating with the Workers' Party for a real bet, they go together with the Government Party and the Progress Party, and go to a level of 1,500 places less than what the Workers' Party proposes. In today's economic policy, we see some positive features. The interest rate is going down, and the interest rate is going down. The problem is that this happens at the same time as the unemployment rate rises sharply. I don't think I'm taking my mouth too full when I want to claim that one of the reasons for the fall in interest rates and the fall in the rate is that the unemployed path. And if the government part is to take the interest rate too low, then they must also take the "ear" of the rising unemployment rate. We now see increasing unemployment among groups working in schools and groups with care tasks in municipalities. The solution here – in health, care, care and education – is closely linked to the swallowing of the municipalities for which the government party and the Progress Party stand. I see this as a willful policy, which, in my opinion, is totally unacceptable. Finally, we support the proposal on security measures in connection with the Royal Court. And then I'll take up the proposal from the minority in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1221	The representative Sigvald Uppøen Hansen has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1226	I want to remind the Workers' Party that everything has a history. Our government is pursuing an active industrial policy, and the aim is not only to secure but also to create jobs. The most important thing we can do to combat unemployment is to eliminate the causes. This will require cost reduction and framework conditions to be improved. The government has led a responsible economic policy and contributed to historically large tax reliefs for Norwegian companies. This year the interest rate has fallen three times, and the rate has fallen by about 10 pst. since the New Year. Government policy works. It is surprising that a lot of government experience as long as the Workers' Party concentrates exclusively on action sites and does not have the ability to put in place long-term and lasting measures that can eliminate the causes of the vacancy. For how will the Workers' Party contribute to the creation and maintenance of jobs when the party at the same time increases public budgets and, by means of tax incentives, has made business conditions worse?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1235	I want to start by reminding the representative Holmberg of the developments that have taken place during the last year. We've got 30 pst. increase in unemployment in the last few years. There are 17,000 people under the age of 25 who are unemployed, and the unemployment rate among the long-term unemployed has increased by a total of 42 pst. from March 2002 to March 2003. It is now the case that, in addition to proposing an increase in the number of action sites, the Labour Party has presented a package to be an action package for increasing unemployment and a package aimed at sustaining competitive industries. There are immediate solutions that we already in the revised budget will come back to, and there are long-term measures for business that we are going to deal with in the context of the government budget for next year. So the Labour Party takes this situation very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1242	It's amazing how fast the cow forgets it's been calf. The increase in unemployment started with the basis of a working party budget – that is the actual ratio. But that's not what I was going to bring up. I would like to challenge Uppøen Hansen on a play that still gets away from the Workers' Party. In particular, Stoltenberg has a capacity to say that the Government, together with the Progress Party, has failed in the fight against unemployment – because we have removed holiday pay for the unemployed, because we have introduced day-limits for the unemployed, because we have reduced the support period for the long-term unemployed from three to two years. So my question is, what does it have to do with the fight against unemployment? With all due respect, these are measures for the unemployed – yes, I agree. But what does it have to do with the fight against unemployment? This is a fight for the unemployed – yes. But creating jobs, fighting further unemployment, what does it have to do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1249	The fight against unemployment is about much more than what kind of day-care arrangements we should have, but it is one of the elements that is weakening the basis for those who are so unhappy to end up in the unemployment queue. But what is the Progress Party doing? Yeah, they're trying to get away from the responsibility every once in a while. Twice now they have supported the government budget proposal. That means that the Progress Party supports the government's economic policy. In addition, they have helped to make the situation worse for the unemployed. They have cut in Aetat, they have helped to reduce the agenda, and in addition to my Advancement Party, that it will be possible to build itself out of the problems on the labour market, among other things. by filling with several crowns of oil. There are short-term measures, and there will create pressure in the economy, which will influence inflation next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1254	I just thought I should remind Sigvald Uppøen Hansen that we were together last time in the state budget about exactly the same framework for both action sites and bets on Aetat. Then we agreed. So now we are in a situation where unemployment is increasing, and where we believe that the priority must be first to strengthen the Aetate and strengthen the response places for people. Then we'll get an increase of 185 million. kr in relation to the first government statement. The working party is 114 million. kr over this, but we think it is more important now to start some projects that will give people work. It is clear that when there are unemployed construction workers, isn't it more sensible to start them repairing school buildings, building social rental homes, than it is to put them in action? Is there not something that Sigvald Uppøen Hansen will agree with, and is there money in the magnitude of what we have proposed, within the framework of what the Workers' Party will propose in the context of the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1259	I agree with the representative Holmås that it is important to do several things at the same time, both of a short-term nature and of a long-term nature. The SV’s representative says that we were together in the context of the 2003 State Budget when it came to the effort towards the unemployed, among others. in the case of an action site. That is why I have criticised SV for not wanting to reach the level proposed by the Workers' Party, i.e. 5000 new places of action. Yesterday, the Labour Party presented a proposal here in the Chamber, a package of measures against increasing unemployment and against the reduction of competitive industries. I feel in many ways that SV is in the same booth as the Progress Party, that they want to build themselves out of the problems. These are short-term measures. SV's contribution to the future of industry is minimal in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1266	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1269	Creating values before they can be distributed is a sin against many. The same can be said of the fight against unemployment. Creating new jobs and ensuring that existing jobs are not lost is the most important thing to do to prevent unemployment. Unfortunately, some people see themselves blind to labour market measures. It is only when both are seen in the context that you get an effective tool against unemployment. This government has done and does just that. The changes in the day-to-day pay legislation that came into force on 1 January of this year, strongly criticised by the opposition, encourage more active job search by reducing the total support period from three to two years. The reform will lead to a closer follow-up of the beneficiaries of the daily allowance and will have to be seen in the context of the strengthening undertaken by Aetat. In addition, the day-to-day reform removed the holiday pay scheme, also strongly criticised by the left. This scheme was not targeted, and the payment took place mainly after most had come to work. Since only those who received the daily allowance for at least eight weeks were entitled to holiday pay, the scheme also provided unfortunate incentives for applicant behaviour during the first part of the period of leave. Aetat has already been strengthened with about 220 posts in the 2003 State budget. In addition, it is expected that the establishment’s new computer system will release about 200 annual works. In line with Norman's repeated state council in most of the debates here, the government would come back with more action if unemployment increased. The Government has now done so, and has proposed, among other things, 200 new annual works for Aetat. This results in the largest increase for Aetat in ten years, almost without a single positive remark from the left. In addition to the strengthening of Aetat’s human resources, the Government has also proposed the creation of 1000 workplaces to increase the supply of structured follow-up and job search training. For many, the use of work clubs will mean more intensive and effective job search and thus increase the possibility of transition to work. A job club lasts for a maximum of eight weeks, and with 1000 seats, 6,000 people will be able to get a job offer in a year. This arrangement is also profit-based, where the organiser, in addition to payment per. participant, is paid bonuses by way of communication to regular work. After that St.prp. No 44 for 2002-2003 was presented, the labour market has been further weakened. As a result, government parties together with the opposition, with the exception of the Workers' Party, have proposed 2 500 new labour market action sites in addition to the 1 000 Government. It is of great importance that unemployed people are activated and qualified for job vacancies, as well as that the labour supply is maintained pending increased labour demand. In view of the situation in the various local labour markets, Aetat’s task will be to assess the final composition of labour market measures. In line with current practice, long-term unemployed, young people and immigrants will be given priority. The most important thing we can do to combat unemployment is to eliminate the causes of unemployment. This means that the costs and working conditions of the business community need to be improved. The main contribution has been historically large tax relief for Norwegian enterprises and a responsible economic policy. The government's tax relief has also been heavily criticised. The Labour Party and SV have believed that they represent a cold right-wing policy. That's not right at all. Of the 19 billion dollars given in tax relief during the last two state budgets, the majority have gone to business. And especially now we see that it makes sense. The tax relief has meant less leave than would otherwise have been the case. At the same time, we know that the last two years of tight government budgets have been heavily involved in three interest rate reductions. The fight against unemployment is primarily for government parties, and the aim is to secure and create jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1286	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1290	The right has, for a long, long time, denied that unemployment has been increasing and a problem. The Council of State has further claimed that there is a shortage of labour that is the problem here in the country, and that is the job club we need, not ordinary measures. But now the pipe starts to get another song. In the VG on March 14th, the council says that many of those who are now available will never get their job back. At the same time, he promises to make full efforts to avoid the permanent release of the unemployed from the labour market. Many have to be retrained or relocated to new occupations, he thinks all of a sudden now. Does the Right believe that there is an eight-week job-seeker course, as the Government suggests, these groups need, or is it re-schooling and replenishing skills, so that they can enter new jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1299	The most important thing we do now is to fight unemployment. It means DKK 19 billion in tax relief, most of which is for industry and business, to ensure that no more jobs are lost. Then we've never denied that unemployment has increased. Unemployment has increased every month since the summer of 2001, unfortunately. But we have also said that job club places are important and have to do, because there are many people who are unable to apply for the vacancies that actually exist. There they need a helping hand. In addition, labour market action places are important, because using labour market measures is more likely to return to work faster than without.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1306	The Progress Party wants to have a strong commitment and to take initiatives to combat the increasing unemployment. The Progress Party will put business policy properly on the agenda. We want to spend more oil money on innovation and investment in business and on development and innovation, and we want to expand and streamline the country's infrastructure, among others. better roads. The Progress Party will accelerate public construction projects, including: by expanding schools. Then my question is: Does the Right not see that these proposals from the Progress Party can help to get back to work, or is it still such that the Right believes that this will only create pressure in the economy, even if there is now free capacity in the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1313	In the short term – the Progress Party is quite right in – it will lead to more hands in work. In the long term, it means something completely different. In the long term, plunging billions into the economy means increasing inflation, increasing unemployment, and increasing the dollar rate. We don't deserve that. We steer the economy from a long-term perspective, where the framework conditions for business should be stable and good. So we're going to do that. I must also commend the Progress Party for having, together with this government, achieved historic tax reliefs for industry and business. We've done that together.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1320	When I listen to Peter Gitmark, I get a little startled, because to me it sounds as if Peter Gitmark has a market model in his head and controls everything after it. When it is possible to say that it is a little targeted policy to ensure that people who are unemployed should have qualifying days, i.e. that it is very targeted simply to cut off the schemes of the unemployed, I wonder: targeted for what then? It's a very focused policy to make sure that the cost of being unemployed doesn't get so big that you have to go from home to home and all those things to do something. It is very focused on ensuring that an acceptable standard of living is acceptable. I ask myself the simple question, which I also ask Peter Gitmark: Does Peter Gitmark not think that letting people go unemployed is a huge waste of society's most important resource?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1327	Well, it's a huge social resource that is being wasted by letting people go free. We want to do something about that break. We want to simplify it. This is done through tax relief, through stable framework conditions for industry and business, through schemes that actually lead to a desire to be at work and get to work as quickly as possible, and that actually bring incentives on the road to seek more actively than before. The daily allowance period is one of the measures that we have reduced, because we have seen that the longer the period of benefit is, the less is the search at the beginning of the period.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1332	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1335	A number of proposals have recently been made in the United Kingdom aimed at tackling unemployment. All parties, I think, have somehow promoted a package of measures here in the house, but these are not the issues we are discussing here today. Of course, parts of it are also covered by the debate. Today, we are discussing issues relating to engaging people who are unemployed – this with action places and clubs. It is important, but for the Progress Party, we would have liked the discussion to be quite different, that the debate had simply been a lot more focused on what we should do to employ people, because action places are becoming a lot more passive. Here I agree with the representative from the Right. What is wrong with the proposals and solutions of the Workers’ Party and the SV is that they are based more and more – if not in their entirety – on facilitating people’s well-being when they are available. It must be allowed to say in such a debate. It is interesting – and we would like to have a longer debate on it – what the representative Oppebøen Hansen said instead about the wishes of the Workers' Party on business development. It is easy to powder the arguments that come from the Workers' Party, among others. the putting into service of natural gas. I have studied very carefully what the Workers' Party has done in relation to putting into service and building infrastructure for gas. A gas pipeline in Trondheimsfjorden and possibly the establishment of a thermal power plant in Forest had simply not been possible with the Labour Party's policy, but they make it like it's the champions of it, in order to create nutritional development. On the one hand, they stand here in the hall talking about facilitating a company to finance infrastructure. On the other hand, they shall relate to international agreements which prevent it. There's a lot of holes in this. But then I must also be allowed to say both in relation to the Government and in relation to the Workers' Party that they actually agree in one respect, and that is that they should deal with an action rule. Regardless of whether we get a social development that is completely different from what was foreseen in the budgets, these parties should be related to the frameworks laid down. That's the big problem. When there are as many changes as we now see in unemployment, it must be possible for this house and the government to take immediate action, possibly using some more funds. It's not right, as it's said from the representative from the right, that we get people to work, it's going to put pressure on the economy. It's just to figure out the numbers that existed for 1996. Then we had a unemployment rate of 4.2 pst. The disbursements of the day's money at the time were almost NOK 10 billion. In 2003 we paid out NOK 7.7 billion. To me, it makes sense that if we had got more than a thousand people at work, we would have been able to reduce the 7.7 billion further. However, the situation now is that government and growth must make further payments to the day-to-day pay system. If it doesn't help create pressure in the economy, in line with the fact that you get employed people, it's something that doesn't go hand in hand. The Progress Party has promoted a comprehensive proposal in Stortinget. We shall have a longer debate on this later. We have proposed increased investment in research and development. We want to strengthen international export efforts, state development contracts. We have addressed asylum policy, defence, food aid to developing countries and increased the care factor in care services. The construction sector, the civil engineering sector, the school sector, the transport sector — there are a lot of tasks ahead of us that need to be done sooner or later. The fact is that this house, together with the Government, has decided that these tasks should be done, perhaps not this year, perhaps not in 2004, but during a four-year period many of these tasks will be carried out anyway. So we're measuring inflation over a four-year period, and then it also has to be possible to do these problems at an earlier date.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1348	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1351	The representative Sandberg just told us what we have long suspected: the party of progress thinks that the unemployed should not feel well. He must have thought that the Progress Party was suddenly caught up in the growing unemployment last winter. But in the budget, the same party voted for less money for Aetat than we did, the vote for less money for labour market sitats than we did, and they went in for reduced income for the unemployed. My question to Mr Sandberg's representative must therefore be: why was not the Progress Party concerned about the growing unemployment during the last fall of budgetary management?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1364	The representative Sandal is a clear example of the unprofessional nature of the Workers' Party. The beginning of his line belongs more to a kindergarten than to the Norwegian Storing. This may be the reason why the Workers' Party has serious problems arguing about who is currently the largest of the SV and the Workers' Party in the polls. Maybe it's actually so that SV and the Center Party are today more sober than the populist Workers' Party. If Sandal, who actually has some experience and some insight into what's going on in this house, had recorded what happened during the budgetary procedure, he would have seen that with our policies and with our alternative budget, not all of these unemployed had gone into unemployment. Then they had been in employment and had had it very well – very well. With regard to the changes we made in the agreement with those who are unemployed, there are clear signs in time that the measures we put in place there will create a greater interest in creating a job. It should also be interested in the Workers' Party, instead of letting them go passively on measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1373	An important contribution to helping the most disadvantaged in a situation where unemployment is increasing would, of course, be to coordinate the municipal and state-level bodies that are in the first line with their supply to the weakest in the labour market. Why, then, is it that the Progress Party also chooses to postpone the processing of, and therefore also the implementation of, the SATS project? There would, of course, be an improvement in the efficiency and simplification of public services, while at the same time providing users with a more comprehensive and better range of assistance. We all agree that it is urgent in a situation of increasing unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1378	Here I could have answered simply with one sentence: the reason why the Progress Party wants to send the message – about the SATS project – as it is called back, is that the Government has not done the job that Stortinget has asked them to do. The Storting has asked the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case relating to the merging of the floors. The government has not. The government's got one office, but no union of agencies. Here I would like to refer to the welfare options of the Progress Party, which we promoted three years ago, where we physically wanted to merge all these offices to create a single door policy, where the individual user – whether it be an unemployed person, a refugee, a social welfare beneficiary or anything – should have one person to deal with, a welfare consultant. We hope that when the Government now gets this case back to a new assessment and investigation, the result will be what the Progress Party has wanted for three years. When it comes back here, there shall be a physical aggregation of all the floors mentioned by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1385	It is true that Per Sandberg did not say that the unemployed should feel hurt, but he said knowingly that it was a point that they should not feel too good, and that was what was also the change in the policy that lies here. This is why we are in favour of cutting unemployment and disbursing the unemployed, as was the case with the Progress Party in the budget. It's a paradox for me about people who have been spending money and good money, that in order to deliver, they have to get huge a lot more. But in the case of people who are at the bottom of society and have little, the less you get, the more you have to be willing to do. It's a fundamental problem. Then my question to the Progress Party is: Isn't it a fundamental problem that if you don't have security in your life for housing and for sufficient income when you're unemployed, you don't have the resources to apply for a job?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1394	The party of progress is the biggest guarantee that people will feel good. The Party of Progress is the only party promoting user rights and rights in all contexts in which a service is to be provided by the public. But the Storting has not been interested in this for the time being. In this respect, as I said in my first reply, it is innocuous that the unemployed should feel hurt or good. I want all people to feel good, but I'm dealing with what used to be in this country, namely, doing your duty, demanding your right. Instead, we now turn it around in our head and say, "Request your right," and we'll see if you can do your duty afterwards. In the case of the long-term unemployed, there is a balance sheet. We know that we'll get people to work faster. We can only look at Sweden and Denmark that have a two-year long period. In terms of holiday pay, I think it's unfair for the unemployed to have 13 payments, while the people at work only have 12 payments. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1403	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1406	Let it be clear to the Stortinget and to the Norwegian people that job no. 1 for the Government is to realize "Work for All". Unemployment is tragic for the individual, for the family, for the community and for the nation. Let me make it clear that all the forces must be mobilized in order to overcome the unemployment problem. Everything should focus on securing and creating jobs. In fact, the government has closed down the most basic plans to reverse development. Interest has been reduced by 1.5 pst. That's not enough. We're far from the goal, which must be a level of interest in line with the level of our competitors. But the arrow points to the right path. It'll be alarming if we don't see a new interest rate drop soon, and it should be significant. So the government and the majority of the population have their prescription. Lower interest rates create a basis for a weaker price, and this means a great deal – almost everything in fact – for a part of our competitive industry. When I meet someone from these companies, the first problem is how much interest is going to be. It is also important that wage developments are under control. It is important for companies to survive and not fly out, so that they can still get jobs for people. It is alarming that almost 100,000 people are available today. It is unacceptable, and those who are unemployed must be helped to qualify on the labour market and to be at the cutting edge of the labour market that is, after all, there. For this reason, a majority have proposed that action places be expanded considerably from the 1000 new job club sites that were the government's original proposal, to 3 500, which is a proposal all parties agree on, apart from the Labour Party. One should not underestimate that this was also important in order to achieve a moderate wage settlement. Both growth and government must follow developments closely and not allow unemployment in Norway to become, for example, in the EU, or as it was early in the 1990s. To meet the challenges and get people back to work quickly, Aetat will be equipped with 200 new options. It's important that Aetat works. Nine out of ten unemployed people, after all, have to cope without action. The working party’s package of measures found me particularly positive. The Labour Party has many ideas that they are asking the Government to evaluate. There are largely familiar thoughts, but of course the government is going to turn all the stones. It's necessary. In this situation, all political parties should work together to reduce unemployment. Otherwise, I think that unemployment should be met with a custom counter-cyclical policy – as Keynes has taught us. It makes sense to find pockets with free capacity that can be used without increasing the pressure in the economy again, because the most important thing is that the price and the interest rate are kept in check. Paying people to put in place a school or a useful road map for business rather than giving them unemployment benefits is sensible, and it was suggested by the Minister of Finance here every day. Together, we need to find the best solutions. Then we have to think that new businesses are not being adopted, they are being created. We need to provide facilities for workers, not just for employees. The Christian People's Party believes that the business environment needs to be improved in order to remove the causes of unemployment. There is a need to give tax relief to the business community, and that is what the government has essentially done. But the government will also make sure that the security network is intact for those who are free. So the daily allowance is the same as before, and I'm asking people to pay attention to it. That's the fact. The daily allowance is the same as before. At the same time, we have had a historic strengthening of Aetat, so that the time available will be as short as possible. Otherwise, I am of the opinion that the King and the Queen should be satisfied with certain insurance measures – a somewhat strange matter that hangs on this matter, but perhaps a little counter-cyclical policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1427	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1430	My claim is that the Christian People's Party does not prioritize the fight against unemployment so far. Instead, they are influenced by the right hand side by issuing large tax credits, by weakening the daily allowance scheme and by starving the municipalities. This is a new policy from the Christian People's Party's side, and the representative Apelthun Seile just spoke as a Right-Representative. I shall quote a resolution from the County Council in the West Agder Christian People's Party: ‘Deficient efforts at labour market measures will lead to a deterioration in the well-being of people affected by unemployment. This will include, inter alia: impose financial burdens on municipalities in the form of, inter alia: increased social assistance payments. Vest Agder Christian People's Party asks the government to put in place measures to improve the situation of the unemployed, among other things. to increase labour market measures and return to previous day-to-day arrangements.» Is it true that the representative Anita Apelthun Seele has a different view of today's situation than her local party communities in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1442	First of all, I want to say that as I have spoken today, so I have really talked for a long time before I came into the Stortinget. I am growing up in a small company, and I know how those who create jobs, also struggle. That is why I have always been in favour of a good framework for business. And the Christian People's Party has had packages of measures for family businesses, where just tax relief for small and medium-sized enterprises was an important thing. So, for a day's money. So the daily allowance is just like it used to be. There are no day money recipients who have experienced less than they have received before. In fact, the payment of holiday money to the beneficiaries has changed, i.e. the money they were to receive next year, but no one has yet received. Many people believe that the daily allowance has been reduced because it has been said many times. So that's not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1451	In some ways, Anita Apelthun's seal is right, but it takes longer before you get these daily money, and it's loss, too. I am very pleased that we have managed to get the Government to participate in a greater commitment to labour market measures than that underlying the first proposal. It's a lot bigger bet. There are quite a difference between 1 000 job club-related action places and 3 500 action places, which is what is now in there. So the Minister of Finance has said that in the time that comes, you have to spend more money on tax bills, because it's smart. But I understood knowingly that Anita Apelthun Seele said something about it being smarter to make sure to use your pockets – that was the expression that was used – in the labour market when you have people who go out of work, and rather put money there. Is this a different position from that of the Minister of Finance, so that Anita Apelthun Seal is with us now?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1461	Now the representative from SV is going to sound like they've managed to get the Christian People's Party and the Government to participate in a little more action. That's not exactly the truth, is it? But I'm going to commend them for being in – and I had expected it – to increase the response places in the situation we're in right now. There will now be 3 500 new sites for action. This means a significant increase in the number of action places on average over the year. I'm glad. So there's a question of whether I disagree with the Minister of Finance. No, I don't actually think I am. I have not discussed this directly with the Minister of Finance, but I have read what he has written in the newspapers, and it corresponds well with what I mean. Paying unemployment benefit instead of finding free-of-charge pockets is stupid. That's why we're looking for such pockets. Actually, he did.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1468	I understand Anita Apelthun's seal so that she is busy both securing today's jobs and creating new ones. I also understand that she is taking a distance from both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Industry and they say that one is not so busy with the jobs that disappear, but more busy with the jobs that come. The representative likes to defend this government in thin and thin, but here I see that there's a point where she cares. Then one makes it so that the tax bill that is now given benefits business. But there's a huge difference, for example. what the Central Party and the Christian People's Party have previously been united about, exemption from taxes on food and what it means for small businesses, and the tax that has now benefited everyone, as the Statistical Central Bureau now shows to a very small extent, has reduced unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1475	I think we should secure today's jobs. It's also meant to be behind the government's policy. The government can do what it can to get interest down – high interest rates actually endanger today’s jobs – and the government can do it so that the krone price doesn’t get so high that it beats businesses, not least along the coast, bankruptcy. The government can do what it can to get a moderate payroll, which means a lot for all jobs in Norway, not least for those outsourced jobs, where they cannot increase the price of their product and thus pay the wage increase. All of this has been closed by the Government. But at the same time, it's important – and I hope I don't disagree with anyone in the Government in that – that a person is working hard to create opportunities for innovation in Norway. Most of the jobs we want in 20 years will be in companies that are not yet created.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1480	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1483	The government carried out an awareness-raising distance from reality when it refused to innovate in the preparation of the 2003 government budget for increasing unemployment. One month into 2003, the Government asks for support to strengthen Aetat and to get more action places. There are two grips that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party would have in place before Christmas. Societal costs of unemployment are very high. It is easy to quantify the increase in unemployment and the reduction in tax input. An increase of 10,000 people available requires an extra 2 billion kroner in unemployment benefit. In addition, there is lost value and competence. The effects on individual social and economic interests must also be considered with concern. In fact, new research shows that long-term unemployed men have a significantly increased risk of serious diseases. Those who lose their job are at three times more likely to get even as a disability pensioner. In many cases, closures have affected whole communities and regions. Uncertainty and loss have frames far more than just those who have lost their jobs. The reality is worse than the statistics tell. The entire Committee agrees to strengthen the A-etat in accordance with the Government's proposal to secure the A-etat, as the main instrument of the etat itself, is a better starting point. The centre party is in the plurality that now boasts 2500 more action places than the government's original proposal. We are very pleased that we can now record that several of the proposals we make in our 2003 alternative budget are now being evaluated by several parties. We will come back to that in connection with the revised budget. These proposals are no less topical now than they were in the last budgetary management. We want to use available capacity in the construction industry for transport purposes. It applies to maintenance, racial protection and the removal of bottlenecks on some road sections. We will strengthen the instrumentation to create and maintain jobs. The SND shows that they can contribute 60,000 new jobs over a decade to the extra permissions they requested. For next year's budget, they asked for 500 million. and wanted to create 1 000 new jobs. There is a need for a commitment to the development of competences in the yard industry in order to maintain competence at a time when many are laid off and left out in this industry. It is necessary to freeze the debts of the fishing industry over a time-limited period to allow for review of the situation and to propose measures for a holistic and long-term transition. It is important to use available capacity in the construction industry to maintain and improve school buildings. And it's important to avoid further depopulation in the public sector. In the long term, we must now have the eye to strengthen the areas where Norway is good: knowledge, capital strength and natural resources. There is a need for targeted investment in areas where Norway can best become international as well. It applies to both maritime and marine industries, offshore and shipbuilding, space, woodworking, furniture and travel. In that case, we will also have to rely on sound instruments for better access to capital for both larger knowledge and small businesses, and it will have to be invested in regional industrial funds in a cooperative between private investors and public capital. The system of seed funds must be expanded and we must have a much more offensive use of development contracts. Then we also have to exploit broadband, which will allow District Norway to exploit new technology in a better way than today. So then the state has to bring funds in that area as well. So if it has been a discussion about the Progress Party, the unemployed will have to feel good or bad. I understand that when the Progress Party attacks the Workers' Party and others for wanting the unemployed to feel good, it's the opposite of having it hurt.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1502	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1505	I agree with the representative that it is alarming that the government sees a few months into the budget year the need to change the budget they so strongly argued a few months ago. The Labour Party and the Centre agreed on an active labour market policy already when the Stortinge were dealing with the budget last autumn, and the labour market situation has now become even more serious. First of all, there is a need for action – we need an offensive policy in business, there is a need for innovation measures – but there is also a need for an even more offensive activity on labour market measures than it saw last autumn. I am surprised that the Central Party does not agree with the need for more offensive measures and labour market measures than the unit that has now been put in place with the Government, and I must say I am somewhat disappointed that we did not get a solution to a more offensive bet from the Central Party at this rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1514	It is exciting that, from so many different parties, proposals are now being made for action in both the short and longer term to ensure more unemployed people a job, whether it is about the transport sector, the construction industry or the other areas that I was in my post. So it is that the Center Party is also concerned that there is a need for special labour market measures, and believes that there is good reason to strengthen those we have. In this case, we actually felt that it was more important to contribute to a broad majority than that some would be standing in 1000 and some in 2,500 more action places, even then the Labour Party with the highest bid. But I'm going to promise Schjøtt-Pedersen one thing: we're going to come back to this in connection with the revised budget. It's a month before it's presented, and we're waiting for the government to update the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1521	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1524	There is broad political consensus that work for all is one of the main policy objectives and that unemployment must be combated with great strength. At the same time, many people in the debate are trying to appear to be more concerned about this than others. There will be many empty words and symbols – and some incalculable criticism. The Labour Party has the principle that it is the government that is always responsible for unemployment. Anyone can see that is not particularly credible. The largest unemployment rates we've had here in the country, we had under labor party governments. But I am not blaming the Grand Governments for deliberately entering too high an unemployment rate. Nor will I blame the social democrats in Sweden and Germany for this, because the unemployment figures in these countries are growing more than in Norway. Germany is now up to 10 pst. higher unemployment than the EU average. It's a mockery of people's intelligence when the Workers' Party today makes the matter a propaganda game and simplifies obvious contexts. It should be easy to agree on the cause of rising unemployment: the international economy and a high level of costs in Norway, not least because of excessive wage growth over many years. The Holden selection, which presented its setting yesterday, showed it clearly, with the connection from both LO and YS. The respect for politicians would have been greater if we had had a more honest debate and less party-political propaganda. It's good that we sometimes get such thorough, professional reviews, so that we can put things in place. It is not that easy to run a tactical game in such a selection. The Socialist Left is also not particularly credible in the debate. The SV and the Advance Party had a prescription during the autumn budgetary procedure which would have increased the unemployment rate, which is why businesses are receiving it. UKL 7 billion in tax increases to business might not have contributed to less leave, nor would the Progress Party's consistent rejection of tight budgets. It is positive that the Labour Party has historically co-existed with the Government in the basic need for a tight budget. But we note that it is the Workers' Party that characterises important tax reliefs for business as tax reliefs for the richest, and conducts lightly populist rhetoric around important industrial policies, such as: the elimination of double taxation on dividend dividends. This was the Workers' Party throughout the 1990s for, but now it has suddenly become a major political symbolic cause. The government is taking most seriously unemployment. The measures implemented by the Government have been explained in previous speeches and new measures will be included in the revised budget. I don't see that other parties have any better measures that would have changed the situation in the short term. The Working Party requests in its Document No. Eight proposals for the Storting Government to consider a number of proposals. I am absolutely sure that the Government will do, sail if part of the proposals are less targeted than others and some are marked by budgetary struggle. However, constructive cooperation in the interest of the unemployed should be facilitated throughout the country. It's not always that old, well-tested recipes are the most effective in a new era. Both the Workers' Party and the Advance Party are very concerned with measures that are environmentally questionable and that taste old-fashioned power-socialism regardless of the environment. It is no longer the case that there is a contrast between environmental considerations and workplaces, rather the opposite. For example, if you were to bet on gas, it would have a very small employment effect. One of the natural power plants that have been granted permission to build will provide approx. 40 jobs. Corresponding bioenergy-based production will provide between 900 and 1500 permanent jobs according to estimates from Norwegian and Swedish bioenergy associations and the Agricultural High School. In addition, jobs through bioenergy investment will benefit districts in a completely different way from investment in one or two installations based on fossil energy on the coast or in a city. The fight against unemployment is a major issue for the Left and for the Government, and we are going to address the challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1545	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1549	The registered unemployment rate has increased by over 50 pst. since the current government came to power. The number of long-term unemployed is 42 pst. higher from March 2002 to March 2003. At the end of the previous month, a total of 106,600 people were unemployed or on measures. This is a very serious situation. In spite of this alleged state council Norman 4 January of this year: ‘The basic problem is labour shortage.’ So it is not the solution that is the biggest challenge for the Minister of Labour, but that there are too few people to solve unresolved problems. My question to the representative Skei Grande must therefore be: Is there a precise assessment by the Council of State, an assessment that the Left can put behind?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1561	The representative Sandal represents an ideology called ‘social democracy’. It looks very often at tables and very rarely at people. If you go behind the unemployment figures and look at what's there, we see that there's a whole new type of unemployment compared to the one that's been there before. There are other groups – those are highly educated people – and there are different compositions of the unemployed than what we have seen in the past when unemployment has increased. In some disciplines, and also in some unskilled groups, we lack people. Businesses go doll because you don't have people to do that job. So it's not as simple as social democracy is trying to make it like that. There are people behind these numbers, and the group of unemployed is composed. If you do that exercise, you'll see that the government council Victor Norman's assessment is absolutely correct, and the left supports that assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1571	I'm going to follow up on some of the same waters. The left has just had a national meeting. In this context, Minister of Agriculture Sponheim and Thommessen, who – as far as I understand – is a business-political spokesperson in the Left, has said that more pressure needs to be put on increasing the immigration of unskilled workers. The Thommessen stated in the same breath that at least 10000 unskilled workers must be imported into Norway this year. How does the representative view this in relation to the fact that we are witnessing a reorganisation, modernisation, in the public sector, that the WTO negotiations are likely to reduce the number of persons employed in the primary industries, that 500,000 people work part-time, that the EU is expanding next year, and that the Norwegian labour market is likely to have a great deal of access to both unskilled and skilled labour? Is it related to the opinions of the National Council of the Left and to what the Council of State said on 4 January?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1580	Now I was a little disappointed. I have understood that Per Sandberg is not for work immigration – it was not a bomb – but I had expected the Progress Party to be able to see that different people have different things to offer. Some people think you're importing a number of people who stand in a row. In fact, we in the Left believe that when you open up labour immigration, you open up to people who have creativity, ideas and thoughts about how to create jobs as well. We have faith in an immigration of labour based on the fact that people can come here to the country not only because they are persecuted, but because they actually dream of having a future here in the country, and that it is actually also an advantage in terms of creating jobs. We thought there would be hordes from Portugal to our little north corner because of the EEA agreement. It hasn't. I don't think there's going to be hordes after the EU enlargement to the east. It is not certain that everyone dreams of living in this cold country in the north. I think we have completely different challenges in this field than Per Sandberg sees.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1589	Step Skei Grande opened his post saying that it could sound like someone in this room was more concerned with the employment situation than anyone else, and that is the case. I'll give Skei Grande the advice to read through the various alternative budgets that were provided in the fall. Then she'll see it very clearly. It itself represents a government that has business neutrality as its overarching goal. In the fall they were initially not willing to deploy funds for the cork maritime sector, the yard industry or the furniture industry. They were totally uninterested in putting in means of transport, although they could have prevented some of the unemployment and even met the national transport plan, which they are now far behind. They pinned down the district policy tools, and likein's municipal sector. I understand that the representative is busy with the individual. But with her focus on tax havens, it looks like she's busy with individuals other than the rest of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1596	Now, Magnhild Meltweid Kleppa was close to my point, which is that we all say that we are concerned about this, but we want to use very different instruments. It is clear that SV is very concerned about the conditions for those who are unemployed. But if you add NOK 7 billion more to taxes on business, it's clear that creating jobs will be a little less money for. The rhetoric of the Center Party is not so far away from tax relief to the richest. In terms of providing business space in a country that has been very under pressure in many areas, we are actually able in Norway to keep growth in unemployment lower than in the rest of Europe. That must mean that some of these things work. And giving tax relief to the richest is actually giving business space to create jobs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1603	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1606	It took time before the government finally realized that there was a need to do something to meet the increasing unemployment. When the Workers' Party was concerned about the development we saw last year, the government's representatives called it 'black paint'. But the proposition that the Government has put forward on efforts to combat unemployment, which is being addressed today, was too late. We also believe that it is too puzzled. The government's proposal for a 1000 new jobs club places is too small when the unemployment rate is approaching 100,000. In addition, the working party believes that there is a need for regular action spaces, not job club places. Today, there is only one action site per year. Eighteenth unemployed. At the previous leave stop, there was about one measure for each other unemployed. The relationship between action places and the unemployed indicates the efforts of the authorities to help combat unemployment. The labour market measures are a bridge between the unemployed and the labour market. In the 2003 state budget, the government refers to a survey on labour market measures undertaken by the Agency. Here it becomes clear that those who have taken part in a labour market measure have far more opportunities to get a job than those who have not. There are signs from all over the country that there is a lack of money for qualifying labour market measures. The Workers' Party proposes to set up 15 000 new labour market action sites. Unfortunately, we did not get a majority for that. However, the majority of the municipal committee, including the government parties, is in favour of establishing about 2,500 in addition to the government's proposals. Fortunately, the government parties in the United Kingdom are more concerned with bringing the unemployed into active action than the Government and the Minister of Labour have been. The labour market situation is serious. The latest available unemployment figures from the Labour Market Act came on 3 April. They show that 91 391 persons were registered as completely unemployed. It's an increase of almost 30 pst. from the same time last year. Unemployment among young people under 25 years of age has increased sharply. The Working Party shall have in its own Document No: Eight proposals were put in place to reintroduce the Youth Guarantee, a proposal that guarantees a job, education or action offer to young people under 25 years of age, so that no one can go free for more than six months. Unfortunately, the numbers also tell us that long-term unemployment has increased. There are dramatic numbers, because they show that unemployment is getting stuck and doesn't seem to be a passing phenomenon. Since the Bondevik II government took over in October 2001, registered unemployment has increased by around 52pst. And I have to say that the most concrete government has actually done is to exacerbate the conditions for the unemployed in the event of a deterioration in the unemployment rate. It testifies to a poor understanding of what it's like to be unemployed, and I think it's quite wonderful to hear the Steps of the Left Skei Grande saying that the social democrats are concerned with numbers and not people. I think this government has illustrated with weight that they do not understand the human effects of becoming unemployed. Unfortunately, the views are not good. The numbers that we get from the Statistical Central Bureau tell us that we can face a long period of high unemployment. It is also the case that a number of Norwegian companies, through their management, have announced that they consider to a large extent to be in favour of redundancies during 2003, so that we can expect this situation to increase beyond the year. It is my opinion that the Government for too long underestimated the seriousness of the labour market, and, as has been said before today, Minister of Labour Victor Norman has previously stated that the basic problem is the lack of labour. I believe that he was thoroughly wrong. The basic problem is that unemployment is high, that it continues to increase, and that the government has done too little to combat it. Labour market measures are important, but I think all the parties agree that an offensive is also needed in industrial policy in relation to innovation, in order to meet such a situation. At least the parties on the Stortinget show it. They have put forward various proposals. The Labour Party has presented a comprehensive package of proposals to prevent increased leave and measures to reduce our competitive sector. I encourage the Government to follow this up when they are going to come back to the Storting in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1632	The basic problem in the Norwegian economy is the lack of labour. If anyone in this room doesn't see it, there's someone in this room who has forgotten why the previous government, just before it went off, signed an agreement on a more inclusive working life to make sure that we didn't throw away hundreds of thousands of people with workable age who today don't get away with because they're either disabled, are over 58–59 years or for other reasons haven't escaped into the labour market, and this in a country where we have a sea of unsolved tasks. And if there's anyone who doesn't see that we have unsolved tasks, I would recommend a visit to any elderly institution in Norway, any place where there's no nursery places, any hospital or any place in Norway where there's no basic means of transport. We have unused labour resources, but we have even more unsolved tasks. I allowed myself to say this in the debate in Stortinget on the state budget just before Christmas, as a conclusion to a section of the article that was about how seriously we took the unemployment problem, but where we said that in combating the unemployment problem, we must not lose sight of the fact that the basic problem in the Norwegian economy is the lack of labour. I'm a little surprised that the Workers' Party, which in the past has been more aware than most people of the fact that the basic problem is the lack of labour, now seems to have forgotten this. But I hope that does not mean that the Workers' Party believes that the work for a more inclusive working life should be left for the benefit of a purely short-term job in order to reduce unemployment in the short term. We take the unemployment problem seriously. We are concerned about the development of unemployment. At the moment, I am particularly concerned about the development of unemployment in industry. We have a reduction in employment in the industry at the moment, which is stronger and more worrying than most people have previously assumed. It is very important that, in general economic policy, we do not do anything to sustain that decline and create further increases in industrial unemployment. At the same time, we need to pursue a policy of exploiting the possibilities of using available hands to increase activity in the construction sector and in other areas where it is obvious that it makes sense to use the unemployed in the short term. Then it's important to hold on to a line where the general rule is that people who are unemployed will get help for self-help through active support from Aetat. I am very pleased that there is now a broad uprising about that line of government started well over a year ago by strengthening Aetat and making it a supportive and service establishment for the unemployed. Then we need to constantly adapt the level of action to a level that makes action places not the bottleneck of work to help the unemployed. And then we have to continuously follow both the dimensioning of Aetate and the dimensioning of the level of action. It's a pleasure that there's a great deal of excitement about this. It is also gratifying that, eventually, there may be a slightly weaker tendency to use the unemployed as political caste instead of taking the issue — being unemployed — so seriously that it is not politically enough to create unnecessary increased insecurity for the unemployed. The Labour Party, in relation to measures for the unemployed, has always followed a principle of the type: we propose a little more than the Government, no matter what the Government proposes. When we dealt with the budget in the autumn, the Workers' Party proposed 1000 more action sites than us and about 50 million. kr to Aetat – then it seemed appropriate. The representative Schjøtt-Pedersen said a moment ago that nothing fundamentally new had happened since the budget was presented, so he did not understand why we came up with more action places now. But it is certainly a fact that the Workers' Party is now proposing 4,000 more ordinary places of action than was proposed during the budgetary procedure, so I wonder if the world is changing faster in the heads of the Workers' Party than it is in the heads of the Government. I also wonder whether the purpose of the Workers' Party in this matter is to get the right dimensioning, or whether it is just to indicate that you always follow the Government's arrangements and add to the very little neighbor.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1645	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1648	President! To a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1656	The representative has drawn a line and may take that misunderstanding in the line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1659	Governments say the Labour Party has a slightly larger strike than the Government Party. What happened? We put forward our proposals in December 2002. One month later, after the majority here voted in favour of our proposals, the government will agree with the corresponding proposals. There's no logic in that. The basic problem is labour shortage, said the Council of State. Yes, I can partly agree with that. It also shows that it is important to focus on qualifying measures. It shows that it is important to focus on measures to allow people with various disabilities to take advantage of their residual ability to work. When it comes to industrial workplaces, many traditional industrial workplaces are now permanently lost. Victor D. Norman has previously stated that he promises to strengthen his efforts in this area, and that is good. My question to the Council of State relates to the rules of the permit. There was a certain degree of tightening six months ago, but some groups have exceptions. Will the Council consider extending the exemption rules also for other areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1670	It is unfortunately a fact that very many of the industrial jobs that are now being lost are hardly coming back. At the same time, it's a fact that the biggest bear service we can possibly do for a part of those who are now working in the industry and losing jobs is give them a false impression that they can only wait a while, and they get that job back. The government is not prepared to propose the decoration of the permit rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1675	I can join much of what the Council of State says, but I feel that it is not related. When, on the one hand, we have 100 000 unemployed and the Council of State points out that we are lacking labour, that we are facing major tasks that we need to solve in the future, among other things. in kindergartens, schools, care for the elderly and infrastructure, and the Government and the Council of State, on the other hand, are very busy importing unskilled labour, I don't get it to stick together. Should it not now be a priority to get the people who are unemployed in Norway to work, and in the future to focus on increased labour migration? If you're going to follow the Left's National Meeting and take 10,000 unskilled people into Norway every year, who are going to have social services, which are going to have health services, which are going to have housing and school, and which are going to have infrastructure development, then the economy will be under pressure. It's kind of not related. On the one hand, the Government hangs on a tight budget, while on the other hand it wants labour immigration and increased labour force out into action.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1680	The problem is that, thanks to a tight labour market in Norway for many years, we have had so much stronger wage and cost growth in Norway than in other countries that we have thereby undermined the future of the competitive sector. Now, if we just release the economy to create more jobs in the sheltered sector, where we have a big unmet need, we're going to have a further increase in industrial unemployment. Therefore, we need to mobilise what is available of labour resources to ensure that we can solve all unresolved domestic tasks without further worsening industrial conditions. We don't solve the unemployment problem by making some people who are now out of work, care workers, and by creating even more unemployed people from the industry. We cannot go into that track – that is, we need to mobilise more labour into the Norwegian economy. And we need to mobilise more of the labour that is now in vain.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1685	For every caretaker who ends up in the public sector due to poor pay conditions, there are greater problems in resolving future challenges in that sector. For every person who is outcast and becomes a job-disabled person in the workplace, that increase is 14 pst. This year — because of a tougher and more brutal working life — we have more problems solving the challenges of the future. For every long-term unemployed person, that increase is 41 p.m. In the last year – in the future, we will have more problems making sure that we have enough people in work to do the tasks. There's no doubt that if you look at society today, we're not going to solve some of the public problems. Then we have to do three things: one is to strengthen action areas. So let's do something about that. That's good. The second is that we have to start using the available labour resource. We should also start doing that. The third is to change monetary policy, so that we can actually make sure that we don't kill the industry, as we do now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1692	It does not seem that the representative Holmås has taken inward that one of the reasons we have got this increase in unemployment is a basic wage and cost problem in the Norwegian economy, which has arisen because for many years we have had systematically stronger wage and cost growth in Norway than in the countries with which we compete. If we maintain a pressure in the domestic economy at the level we have traditionally had, that will be the consequence no matter what monetary policy we pursue. We see that the government's policy now leads to interest rates falling at the same level as it was when the government took over Stoltenberg. We have corrected some of the worst distortions in the development of competitiveness. Unfortunately, we have to continue this track – if I may say so – if it is possible to achieve a balanced development in the Norwegian economy, where we both have sufficient industrial employment and at the same time are able to mobilise all the labour we need in order to obtain a large public and private sheltered industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1697	I find it sad that the country has a labour minister who is no longer busy connecting free hands with unresolved tasks. But now I want to challenge the state council at one point. It's a state enterprise called Mesta, the new state road service. Everyone added these days was offered a final package or a pension. 1500 should go away. The strategy is final packages for all over 45 years, pension schemes for all those who have reached 57. It's the opposite of taking care of competence and experience. The Minister of Transport will not comment on this to the media, as it can be seen as the detailed management of a group leadership. What does the Minister of Labour and Administration say, will he do anything?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1706	The regulatory time is now out. The President proposes that we continue this morning's meeting until this line change is over. - That's the connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1711	It is in the absence that you should not go in and review and control the details of what units do. However, in connection with what was formerly called the State Road Service, I would like to remind you that it is not to be asphalted any less in Norway because if the production activities of the State Road Service have been released. This means that for every contract that the State Road Service does not win, there will be someone else who wins it, and in other companies that win the contracts, there will be demand for many of those who will have to become unemployed from the former state road service. Then it is an advantage if they are not initially locked to be in the company they started in? I don't think what's now happening in the former state road service is helping to increase the unemployment rate in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1718	The government has for a long time devalued the labour market situation. The Minister of Finance has stated that the color of his office is more gloomy than the outlook in the labour market, and the Minister of Industry is not particularly concerned about job losses. The government does not take any initiative to ensure vulnerable enterprises in addition to helping them to establish themselves in the Baltic region. In labour market policy, the Government is characterised by: too little, too late. Then it is no wonder that the Workers' Party is constantly proposing more. In October, the Workers' Party then proposed, according to the Government, was irresponsible. In February came the government after. In March the government even proposed to grant more than the government itself had proposed for the Storting, and which was to be treated here. Welcome after, but get up the pace! Otherwise, the Council of State was injured to hear complete errors. I said that the situation is after this, i.e. after this fall, "become even more serious." That's worrying.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1728	If the quality of the quotations about so-called de minimisisation that the representative Schjött-Pedersen now came up with is of the same quality as the previous quotations in the debate on my alleged de minimis assessment of unemployment, it is hardly surprising if you have the impression that it is being devalued. But I hope in that case that the Workers' Party will learn a little better in-service reading, and perhaps even a little better hearing techniques, than what has been illustrated in this debate. In the case of labour market measures, the government has proposed that we ensure that the measures are not a bottleneck in the work of the unemployed at all times. We are concerned that it is the work of the unemployed who are important, not the promotion of unemployment as a good fight for random parties. We do not see any reason to propose increased measures as long as this is not the scarcity factor at work to help the unemployed. That's why we're proposing an increase now, so we didn't propose such a sharp increase in the harvest last year, and that's why we're also going to follow developments very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-10.ana.ud602e1735	It is the President's view that the driftpark in the direction of the characteristics of people's intelligence will hardly be a contribution to raising the level of debates in this House. The morning's meeting is thus cancelled.
