ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e30	I should have actually been with the governor and listened to his date, but I found out that this was more important. And now there's a lot of people in the hall, so it's nice to attend. I have been on the board of the Norwegian Raw Fish Team, so I should not have taken the floor at all. Most people are well aware of what I'm going to say. But one thing that the representatives have to be aware of – and I don't know if everyone is aware of it – is where to put the boundary between breeding and wildly caught cod. Where should the limit go? When do you want to know if it's breeding or wildly caught cod? We who sit in this room, all of us agree that wild caught fish and wild caught cod should be under the Raw Fish Act. The contention and disagreement is the way in which the breeder is to be placed on the market, whether it is to be freely negotiable or whether it is to be placed on the market under the raw fish law. That's what this is all about. And I have to ask those who doubt, where the limit will go in terms of what is wildly caught cod, and what is breeding stork. We're allowed to catch small cod and put it into marde, as it is today, and then we can sell it together with other fish that are under the Raw Fish Act. That's okay, then it's controlled and found in order, and it comes with the statistics. But if it is such that a person takes small cod and rears it and does not sell it through sales teams under the Raw Fish Act, yes, then there will be a completely different regime for that fish. And that's a problem. It is a problem that the representatives have to decide on, and I hope that you are so grown up in the department that you get back to the Stortinge with a message on how to do this. We are facing a problem when we are sending the decision today in the vote on Document No. 8:145 to the ministry and say that one should come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way. Yeah, what's the appropriate way? For my part, I believe that the department must come back to Stortinget with a message. Then we can discuss this in the Chamber, and then we can decide whether or not the raw fish law applies also to cod. That's what this is all about. We have adopted the Law of the Sea in this Chamber. We can send salmon out to sea, and we can send lobsters around the islands, and there's nothing in the way that anyone can acquire a sea area and say it's mine, here I'll raise lobsters, here I'll breed cod, here I'll raise salmon. In reality, we can sell the entire Norwegian economic zone with the inherent resources after what has been adopted in Stortinget. Then one has to be aware that another 3.5 kg of raw fish is needed to get 1 kg of pellets. For once I agree with WWF – otherwise I don't agree much with them, you have to be aware of that in this room. I don't agree with them or with Greenpeace, but I've said that before, and I like to repeat it: it takes 3.5 kg of raw fish to get 1 kg of pellets, and it takes 1 kg of pellets to get 1 kg of salmon. The cod comes into land, it's been out on the seabed, and it costs us nothing. It doesn't cost us 3.5 kg of raw fish to get 1 kg of pellets, I'll say. The cod is out on the seabed, it eats shrimp, it eats lots and it eats cod. It eats everything. It's all corrosive, it's cannibal, to say it that way. And it comes swimming to land, and we don't raise it, but we have to do what the department says. As long as it's a sales team, we have to relate to it. But as soon as the cod is dead, we have to deal with the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Fisheries – i.e. four departments as soon as the fish are dead, because then you are a kennel ring. Then you're a bandit. And the only professional group we've got in the country that's been reported and convicted of misappropriation, that's the fishermen. Because if you're guessing that you have 40 tons off the page and you have 30 tons, yeah, you get 10 tons on withdrawal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e39	I would like to stress that the Government is very concerned about having a fisheries management that works efficiently and well, while at the same time ensuring that we have control over the harvesting of fish resources. However, it is the government’s view that the transfer of the breeding stork through the sale strike system resulting from the raw fish law is not an appropriate instrument in this context. However, choosing a different mode of trade for farmed cod than for wild caught cod is not a signal that we want to weaken the raw fish law. Here is probably also the explanation of what the rapporteur referred to in his statement, namely that the committee hearing has revealed considerable differences in the assessment of the proposal, and it calls for caution and care by the legislators in my opinion. Of course, the government is determined by the fact that the raw fish law is to be passed on as a basis for fisheries policy, as set out in the Sem Declaration. In addition to assessing the possibilities for better facilitating long-term delivery conditions, the Government will not propose fundamental changes to the raw fish law and its system. In this way, I understand that the government parties and the Progress Party, as the representative Solholm explained, have a common view of not extending the scope of the Raw Fish Act. The aim of the Raw Fish Act is to ensure fishermen's landings, good prices and the settlement of their catches. That's the purpose of the law. The system is adapted to the turnover and deliveries of wild caught fish that may have major seasonal fluctuations and, with that, periodic depreciation problems. However, fish farming constitutes an integrated industrial production in which withdrawals — or slaughter — can be directly adapted to demand. Therefore, farming differs greatly from the traditional fisheries that benefit from the trading system of the Raw Fish Act and the purpose of the Raw Fish Act. The cultivation of marine species requires different framework conditions from the first-hand system for the placing on the market of wild fish. This is also reflected in the fact that breeders have so far failed to earn – and therefore do not want – an overall organisation that the sales strike system involves. I also refer to the representative referred to by Kristiansen, namely that the proposal is not sought by industry and creates uncertainty for investors and the farming industry. The last one, in my opinion, is very unfortunate. The development of new farming species is in its infancy. Increased production of these species could have an impact on the systems that regulate the industry today. Therefore, it will be particularly challenging to ensure that wild caught and farmed cod can be traced throughout the value chain, so that both consumers and we as authorities can be sure of the origin of the final product. In this way I perceive that we have a common interest in securing it. In this context, it would be natural to look at the legislation setting out the framework conditions for the industry. In some areas, we are all going on. In the work on new marine resource laws and new aquaculture laws, the boundaries between traditional fisheries and farming will be drawn. The Ministry has also recently asked the Directorate of Fisheries to explain the control challenges we face in the crossroads between wildcatch and farmed cod on the day the breeder has evolved to a significant volume. There is yet a certain time ahead. The presentation by the Directorate-General for Fisheries is part of the mapping work in which the fisheries management will work closely with the aquaculture industry, industry, fishermen’s representatives and the research environment in order to draw a realistic picture of a future that involves large quantities of farmed cod, for that is both the ambition and the desire. This work will form the basis for the necessary modernisation of the legislation and the organisation of the framework conditions for an expansionary farming industry. I can thus confirm that the ministry is already looking at relevant issues that may arise from extensive cod farming. We're not there yet, but we hope to get to that. Then we should also have considered the relevant issues. The main objective of the work is to further develop a forward-looking fisheries management that ensures control of resources, limits or eliminates entirely the possibilities of fraud, while facilitating innovation and new industrial development. But my clear belief and the government's clear belief is that as such, the raw fish law does not help to prevent fraud, if that is the goal of the industry. As has also been pointed out by several of the speakers, we can see that the intention of the raw fish law is quite different from that which has been assigned to it and which has as its objective here. The representative, Arnstad, said that the aim of the proposal was to create a debate. I listen to the debate, and I take with me the views that had to come along.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e62	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e65	I have noticed through the press that representatives of the Christian People's Party have signaled that it is natural that the question we are dealing with today comes back to the Stortinget. I would like to ask if this is a common view of the government parties. Today, when we hear the Council of State and the representative of Kristiansen, I'm in doubt. Are these of a different opinion than the Christian People's Party has expressed in the press? If it is such that the case is requested back to Stortinget, why is the proposal on this particular issue not supported, which is in the vote? Does it mean, as the representative of Kristiansen and the Council of State now say, that the decision that this turnover should be outside the framework of the raw fish law has already been taken? And how is the fishing industry taken on board on this issue? Have they heard in this matter? I interpret the representative of Kristiansen so that he is very much in agreement with the view of the Progress Party on the Raw Fish Act. And I have to ask: does the representative Kristiansen see that the raw fish law is a problem for the fishing industry in its present form, or in total?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e72	Actually, I regret to extend the debate, which is well concluded, but the representative Arnesen asks some interesting questions about the need to get the matter back to Stortinget. This is a Document No. Eight proposals, and I'm going to think that there are opportunities for rematches. We are constantly ignoring the fact that it is being implemented more or less continuously also in Stortinget. I consider this case to have ended here and now. What goes on in the follow-up, control and further development of the farming industry in general, and in particular cod farming, we will still have the opportunity to return to the Stortinget. The political balances in terms of organisation, I think most people will also have the opportunity to come back to it. However, since the word ‘doubt’ was used in the contributions of the representative Arnesen, I cannot see with my best will anything but that the Labour Party must also have several doubts in this matter as to whether the excellence of the raw fish law is what will lift Norwegian cod farming further up and forward, as one has chosen to put it. So you have such strong doubts that you ask a Right-State Council – I understand the need for it – to sit down and discuss this issue for the Workers' Party. If one had taken a round to the operators in the Norwegian breeding industry, in particular to the actors who are now to develop Norwegian cod farming, and asked them for advice, I would think that the unisone council and the unisone feedback that will be given, and which must also have come into her representative Arnesen, is: For everything in the world, not among the raw fish law into this issue. If you read the business idea and the statutes of the raw fish law, you will see that one person is established at a time when the interests of the fisherman on board the boat were primarily to be cared for. It was not suggested that there should be a law that would primarily safeguard the interests of the farming industry. Discussing the excellence of the Raw Fish Act in terms of wild fishing, I will refrain from here and now. We'll probably also have an opportunity to come back to that. I am not a representative who sees it fit to stand and condemn the Raw Fish Act. I'll never do that. But I feel that we are all able to discuss the content, and it should also be lacking that we should not do so when there is time and opportunity for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e83	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 6 and 7 are treated together. [[Fotation, see page 2034]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e111	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e122	The winter has been long and cold, and the power reserves have been low. It has resulted in high electricity prices, yes, sometimes very high electricity prices. The current bills that are now coming are much higher than normal. Many households cope with such an unexpected high bill, but many have problems. Therefore, the Stortinge will adopt this evening are a series of proposals that will help those who have now had problems paying the electricity bill. The measures currently under consideration by the Municipal Committee are both immediate measures and new permanent measures under the housing support scheme. More long-term decisions such as more access to electricity, subsidies for heat pumps, more energy saving measures etc. are addressed in the Energy and Environment Committee and will not be affected. The Labour Party is very pleased that it now appears that we are getting through to almost all of the proposals that we have promoted. That's good. The government's solution to the high current bills that have now arrived was to give an amount of only NOK 700 to the 106 000 households that are eligible for housing support today. That was not much in relation to the promises made by the government councils, among other things. in TV debates. That is why the whole committee now believes that this is far too small and is not in line with the additional increase in current bills that has now arrived. It is therefore gratifying that a joint committee now agrees to cancel this amount from 700 kroner to 2,500 kroner. This means that 73,500 old-age pensioners and disabled persons and 32,500 families with children, essentially, automatically receive a check in the post office around the month, without having to do anything. It's a targeted system, a little bureaucratic, and the money comes out quickly to those who need them. Unfortunately, the agreement of the Committee on the measures of the housing aid scheme is coming to an end here. The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party agree that the income limits, that is, how much you can earn to get housing support, are far too low. The income limit for housing for a family with two adults and one child was in 2002 so that the total family could not earn more than NOK 157 000. Similarly, the limit for a lone parent with one child was 143 600 kroner. By raising these amounts, several families with very low incomes and high housing costs will be included in the scheme. Therefore, a majority consisting of the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre will go in to increase the income limits by NOK 30000 in relation to the limits per. 31 December 2002. It was the same proposal that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre were voted down on in the budget for this year. Now the Progress Party has changed sides, so that it becomes a majority, and nothing is better than that. When the government says that the boundaries have been raised for some from 2002 to 2003, this is a well-kept secret that is not contained in any documents. But now there should be no doubt any more. In relation to last year, the limits shall be increased by NOK 30000 for everyone from this year's 2nd tertiary. According to the Government's estimates, it will provide housing support for approx. 12 000 new families with very low incomes. The Labour Party believes this is a good distribution policy, and it will be of great help to many families with low incomes who have difficulties in paying rent. In a letter to the Committee no more than two months ago, the municipal minister calculated this to cost 180 million. kr on an annual basis, and thus 120 million. kr from 2nd tertiary. It is now granted. It is true, as has been said, that the payment of housing support to these new families will only take place after the summer holidays, but municipalities must be able to deal with such a challenge. Now it's important to get the system in place. The government indicates that the previous arrangement for housing to be financed in the House Bank in order for one to receive housing support, from the turn of the year, has now been terminated for families with children. The Labour Party agrees, but there is still such a requirement for other groups receiving housing support. As it is now, this is a discrimination, and it would be interesting to hear what the Council of State thinks about it. Today, in addition to normal housing support, old-age pensioners, unemployed and survivors' pensioners receive a grant of light and heat according to where they live in their country of residence. It doesn't get the children's families. This is what the Workers' Party believes is unfair. Therefore, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre enter the setting in order that support for light and heat should also be introduced as a permanent scheme for the families of children now. But here the Progress Party is failing. Nevertheless, it is gratifying that the Progress Party supports a proposal to at least support a temporary scheme with support for light and heat also for families with children for the first tertiary this year. It's worth 31.5 million. NOK and can be paid immediately. The Committee recognises that although we are now providing support to large groups and expanding these groups significantly, there will still be many problems with the high current bills that are now falling into the short-term mailboxes. Although many will try to master the increased costs, some will need help through the municipality. This is an exceptional situation, hopefully of temporal demarcation, which has been imposed on them from the outside. In such a situation, an overall committee considers that it is not reasonable to demand to dispose of the car, the cabin, the savings accounts of children, etc. to get help through the municipality. Therefore, the Committee calls on the Minister of Social Affairs, through a circular, to clarify the interpretation of the provisions of the Social Services Act on economic welfare. The Social Services Act provides enough room for such an interpretation today too, but there is reason to believe that the practice is different around the municipalities. Therefore there is a need for clarification through a circular to the municipalities now. However, if we are to have this opportunity that we are asking the municipalities for now, the municipalities must be sure that it is following the money with it. It is strange, therefore, that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, which agree that the Social Minister should send circulars to the municipalities, cannot agree to grant money now, so that there is a willingness from the Storting to give the municipalities this opportunity we are asking for. Because it has to be clear that with the economy that the municipalities have, we can't oblige them to be more liberal towards any groups without it going to harm others. The Workers' Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Center Party believe that this should not be done, and we will be in favour of a grant to the municipalities already now. These parties have different proposals for such adjournment, but will subsidize the Labour Party's proposals of 130 million. kr. A unanimous committee asks the Government in the context of the revised national budget to provide an assessment of how the economic situation of municipalities is affected by the increase in electricity prices, including increased costs of social assistance. Then to the suggestions. For the Workers' Party, it has been very important to have a majority in favour of measures that can help those in need of help now. A joint proposal has been put forward by the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, SV and the Centre to allocate 130 million. kr to municipalities above the discretionary post, and appropriations for housing aid of EUR 151,5 million. kr. This entry amounts to 151.5 million. SEK contains 120 million. NOK to increase the income limit by NOK 30000 and SEK 31,5 million. DKK for the grant of light and heat for the first tertiary in 2003 as a one-off grant to the 32,500 families of children who do not currently receive such a grant. As a consequence, the Labour Party does not take up its minority proposal, proposal No. 1, because this proposal has the same amount of funding for the municipalities as the joint proposal, 130 million. kr. But I take up proposal No. 8 from the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, SV and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e164	The representative has taken up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e169	Why does the Workers' Party repeatedly change its policy, from position to opposition? Why did the Labour Party propose in the 2001 State budget to remove the aid for light and heat from the housing aid when the party two years later felt that this scheme was very important? Is it because the party is moving towards becoming a populist party? Why did the Labour Party in the 2002 State Budget propose a reduction in housing aid for all outside the four largest cities, when one year after they said that housing aid is a rigorous scheme that needs to be increased for all? Is it because the Workers' Party has become a populist party? And how does it relate to the fact that the Workers' Party warned, yes, vigorously fighting costs that were not included in the budget, when the party one and a half years later is pushing to increase the government's spending by half a billion dollars outside the budget? Is it because the Workers' Party has become a populist party?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e178	No, the Labour Party is not a populist party. We are pursuing an economic policy that we can stand for. Our draft budget was in line with, or perhaps even tighter than, the Government's, which was adopted here in the Storting. We conduct a targeted economic policy, and we believe that housing support schemes are targeted measures. We believe that if we're going to give something to someone, this has to be targeted, so that those who need it get it. There is a completely different policy than the Right-leader, where tax laws are at the top of the menu. We believe that the measures of the housing aid scheme for which we now receive a majority are the same arrangements for which we entered into the 2003 budget. Then, unfortunately, we didn't get a majority for them. Now we're happy that we can get this through. In the case of the half-billion, the Workers' Party will cover this in the revised national budget. Now it's about giving 130 million. kr to the municipalities. In our 2003 alternative budget, the allocation to the municipalities was NOK 3 billion more than the government proposed. I believe that it is now unreasonable to claim that we have not intended to locate the means that we are now going in to grant.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e187	The representative Eye said in his statement at one point that the Progress Party failed. The party of progress failed! In my opinion, the Progress Party has moved quite considerably in these matters simply to take responsibility for all the people who have fallen into disrepute because of the policy pursued by the Workers' Party over decades. The Labour Party has made clients of a lot of people in this country, and now we are facing a situation where we have to somehow return the money. It's sad. The representative Eye was also in his reply rather than that the Workers' Party had so much more money for the municipalities in its alternative budget. I registered that the representative Eye mentioned NOK 3 billion more to the municipalities. Today, therefore, there is a proposal from the Progress Party for a supplementary allocation for the municipalities of 500 million. kr, and that is in favour of the Workers' Party. I actually think, like the previous replicator, that the Workers' Party is now moving far into the populists' ranks. For over a year now, they have been alarming about more money for the local government sector. It is no more than a week ago that the Workers' Party was strongly involved in relation to the lack of funds by the municipalities. Here, the Workers' Party has the opportunity to give more money to the municipalities, but they say no. Is it that the Labour Party is very concerned with budgetary rigour, which means that they will not now be with the Advance Party to grant 500 million dollars to the municipalities? Or is it simply populism that happens, that they only speak in large words when it suits themselves? And in relation to the representative Eye said instead: Where does the revised Workers' Party want to cover up the half billion they're behind today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e196	Yes, the Workers' Party believes that the Advance Party, although they should also get a lot of praise for this setting, has failed in one area. The introduction of a permanent scheme to support lighting and heating for families with children. Clearly, it is unfair that families with children should not be given the same opportunity to receive such support as pensioners and disabled people. But we are pleased that the Progress Party is involved in increasing the income limit of the housing aid scheme by NOK 30 000, and that we are also now able to introduce a grant to light and heat for the first tertiary. But that's a little bit. So the representative Sandberg says that it's populism to grant money to the municipalities now. But then I would like to remind you that it is the Progress Party that, without knowing much about how the need will be in the municipalities, will now grant 500 million. kr. We mean it's 'thinking of a number'. So we're adding 130 million. Now, while we're asking for the Council of State to come back in revision with a more exact number, in line with what it needs, because I don't think either of us per. Date knows how much the municipalities will have to provide in extra social assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e203	SV is very happy that the Workers' Party is now listening to how people are doing when the power bill is getting very high. I notice that someone thinks it's populism. I see it as taking people seriously, and that the Workers' Party is far more responsive to people who have problems now than they were a short time ago. I think that is positive and deserves commendation. There is no doubt that what is now happening is part of the 'big' policy. Both the energy market regime and the increase in societal disparities are reasons why we now find that electricity prices are fluctuating and, in part, becoming very high. There are a lot of people who have very bad advice and can't make a bill that's a couple of thousand times higher than what it uses to be. Then I heard that the representative Eye in his post was very concerned that we were now going to find targeted measures. I agree with that, in this acute situation. But do the Labour Party and the representative Signe Eye agree with the Swedish Government that this requires a strong change of direction, both in terms of energy policy and in terms of fairer distribution, so that differences between people become smaller? Then we'll both get a power regime where people don't become so dependent on electricity for heating and can be safer on what the bill looks like, and we'll get fewer who get so bad advice that they don't tolerate any fluctuations in this area. I want to challenge the Workers' Party a little, so that – to put it that way – you don't end up in the right-wing policy that says that you have to let the market run the most, and that you have to go in for a tax-free policy, and then you have to have a targeted policy, that is, a kind of charity policy, towards those who get it difficult. There is a deep disagreement, and we hope that the Workers' Party agrees with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e212	The Working Party and SV may agree on many areas of this setting. I believe that the Labour Party takes people seriously and is responsive. I point out that we have now come up with several measures that will make it easier to handle the high electricity bills. We also believe that there are far too many differences in this society, and that we need to have a fairer distribution. This may include, inter alia: is done through fiscal policy. We believe that we should give tax relief, it is important that we give priority to those who earn least. As far as energy policy is concerned, the Workers' Party and the SV do not agree in all areas. We believe that we should have savings measures and that we should use alternative energy. But we also believe that we should get more power on the market. It would probably have given a different price to the current that we now have to buy from, among other things. Germany. It might be a paradox that we are now purchasing coal power from Germany and accepting it, but if we are talking about building CO2 gas plants in Norway, it is not acceptable. I am pleased that the Working Party and SV in very many areas of this setting agree. I think we've managed to make a promise, not just in a stressed situation, but a promise that's going to be noticed for those who in the foreseeable future will have the worst.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e225	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e229	I think we in this room can very quickly agree that the prices of electricity have reached unfamiliar heights lately. Furthermore, we fully agree that there are now many households in this country who have and will have problems paying the high electricity bills. Of course, this applies especially to households with low incomes. In order to meet this acute situation quickly, the Government has proposed to pay a lump sum through the housing aid to the 106 000 households currently covered by the housing aid scheme with very low incomes. So one important point here is that it is proposed to increase the subsidy to the 73 000 households that have already received support for light and heat through the housing aid, and to extend it to the 32 500 households that are currently not eligible for such support. This will mainly apply to families with very low incomes. Like a unanimous municipal committee, I agree with the Government that an extension of the scheme must be made simple, so that those with the greatest need for grants get quick help in paying the electricity bill. In addition, we are concerned about finding schemes that are as accurate as possible without establishing new bureaucratic structures. Then there will also be a possibility of payments, as the Government has promised, already around the turn of the month of February/March, so that they most need this hand bill, now that they need it the most. On the right-hand side, we agree that NOK 2 500 for all housing beneficiaries will be a significant contribution to very many of the households most affected by high electricity prices. This is an effective measure for those with the combination of low incomes and high housing costs. This scheme, which is a proposal for a decision in the Stortinget meeting, will have a total cost of 265 million. NOK, or SEK 190 million. kr more than what was in the Government's original proposal. Furthermore, the Committee has gathered to ask the Government through circulars to encourage municipalities to demonstrate the flexibility provided by the Social Services Act. This could result in slightly higher social costs for municipalities, although many households are now receiving good help through the one-off grant of housing aid. The overall impact of this will only be seen later in the spring, and the natural opportunity to look at this will be through the treatment of the revised national budget. Furthermore, there may be reason to stress the point that during the year the Government will also provide a more comprehensive review of the housing policy, ordered by the Stortinget. In this housing message, among other things: the focus is on housing support, and there are very good reasons to discuss more fundamental changes in both structures and rates in that context. The discussion will now focus on the extent of the emergency aid. From the government parties' fraction in the municipal committee, the recommendation to the Stortinget is quite clear. We agree with the proposal to grant NOK 2 500 to the 106 000 households that receive housing support, and that is a help that will be in the account in a few days' time. Then it is our wish that, in the context of the treatment of the revised national budget, we have the opportunity to assess the facility and, if necessary, the scope of further measures to remedy the impact of a slightly cold and exceptionally low-power winter. Many municipalities have tough financial conditions for the time being, and it would be desirable to have the most discretion to assess how the shoe prints the most in the spring when it is time for the revised budget. For government parties, this means that we will vote in favour of the Committee's suspension, with the exception of the proposal for an increase in the estimate for housing aid under Chapter 580, heading 70.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e248	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e251	A multiple, all minus the government party, is proposing today to allow 130 million. kr to the local government sector, and has a rather binding note to support the local economy in the revised national budget. The parties to the Government's representatives in the Committee are proposing zero in this round and, in my view, have an unobligatory comment on the financial situation in the local government sector. But I'm glad that Right also thinks that the municipalities have to show the flexibility that the law of social services allows. Now it's also so that the increase in the power price is probably the most noticeable in April. Then there is every reason to believe that municipalities need to set up even more for those with a low income base. My question to the representative Hogsnes is: does the representative Hogsnes see that this situation can be dramatic for the local government sector through estimated large payments in connection with social assistance? And can I perceive the representative so that the Right will be willing to compensate for documented additional costs for the municipalities in full, or is it such that the representative Hogsnes is not sure whether the municipalities will receive additional costs as a result of these social benefits? I'm a little uncertain about that, as I noticed that the representative Hogsnes said that the municipalities will have a slightly higher cost of social assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e258	As I tried to make clear in my post, I think today we see the outlines that municipalities will have additional expenses. How much is going to be involved, and to what extent individual municipalities will be involved in this issue, remains to be seen, and we are open to see this in the context of the revised budget. We want that freedom of action, to see where the shoe prints the most: is this where we are going to use the resources, or will there be other areas where we should review the budget more? I think we can discuss far in the evening the outlook for the local economy. Our point is that we think it's wrong to commit ourselves now, if we're talking about 500 million. NOK 300 million. SEK or 130 million. kr. What we are asking for is a freedom to see this in a more complete context when we come to the revised national budget. What if the situation is dramatic? Yes, somewhere it can shine dramatically. Reports from elsewhere indicate that the situation is well controlled. This we'll get a better whole in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e266	Right likes to say that they're the most concerned of the individual, and that you have to focus on it. In this case, it has probably almost never been given promises to the individuals before. I'm standing here with a sheet in front of me, where I've written out what the different parties have said on TV about the case. For example, Jan Petersen, who is the leader in the Right, says that we need to help those who really need it, through what the Government is now proposing, and through individual help in the social office. I believe that should be an assurance to the individual that they actually received help. But it is a reality that what the Government proposed, in no way secured it, either through the housing system or through the social offices. After all, once the government parties have joined the proposal that municipalities have to have some exceptional interpretations of the Social Health Act, it is a recognition that it was actually necessary to meet individual needs. But what we also know is that the local government sector has little money, and to the extent that they don't have money and don't get clear information that they also get it, the municipalities will have to understand this very strictly. Does not the representative Hogsnes see that by being so restrained towards the municipalities by giving them a signal now that there is more money, he helps prevent the help that his party leader has also been on TV and promised the individual who is having problems with the electricity bill, and that it will be difficult to fulfill this promise without ensuring that those who are to pay out this social assistance actually have some money to pay with?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e273	I do not agree with the conclusion that Mr Andersen is now drawing. I'm going to say that we from government are very individual-oriented. That's what this is about, how the individual person both experiences the situation and manages to master the situation. Then I think it's important to be clear that we're talking here about giving a hand-held help to those who need it the most. It has to happen quickly, and it has to be unbureaucratic. That means we have to stick to the promise that payments will come to the defined groups as early as the month of February/March. Then we will ensure help for those who need the most. Then there is access to see this in a holistic way, to see how the municipal economy is developing in total. Those who are now ready to draw completely blatant conclusions and drop it in completely concrete numbers already now, I'd say are bold. We choose to ask for access to look at this in full when we review it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e280	It might be tempting to ask Hans Kristian Hogsnes if he can find any other example that one by exploits in Stortinget might believe that 700 kroner, as the government has suggested in its proposition, ranged so far. I'll leave it, because it has the government part in Stortinget realised: 700 kroner is too small, and they set up their multi-annual amount of NOK 2 500. That's good. But then there's something surprising about what Hans Kristian Hogsnes says today when it's about the local authorities' situation. He says that municipalities can get higher social expenditure. But he's not busy with how the municipalities handle this, he's busy having the government party open to have free trade in the revised budget. He has experience as a spokesman. Does he believe that the spokespersons can relate to an assessment to be made in the revised budget, without being told at all that there will be money, in the circular that is now to be sent out? I think it's alarming that a former dictionary doesn't realize when we're asking for a clarification, which the government's party is also involved in, and so we know that the municipalities have to pay extra money, that we have to be prepared with money. The amount doesn't know anyone, but what's getting multiples today is at least a signal that this is where the Storting sets up, where we're not just pushing the problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e289	I think it's in what I said in my post, and in that realization that there's a broad majority in this room to give $2,500 to each of the housing beneficiaries, that we seem 700 kroner were scarcely made in this situation. That's why we're willing to take that responsibility here in the hall. But as much as I trust that later in the year this hall will want to see the economic situation in a whole, I trust, with my knowledge of Kommune-Norway, that the municipalities also want some of this freedom. I think the few local authorities today are able to say exactly what this situation will be like in six months, and how much counts we're talking about here. I trust the local authorities' ability to house keepers, and I have a long experience that most municipalities in this country are very good at knowing what is best for their citizens, and are able to give priority to those who need the extra hand bill that can come up with when the situation is extraordinary. So the answer to the question is that the freedom I'm asking for for the Storting, I think it actually also the Municipality-Norway wants. They know that the Storting will set up if the situation is extraordinary, but I don't think anyone today can say with certainty the scope of it. That is the discussion we are asking for during the examination of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e296	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e299	I think this debate and the matter are a testimony that not everything is so good in this country. We have been introduced that Norway is the world's best country to live in. Two days ago we received a report that no country in Europe had so much poverty among children. I think some of the debate here can also be reflected on. Because it's a little sad that the Storting has to have such debates and make such appropriations because we've pushed the economy to people in this country so hard that they can't face unforeseen economic challenges. The basic reason for this is that over the decades we have built up such a high, very broad tax and tax regime, which is so insolvent to those who have the least. But when we try to create a debate on tax policy, we talk about skinning the rich. The debate on fiscal policy needs to be turned in a different direction. That is why the Progress Party has also put forward a proposal in relation to fiscal policy, which I hope, at least, that the government parties will be able to support. Now let's look at the impact of tax policy on those who have the least. Because there's no doubt that what we're seeing today, that there are now almost 200,000 people, and perhaps more, who need to get a handshake from the Storting to get through their everyday lives, is the result of the majority in this room creating an energy regime that has made electricity prices very high. I have listened with interest to both the SV and the Central Party in this debate over the days that have passed. The SV and the Senterpartie were to rejoice that we have high power prices. They've got their will. The center part and SV have wanted high power prices, and now they have got it. And then the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are trying to call it a distribution policy. This has nothing to do with distribution policy. This is the result of a misguided distribution policy. All in all, for 10 to 20 years, the way we are going to be able to fill up the Norwegian state treasury is most likely at the expense of people. That is why the Progress Party cannot stand and witness the situation that has arisen. And then you have to say that the Progress Party is acting populist. If it's populist to take responsibility for the majority in this room having made sure that people have come up in a riot, yes, I'd like to be a populist. Because that's what this is all about. Then, of course, I would also like to point out that the Progress Party had a proposal that was rejected by this House, a proposal that we proposed to remove VAT and tax on electricity for six months. It had reached all of them. Then we wouldn't have to have any discussion about whether we're reaching all those who are having problems with the high power bills. That proposal would probably cost between 3 and 4 billion dollars. But it is also not a problem to detect it, because figures show, no matter what the department and government had to come up with from impact assessments, that because of the high electricity prices, the state gets a severe increase in revenue. Only by itself is it a paradox that the state has to make a huge profit at high power prices, people have increased expenses that they don't do, and then we have to stand here today and give alms to the Norwegian people. I am calling for a broader debate on how the wrong policy has now struck the poor Norwegian people for decades. Only the fact that people can be characterised as poor when they make $200,000 a year in Norway is ridiculous to me, but that's what it's been like. Of course, it should be such that you could feed yourself and your family with a income of 200,000–250 000 kroner. Unfortunately, this is no longer the case. So the Advance Party has been willing to join a one-off payment of NOK 2 500. We have our own proposal of NOK 3 500, which I record is that we are not receiving any support at all, even though studies show that NOK 2 500 in close proximity to the ‘trafficking’ that people receive, through the current bill they now receive. We're also proposing 500 million. kr to the community sector through the discretionary means, because we think it will be most accurate in this context. It is to signal – as has also been said earlier here today – that it is not useful to instruct social services and municipalities to pay the electricity bill for people, without the municipalities knowing whether they have money available. And we're going to do that now. But I refer you to the joint motion, proposal No. 8, where, in relation to our own proposals, which are likely to fall, we will have a one-off allocation of 130 million. kr to the municipal sector, as well as that we are involved in a temporary extension of the template of light and heat. In conclusion, I would like to promote the proposals made by the Progress Party at INS no. 126, but I note that in proposal No. 6 entry 70 shall be deleted because it is part of the joint proposal, point. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e318	Per Sandberg has addressed the proposals to which he referred and corrected proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e323	The party of progress will not be able to provide families with a permanent system of support for light and heat, as the age and disability pensioners have. Now the representative Sandberg says that there is not a single country in Europe that has as much poverty among children as Norway has. But why is the Progress Party not in favour of this proposal, because it is quite focused on families with children? This would give great opportunities for this particular group and be a significant handshake. Then the Progress Party is always talking about tax relief. But the Progress Party knows that when you talk about tax relief, it's a thousand copies to those who make very little, while there's ten thousand, and even more, it's in the hundreds of thousands of people who make a lot of money. It's a little targeted scheme to help the group that the Sandberg representative was now so concerned about. And if the Progress Party is concerned that there is poverty in Norway and that there are some who are in a bad state, why does the Progress Party reduce the daily allowance for the unemployed, as they did in December? Isn't it a group that you should worry about? The Progress Party is talking about they're so busy having a little bureaucracy, and everything is going to be easy to handle, but when the Advance Party is going to grant money, as we see today, the discretion grant is the best way, they think, to grant this money. I think it's a bureaucratic system, and that it should have been granted through the community grant. It shows that the party does not have agreement between words and actions – or what does the representative mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e332	I registered that the representative Eye had to look for a long time to find words and arguments to identify the undersigned. In terms of the permanent arrangement for light and heat, we've said that we're joining one tertiary. Because, as I said before, we're getting a housing report. If we are going to incorporate some new arrangements that are to be made permanent, the Progress Party wants to take this into account in a broader assessment. But we're in one third. It is also interesting, given that the representative Eye was challenged earlier today, that the Workers' Party itself has a desire to remove the whole scheme. Then it's strange that the representative Eye is standing here to defend it. It's a paradox. The Labour Party is attacking the Advance Party because we do not want to make the arrangement permanent, and then they want to remove it themselves. Ridiculous! We would like to take the debate, and we would like to take the debate on the unemployed, but the Progress Party is therefore more concerned with getting the peoples whom the Workers' Party has thrown into unemployment, working, than keeping them on measures and on leave. And that's the policy that's gone wrong. The Labour Party's policy has made sure that most people go out to work, and then we have to get them to work. It's the Progress Party busy. You have to say that when you put money in the discretionary allowance, it becomes a bureaucracy, but that bureaucracy exists. That's it. And then we have to employ the bureaucracy that's there. The system is there, and then it should not be so difficult to use it either, when they get the money to work with. And in relation to tax bills: I don't know what numbers the representative Eye is aiming for, but in relation to the alternative budget of the Advance Party, there are several thousand dollars in tax bills for those who earn the least. There we talk about tens of thousands of dollars in tax relief for those who earn the least. And if we had done just parts of it, we would actually not have had the discussion we have here today, that people who have the least, can't pay their electricity bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e345	The Progress Party has its own economic models and contexts. This time, the Progress Party has long talked about the state's huge extra revenue as a result of increased electricity prices. And the party's proposal to spend this money has been stalled. As a truth witness, the Progress Party has used Techno Consult AS. At the same time, the Progress Party knows that the Ministry of Finance has estimated the net impact of its increased revenues as a result of increased electricity prices to zero. Does the Progress Party agree with Techno Consult's estimates of DKK 11 billion in increased state revenues? And it means something to the Progress Party that the forecasts for total tax revenue for 2003 are 3–4 billion kroner less, and for value added tax approx. Two billion dollars less than estimated? Or is it enough for the party that a small sector might have opportunities for increased revenues this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e350	It will be just as difficult for me as it will be for the representatives of the government parties to provide estimates of increased or lost revenue for the state in the current year. But the fact that there can be reference to loss of income in areas other than electricity is a new argument from the government parties to get ashore in relation to what they have said before. Yeah, I'm stuck with what I said. I don't want to estimate any number, but what we're referring to in the notes is 11 billion kroner. So it's possible that it could be $10 billion. It could be $7 billion. But the point is that the proposals that the Progress Party has put on the table will cost NOK 1 billion in total. I don't think I'm taking my mouth too full when I say that the increased income the government will receive on the current prices of the current year, will pass NOK 1 billion during the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e357	I saw a FrP who had a folder, and on the outside of that folder there was a sticker. That sticker said one word, which was the FrP slogan. ‘Security’ it said. ‘Security’ tried to sell the Advance Party as its slogan. Then they're going into the majority here on the Storting for the energy policy that has led to us getting into the situation we're in now, with very high electricity prices this year. But who introduced the power regime that makes power prices fluctuate more than ever? Yes, it was the Progress Party. The liberalised energy market, and that does not lead to security for people. This leads to more uncertainty. The market scatters those people who can't afford to pay for themselves. The market is gliding out poor families of children. There are several poor people, and the Progress Party should start thinking about how we can do something about it. If we're going to do something about it, it's for example. by adopting proposals for free schooling for children. These are proposals that ensure that we have a stable energy price. There are proposals to ensure that transfers to the school leisure system are not cut, but do it free of charge. Then it's important to remember that the Progress Party has undergone the change in the power market that has led to the current prices we have today, while at the same time helping to provide the majority for the last two years' budgets together with the Government. Per Sandberg can't come here and pretend that the responsibility is on anyone else. I want to ask Sandberg a final question. Sandberg says that he will not agree to anything more than a temporary arrangement to ensure that families with children, whom he was so busy about, would be able to cover their electricity costs. But can Per Sandberg give me one good reason why children's families should be the only group that doesn't get such a type of supplement, when everyone crazy and old gets it?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e366	The truth is that the Advance Party gives a lot more in donations to the families of children. We're going to get 500 million. kr to the municipal sector which can be paid through social services in each municipality to families with children and others who had to receive electricity bills that they did not do. 500 million. So SV wants to vote against, after what I have registered. That's not going to be part of it. What about the power prices is interesting, and I'm going to honestly admit that the Progress Party was the party that was at the forefront of liberalizing the energy market, and that was a success. It was a success! Prices went down. People got a lower price. But what has been done in retrospect is the party of Holmås and others. They haven't provided enough power to supplement it. SV has said no to any energy expansion. They're only talking about alternative energy sources, and it's OK. But it's not okay today. Still, there is a lack of power, and regardless of alternative sources, we never manage to maintain enough power production in relation to demand. So the price has gone up, as it has now. It's a paradox, but I have no problem dealing with it, and the Progress Party is proud to have liberalised the power market. If we are now more developed in Norway, in the form of wind turbines, but also in the form of gas power, we will have more power generation, and then prices will automatically fall again. Here SV is the largest barrier, and as I said in my main post, SV and Holmås should have cheered today, when we have received the high power prices they have wanted for 20 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e373	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e376	We promoted one of the proposals that is being discussed here, which is to make sure that we did something about the crisis on the electricity market, which would help people. The next day, the government came with 700 kroner to 106 000 people. But we were the ones who made sure to start the debate that we now have here in Stortinget. Deregulation of the energy market will lead to greater instability in the energy market and greater fluctuations in the electricity price. This is actually not a post-clock from an SV. This is the wisdom of the SV, and in and of the workers' party people, too, in the debate 12 years ago when the new, now old, law was created. The new law has hampered the investment in environmentally friendly energy sources. We have wanted a stable, slightly higher price, but this energy market has created insecurity for people. Too many have said, and the minister is probably going to say it, and Per Sandberg said it: A free and liberalized power market has given cheaper power over the last few years. It gives cheaper current in the long term, it's claimed. But people don't live in the long run. People are living now. With a liberalized power market, people experience that prices are rising to heights that we've never experienced before. People don't realize that this is a trick, and neither is it. This can still be the story of a government running from its promises as fast as they could. But we in SV are not going to let them die in sin, because when the power prices reached the top, the government parties stood on the television and said, "No one should be afraid not to get help – you get trouble paying the power, go to the social offices." Apart from the fact that it has to be obvious to everyone, to the government as well, that there is something wrong with a power market that sends people to social offices, the story after that has been quite embarrassing. NOK 700 had the Government of 106 000 housing beneficiaries. It's puzzled, for people who wouldn't get housing dropped out of the way. We've thought that everyone had to keep the promises that were promised, because if we don't keep the promises all of us, we're all sitting on the Storting, and we're completely destroying our credibility. The problem is that housing does not go to all those who need it. It does not go to lonely without children, not to families without children. In addition, 32 500 families with children have not been covered by electricity, because the template is reserved for old and disabled people. In addition, there are many families with children who make too much money, so that they do not come under the housing support scheme, as the Workers' Party mentioned. These must go to the social office. In the social office there is no extra money for them, because there are strict rules. The government had nothing for these families, not the Workers' Party either when they brought their headlines in the media. But we've fought for families of children to get under the template. That's why we're happy to have a majority to get the 31.5 million. The heads of the first term that comes now, and we'll ask the government consider making that arrangement permanent. We have made it clear to the local government that they must be liberal and help more people than they have now in the social offices. People shouldn't have to take their kids' savings to pay the electricity bill. We are pleased that we have got the Government involved in this, but they have to send money. We are pleased that we have managed to obtain a majority in order for the municipalities to have more money to cover the electricity costs, but it has to go quickly. We think that's $130 million. kr is too small, and we think it is being distributed in a too bureaucratic way, when this takes the way through the discretionary means and not directly to the municipalities, as we would like. We are pleased that we can agree to provide 12,000 new families with housing support as a permanent solution from now on and beyond. Then we'll see if that's enough. If it isn't, it shouldn't be on us to get the money needed to patch up the system that the Progress Party, the Center Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party introduced in 1991, and that we now see the consequences of. So one thing at a time. During this process, I have realized that the Progress Party is more concerned with playing politics than with putting in place political solutions that can help people, because there is no doubt that the system that we are now going into, by giving money through discretion, gives more bureaucracy than the solution that we and the other parties would have. They were not willing to secure the majority of the solution that we chose, yet this would give more money to the municipalities quickly and in an efficient, stable and secure way, which would allow the municipalities to help people now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e391	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e394	All the parties here on the Stortinget take the extraordinary power situation so seriously that tonight we will grant $2,500 extraordinary to the most disadvantaged households. That's good. It is also good that the housing support system is accurate. On the right, we will also clarify that the 2003 government budget, in addition to this one-off grant, has two new schemes that facilitate the situation of households with a weak economy. Firstly, the income limits for the grant of housing aid are raised by up to NOK 16 300. Secondly, the housing aid scheme has been extended, and 5000 new families of children will receive housing aid of around NOK 7 700 per year. term. These are also measures that work and are predictable and that help those who need it the most. But SV has in a number of contexts spoken against low power prices. Very well known SV really wants more expensive current, because SV has argued in different contexts for a higher power price. One example is that in the budget-inner. S. No 1 from the autumn of 2001 is part of the Swedish tax system that environmental taxes such as the CO2 tax and the electricity tax are increased. If SV wants marked higher electricity charge and electricity price, is SV's concern about electricity prices populism in an extreme situation? Or to ask in another way: how much higher power is actually acceptable for SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e402	It's true that we suggested higher power prices. We suggested that we increase the electricity charge by 1 cent per cent. kilowatt-hour in the budget we're in now. This would give us 680 million. kr on an annual basis, but for the ordinary electricity customer who has a power consumption of approximately 2000 000 kilowatt-hours, it would amount to NOK 200 per year. If you look at people around, they're struggling with power prices that are much, much higher than that. The whole point of this power debate is that we have been, for environmental reasons, a supporter of getting up the prices of electricity. We've wanted the power price higher than what it's been in the last few years. It is precisely to make it profitable to extract environmentally friendly energy – to make it more profitable to invest in the use of alternative energy sources that are currently not on the road. And to do that, you need a higher and more stable price. But the point is the last thing I'm saying: stable price. When you know what you have to pay, it's much easier to plan. What has happened this winter is quite extraordinary, that people have doubled their electricity prices compared to last year. The exact same is true for me, in the apartment I live in. I used less power this year than last year, and yet I pay about twice the electricity bill I had last year. It has never been SV's opinion that people would pay twice the power price and get the power price as a shock in the middle of the cry. The responsibility for that happening is in fact the Right must take, along with the other parties that formed a majority for the change in the energy market that occurred at the beginning of the 1990s.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e409	I must say it becomes extremely strange when the representative Holmås from this pulpit almost blames the Progress Party for the power prices with which several have had problems this winter. If there's any party in this room that has to take its share of the blame for the high power prices we've had, it's just SV. On the other hand, for a number of years the Progress Party has warned against the imbalance that has gradually arisen in the Norwegian energy market. Now this debate is not going to be an energy policy debate, but we cannot turn it down that the market has not been able to function as intended by the Energy Act in 1991 and 1992. It has not been possible to expand new capacity, and there has been a huge imbalance in the Norwegian energy market. We've seen how evolution has been, and we could have reacted before. The party warned against this imbalance, but no one would listen to the party. And then we have SV, which has repeatedly opposed any increase in capacity, which has been against gas power, and which has been on top of it all at all times to make the power prices maximally high by raising, among other things. the electricity charge. The party proposed to remove the electricity tax from 1 January to 30 April and to remove the VAT. It would have been something that could have really helped a wide range of the Norwegian people in terms of the electricity prices we've had lately. I would like to ask the representative from SV: What will SV do to ensure that we do not have these problems with high electricity prices year after year? That's the problem. We can't deal with urgent situations like this every year here at Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e424	Torbjørn Andersen mentioned in his post that we have had an impact on our policy, and now we see the results. But seriously, our problem is that to this day we have not been able to make an impact on our policies. We have not been able to support people's ability to invest in environmentally friendly energy and recyclable energy. Today we have a majority for the use of pellets, that people will receive support to buy pellet stoves, which too many would contribute to making the house less dependent on electricity when it warms up. We haven't had an impact on a large-scale investment in alternative energy, which would give more power to the power market and help people switch to power saving in their own homes using other energy sources to heat the house. Norway is the country in the world that uses electricity most for the heating of houses, and our proposals have always gone to find environmentally friendly alternatives to power, while at the same time making people less dependent on electricity to heat up their house. And then we've been for a two-price system. We've been for a two-price system on power to make it cheap for those who need it, and more expensive power for those who waste energy or use a lot of energy, and who would have been able to afford to invest in other power saving systems. Torbjørn Andersen has had an impact on gas power plants. Gas power plants are possible to build for those who want to. But what's the matter? It doesn't pay for them. The construction of gas power plants is not worthwhile. So instead of twisting your head around to make sure to get the most out of the time that comes, Torbjørn Andersen should be involved in our proposal to provide more power in a more environmentally friendly way, and thus solve the problem for people.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e435	Some of the references to other representatives should perhaps have been worded in a different way in order to be able to do so in a large hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e438	It happens that the representative Heikki Holmås will be the paradoxes' speeches. On the one hand, one might say that environmental considerations make it OK with high power prices, but on the other hand, if the market gives a high power price, it's wrong. Is there any difference between a high price based on environmental considerations and a market-driven high price? For the power customers, for us as consumers, for the more difficult ones, I find it difficult to see that there is a difference. And then to the question of stable price. What does it help people that the price is stable, when it's stable high? I know that I could rather imagine a power price which, on an annual basis, over a period of time, was the lowest possible. It means little that one month or one quarter has a lower price, with the representative Holmås’ market regulation, rather than getting a stable high price. After all, it's all the high price that makes it difficult for people, and not a low price over a long period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e445	The Peter Gitmark Market Tab will certainly agree with me when I say that if you have a slightly higher marginal price on electricity, it will obviously enable people who are betting on alternative energy to get on the road with alternative energy sources. That's one of the points of making sure a slightly higher price on the margin. But then the distribution piece comes in, of which we are followers, namely to create a two-price system that makes it cheap for people to use some energy, but expensive for those who heat up the driveway to the cabin and the garage on Hafjell with electricity, which should actually go to those who need it the most. You think I should pay for it. I understand that the representative Peter Gitmark is not concerned about the fluctuations in the electricity price, but he makes NOK 600,000 a year. It doesn't do ordinary people. Ordinary people worry about big fluctuations in the power price, because it creates instability. Can I afford to celebrate Christmas with my kids this year, or will the electricity price rise this year as last year? Obviously, people are asking themselves that question. And what we want is to have a stable power market with stable prices, which makes it predictable for people to make investments in environmentally friendly solutions, and then we'll have a two-price system that makes it expensive for those who waste, and cheap for those who use the required power. And we've got a majority for such an investigation. And it was embarrassing in time, because we've been trying to get through it for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e452	Wait a minute! There are two things: first, it has to be possible to be a little careful with the use of words. I think the term 'pinadø' to illustrate what you mean does not belong here. Secondly, the President wonders whether the proposals put forward by SV should be promoted or abandoned.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e457	Yeah, the word "pinadø" might have been stupid. But I would like to promote the proposals in a real way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e462	The President shall not comment on whether it was stupid or not. So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e467	Previous speeches are at least right in one thing: that there's an extraordinary situation we're up in. It is right that the market does not solve all problems, but the market works. That's exactly why we have high prices. Competition has been a part of giving us low prices for a long time. When there's a shortage of energy, we get high prices. But we must not leave everything to this market. That's why what we're dealing with today's extraordinary situation, and that's why the Storting will also be discussing these issues in the time to come. Since the rise in electricity prices, the Christian People's Party has aimed that people in this country would not have to freeze as a result of high electricity prices. It would be unworthy in the world's richest country. On this basis, we have gone out and said that people who for economic reasons will not be able to pay the electricity bill will get help. We're standing by. We believe, however, that it is of great importance that the aid comes now. It's in these days the current bills are due to be paid. That's why we have to bet on a solution that requires minimal red tape, and money out to people who need it, immediately. Introducing measures to be effective for the autumn, as part of the opposition's proposal, is useless. We in the Christian People's Party are therefore very pleased that a unanimous growth seems to accumulate about a one-off payment of NOK 2 500 for the 106 000 households that are currently receiving housing support. In our opinion, this payment has a social profile that is very accurate because it targets those who have the combination of low incomes and high housing costs. This is a boost for those who are struggling economically, and it comes in addition to other measures the Government has taken in the fight against poverty. That the opposition will even go beyond us is joyous, but new tactics from parts of that edge. We know that the differences in Norway increased during the last working party governments. There is therefore reason to wonder why it is in the opposition and not in the position of these questions becomes important for the Workers' Party. The Christian People's Party would point out that the proposal of NOK 2 500 for housing beneficiaries requires minimal administrative costs, as the aid is paid through the Husbank to those already registered in the system. It's an important point for the Christian People's Party that the money now earmarked for power bills does not disappear on the way to those who really need this help. Saving municipalities for additional bureaucracy in the middle of the budget year is also important. With this scheme, the money can be sent directly to the population during the next few days. However, despite the social profile underlying the one-off payments, there is a risk that there will be some payment problems that are not captured by this scheme. The Christian People's Party will therefore point out that, in this situation, the social service law must function as the safety net it intends to be. We have great faith that the municipalities around the country manage this law to the best of their knowledge. Nevertheless, in order to ensure that we have the same central and local objective in this situation, we are pleased that the Government will now issue a circular encouraging municipalities to demonstrate the flexibility provided by the social services law to accommodate the payment problems that may have arisen as a result of the situation on the energy market. In particular, it is important in this context to point out that it is not reasonable to require the sale of properties. Nor is it normal for children’s savings to be used for the family’s electricity costs, but it is not unreasonable that children’s health should also be used for light and heat. Indeed, child welfare is intended as a subsidy to the operating costs of families with children and not to build up wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e484	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e488	It has been claimed from Kommune-Norge that at Stortinget we impose tasks on the municipalities – and to solve the problems – without accompanying money. In Kongsberg municipality, the social office paid out 1.4 million. kr in aid in January 2002. It was on the level of previous years. In January of this year, payments amounted to 2.2 million. kr. The number of people who have asked for help in the social office has increased by 30 pst. The situation on the labour market and the fact that the Government has increased the income limit for the receipt of unemployment benefits are some of the explanations, says the social director of the press on 18 January. The increase in the electricity price will not be noticed until around Easter hours, and he fears that the payments of social assistance will explode. When State Council Steensnæs from the Christian People's Party went out and said that people who did not make their bills had to go to the social office, I assume he expected them to receive a positive treatment. This will also include additional costs for Norwegian municipalities. Now we have heard that the Right Representative of the Municipal Committee has realised that there will be increased expenditure. My question is: Does the Christian People's Party also recognize that? Is it the case that, in the context of the revised budget, a positive result will be achieved in relation to the actual expenditure by municipalities on social assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e495	Kommune-Norway is struggling with an imbalance in the economy. Municipality of Norway has long, before electricity prices increased, pointed out that revenue is not consistent with expenditure, which increases more than revenue. The government has said, both in the context of last year's municipal bill and in the context of the budget, that it will do something about this – that it is necessary to address this issue. The government has said, and we will stress it with the decisions we will take later this evening, that it will look at this situation in the context of the revised budget. And then, of course, we don't just want to look at it, but you want to analyze this and get the real numbers. Several of those who have proposed these figures have said that they are ‘thinking of a number’. We find it unwise to come up with a ‘think about a number’ and propose something, but we have, of course, recognised the realities, and we want to contribute the necessary economy to the municipalities so that they can cope with this situation. But social care law is not a new law for municipalities, and for municipalities it is most important that we keep people in work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e500	There are no parties that have promised as concretely as the Christian People's Party has done in this matter. On several occasions both the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party and the State Council Steensnæs from the Christian People's Party have told people that they should turn on the power, have it warm enough, we shall do this. Therefore, the disappointment was very great when the proposition came to Stortinget, and it turned out that you had so little to do with. I am pleased that the treatment in Stortinget has resulted in a better solution, but I am still very much in favour of what the Christian People's Party really believes about this matter. For example, in the case of families with children, there would be far more people who would not have had to go to the social office if they had now received a fixed grant of light and warmth. It is true that they would get the money in the fall, but it would give them the opportunity to call the e-work and say, "We get money in the harvest, can we get a postponement?" They could go to the social office and get a loan, so they could pay their electricity bill now. So it's very strange to experience that the Christian People's Party is not involved, when they recognize the problem, as they say. Then they say, "Why is politics changing from position to opposition?" Yes, I wonder about the Christian People's Party too. But not enough, it changes from position to position. For the previous Bondevik government, the aim was to reduce differences in Norway. I understand that the representative of Østberg is busy. Is it true that he does not know that the government he supports does not agree that it is a problem that the differences in Norway are increasing, but on the contrary he believes it is okay, and that targeted action should be taken against those who have the worst, which, in my view, is similar to the old charity system?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e507	We have promised concretely,' said Andersen. And yes, we have promised concretely, because it was created a situation where old people were terrified of having on power, and they froze. There was an atmosphere raised via the media, where it was absolutely necessary to go out and be concrete and promise that no one should be afraid to keep on the power to keep it warm enough, so that you do not freeze. Here it was necessary to be concrete. And as I've expressed in my post, we'll keep that promise. In the position, we participate in doing something for families with children. Among other things, we have in the 2003 budget, as part of the Cooperative Government, the largest increase has ever been achieved by removing the requirement for housing to be financed by the Husbank. This leads, inter alia, to: Some SEK 25 000 in housing aid per person is allocated to 5,000 new families with children. years. Yes, we follow up. We have followed up the template that other parties have wanted to remove with their proposals. At the same time, we are concerned that there will be no loss of jobs in this country. That is why we also need to pursue a tight policy, and that is why we need to focus our efforts on those who need it the most. It's not an alms, but it's a good policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e516	It was necessary in an upscale media situation to be concrete, says the representative of Østberg. And then he emphasizes that what the Christian People's Party is in today, that help comes now. It was good that both the State Council of Steensnæs and the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party were concrete. But it's all the more surprising that today's Christian People's Party presents it as if they have now turned it out to all those who needed help in an extraordinary situation. It actually seemed that the Christian People's Party, of all people, hasselled that there is a party in this room that will also make the template that pertains to light and heat, permanent for the children's families. It's eye-catching. And it's no less alarming that Ivar Østberg here makes it appear that the proposals that are here today are questions about either – or whether or not it increases support or more money for the municipalities. So there's actually questions about both of them. An additional circular for the municipalities is therefore necessary. And there's a multiple here that also wants to set up with money. It manufactures Ivar Østberg as if the money disappeared on the road. These are new tones from the person who is the case spokesman for the municipality's proposal, and who in another context are talking about that the municipalities have to get as much free income as possible, so they can use them wherever they need the most. There is also a new signal in the relationship between tasks and means.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e525	The store has ordered a housing message, and one wants to use the housing message, among other things. have a broad review of the housing aid, and see this in an overall context. It would be natural for both the template and other housing support conditions to be discussed and reviewed in that communication and for us to have a serious debate. As regards the potential needs of municipalities for additional appropriations, we will come back to this in the context of the revised budget. We're in, along with all the other parties, asking for this. I can't believe there should be new signals. I feel that just by being on a higher grant than the 700 kroner, which is NOK 2 500, we have taken into account the acute situation of many people.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e532	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e535	The extraordinary situation we have in winter shows that a one-sided belief in market forces is failing. The centre lot exposure runs along three lines: help to those who are unable to manage an acutely difficult power calculation community management of power resources stimulation for a more sensible use of energy The last two points will be brought back to us in the discussion of various proposals in the Energy Committee. The centre part is very satisfied that a broad majority is now behind a single payment in the bumper stand of NOK 2500, and that the income limits for entitlement to the bumper stand are increased in 2002 by NOK 30000. We also think it is good that the template of light and heat is temporarily extended to children's families for one tertiary, but we hope that this can be made permanent in the next round. We have been concerned that even those who fall outside the support system need help in this particular situation. We put the search light on this early in January, both in Great Britain's Question Time and in written questions to the Government. We meant – and we mean – that the municipalities here have a central role in reaching those who do not come under general schemes. This clearly also meant representatives of the Government. People were given clear advice to turn to the social offices. But where many of the social leaders who from their populace in several of the municipalities had been notified of being extra-contained with payments in 2003, as a result of a very tight community economy. The government indicated a solution that they should not know about. The centre party is pleased that tonight there will be a number for an immediate run to the municipalities. We would have liked this promise to be worth $300 million. NOK, but we're of course willing to secure multiples for the second best. We thought it was good that the Workers' Party has gradually had such a strong commitment that the municipalities would also get an immediate offer now. The Committee appoints an exceptional circular. It's unusual for a group of caverns to go to such a step. In this situation, it is absolutely necessary to have a circular stating that municipalities should temporarily disregard requirements for the sale of parts of their property or that the savings of the children should be used to pay an extra high power bill. Our attitude is that a so clear message about the practice of social services law needs to be followed up with money now. Of course, no one has been given to calculate exactly what additional expenditure this will involve for the municipalities, but it seems quite clear that a further expenditure will be incurred. We're going to think of a second time relative to this. We're going to have a one-time exercise of 130 million. kr today. It is to align it to impose tasks on municipalities and to follow up with funds. Then one will next consider in the revised budget what was the final cost. And we won't stop asking the Government for such an assessment, but we also suggested that what had to be the result of that assessment is followed up with additional permissions. The extraordinary situation we have this year must also mean that one should not deduct funds from the municipalities in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e571	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e574	The center party does it again: they deceive and trick the population. Why does the representative Meltveit Kleppa and the rest of the opposition make it so that they will raise the income limit for housing aid by NOK 30 000, when they know that the Government of the State budget for 2003 increased this limit by up to – I have to point out until – NOK 16 300? Why, then, use figures for 2002? Why does the representative Meltveit Kleppa use numbers that she knows are wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e582	There were unusually strong words from a mild southerly. What the Central Party is doing here is that we, together with the Labour Party, and the SV, are resubmitting the proposal we are making in the context of the 2003 budget. I didn't register at any time in the budget management that we were in debt corked to fool or to fool the people. I'm surprised that the government has done so little to find that for some of the people who are now being supported, it has led to an increase. It's a pleasure, and I expect the Minister of State to go into it more closely now, so that the Storting will get into it. I want to send the debt itself in return to the Right. In fact, today, the Right is involved in ordering a circular that means increasing the costs for municipalities. They stand here and know that this is the case, but they don't want to allow more money for the municipalities to follow this up. If they are to – and they are needed when a circular comes – they will be forced to either put on the property of the municipalities or cut off other expenses in the municipalities. Whether or not this link has been visited. The right hand side will get its own evaluation. But that it's misleading the way Right makes it today, there can't be any doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e591	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e594	This winter has shown how vulnerable electricity supply is to low rainfall. So it's not the market that makes sure we have little power, but it's actually the lack of rainfall that makes sure we have little power. The lowest recorded since measurements started in 1931 was the intention of the power stations in the autumn of 2002. So there's a historical perspective of this, which you have to take inwards. At the same time, we had an early winter in the largest consumption areas in the Nordic countries, and prices rose rapidly to a very high level. Although there has now been a period of milder weather, power prices are still at a relatively high level. We know that the intent is still bad, and that there may be more difficult periods in the future. After the power exchange price was up to 80 kWh in mid-January, prices have been between 30 and 40 kWh for several weeks. This is about twice what prices have normally been in winter in recent years. Cold periods may bring prices a little bit up again, while more normal temperatures are likely to give relatively stable prices, at the level you see today. Evolution towards the spring is very dependent on the temperatures for the rest of the winter, and when the snow smelting comes in the mountains. So even if it's a late Easter, we should ask for an early spring. The government has in St.prp. No 41 submitted a proposal to pay a lump sum of NOK 700 to those households that received housing support in the third semester of 2002 to compensate for the increase in electricity prices. This proposal was presented in week 2. At the same time, we said that we were putting forward this proposal, that we should keep up with progress, but that we felt that it was necessary to take immediate action. At the same time, I would like to point out that week 2 was the week the highest prices were reported in the market, and we made an assessment based not only on economic sustainability compared to the fact that we have to have a tight budget, but also to give a share of a coverage of an average consumption based on the type of households that receive housing support, which thus has a significantly lower average consumption because they have less apartments than the average consumption otherwise. We believe that housing support is a very targeted and accurate system for those who have the worst income over a longer period of their lives. It includes 106 000 households with very low incomes. We have chosen to propose a simple system because we had to do this quickly, with equal compensation for all the groups in the housing aid scheme in order to be able to make payments quickly at low administrative costs. We could have made it harder, which would have made it more secure, with more money for those who had children, for example, and other things, but so we chose a very simple and stencil-based system to reduce costs and to do this as quickly as possible. I noticed that the majority in Stortinget is proposing to increase the one-off amount of compensation for increased power prices to NOK 2 500. I believe that NOK 2 500 will make a significant contribution to compensation for increased electricity costs for these households, which have lower average consumption than the average households otherwise have in Norway. At the same time, I would like to stress that we in the Government do not feel indignant that our parties on the Stortinget are involved in this, because we have said that we should keep up with the situation, and the situation at high power prices has been longer than we could foresee at the time when we immediately took action in week 2. However, there is also a majority in favour of increasing the income limits of the housing aid scheme for families with children by NOK 30 000 and for all of the housing aid scheme to receive lighting and heating supplements. It is possible that we have not been good at sending out press releases and telling about all the details and changes we have made in the bets. But it is that we have a significant increase in rates because there was a significant effort on housing support in the budget, where little less than half of the increase in housing aid was used to extend the scheme for families with children. Then we used a little bit of what was added to it, an increase for those who already have light and heat, with a higher template than before, and then we adjusted all the rates internally in the scheme, which contributes to the rise in the income limit. So what this government has done in this area is in stark contrast to the arrangement we inherited from the Stoltenberg government last fall, where it was actually a cut for all the residents other than those who lived in the largest cities in Norway, and where the government of Bondevik helped to increase the stencil for electricity and heat at that time, so that for those who got electricity and heat, it would still be a positive result. I have noticed that you now want to make changes to the addition of light and heat, so that everyone can get it. I do not disagree that it may be a good bet, that it may be right in the future. But I feel that it might be a little strange that this is an area that no one had suggested in the harvest. While everyone has been concerned that we should do something, see things in context and get a more targeted and accurate housing support system, no one at that time had suggested extending it. But you had a proposal to remove the 40 m2 area limit so that those that were below that limit would get in. Maybe they also have the same problems with their current bill today? Last week, the representative Signe Eye had a question in the Questionnaire about those who have shared care, where not both parties can get housing support. That proposal was not prioritised until Christmas, as they might also be worthy of it. The question is: is the time of the day, where we are going to talk about temporary compensation, the right time to choose where the permanent solutions from the change in the housing aid scheme should be? No, I don't think so, especially when we know that we get a big message for the autumn that goes through the whole housing support system. I'm glad that the Progress Party is holding on to the fact that we can actually see things in context, especially when we make lasting changes. Otherwise, I will reward the Workers' Party for being consistent, even though the consequence is a little different than before. Two years ago, they were consistent in non-discrimination. They then proposed to remove the light and heat plug-in for all pensioners and disabled persons. There was equal treatment. That that consequence now becomes the other way, gets to be so its case, but the big words, I seem to be a little weird, considering that electricity costs have been a problem for disabled people and pensioners, and where the Stoltenberg government proposed a severe tightening, which they had voted down in the Stortinget. The deadline for applying for the first semester has expired. The majority have granted money for two payments in 2003. The third semester of 2003 is therefore due in January 2004 and is charged to the housing aid budget for 2004. In order to avoid extra payment of housing aid disconnected from the incorporated application procedures in the municipalities and in the Husbank, which will provide significantly more administrative additional expenditure, I will coordinate the payments related to the regulatory changes with the second forward payment in September and link them to the introduction of monthly payments of housing aid. However, these improvements shall be calculated from the first semester but shall be paid in September. I think it is unfortunate that we are changing the legislation on housing aid several times after the 2003 budget has been adopted. This will lead to increased administrative costs for municipalities and countries. The housing offices of municipalities and the social services of municipalities will have a great deal to do with new housing support applicants who need to guide, register, check and check carefully. This system will increase the processing of proceedings in the municipalities. There will also be increased administrative costs for the House Bank, far beyond what the Government had put in to compensate for a very simple one-off exit of the additional allocation. The government has previously announced that it will carry out a survey of the impact on the local economy of such increases in the electricity prices that we have had this winter. We said that before we submitted the proposition that is currently being processed. We will present the results of this survey in the 2004 Community Proposition and in the revised national budget. However, I would like to stress that when you now only discuss one expenditure page, we have to innovate that there are actually quite a number of other challenges for the local government sector and for the entire budget. It is easy to raise expenditure on the State budget in political competition when it is independent of income. The main reason why government parties have not been able to go any further is that we clearly see perspectives for a revised national budget that is very difficult to sew together within the economic framework that this bulk of population is supposed to have. The tightness of the budget continues to be maintained, and for each of the decisions put forward here, the bad and difficult cut that the Stortinget has to decide on when the revised national budget is presented. Then it could be that it would be better to wait something to overwhelm all the appropriations at this time of year, to see who has to pay the bill, because it's not sure that everything is socially fair when you see who has to pay the bill at the end. We know, for example. from the earlier date that the Workers' Party's attachment to the use of fee increases as payment has a very unfair impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e628	Then there will be – not surprising – a change of lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e631	Since many have been so concerned that the Stoltenberg government has removed the amount of template for light and heat, I think I must be allowed to remember the Storting, including the Council of State, about what really happened. We're the ones who suggested it. But it was also the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Parties, that made a settlement in that big pile. Then these funds came into place again, just as the government parties here in Stortinget now add more money to the pensioners than the government suggested. So it wasn't worse. The council is well aware that many in her government have been in the media with a very high profile and said that older people shouldn't have to freeze, that people should get help, that it's just to turn on the heat, and that the social minister has said that it's just to go to the social office, you'll get the bill covered. But what happens when the Government comes to the Storting? Well, the government comes to Stortinget with a proposal of 700 kroner per year. household. It's incomprehensiblely low. It is therefore good that the government parties here in the house refuse to participate in such a puzzled action, and that they have now participated in almost quadrupling the amount. Does the Council of State really think that 700 kroner is sufficient, according to all the expectations that were created? In the vote, the Right and Christian People's Party ask that you ‘follow closely’ and ‘estimate the need for increased transfers to the municipalities’. Then I have to ask the Council of State: is there any doubt in the Council of State that the municipalities will need increased transfers as a result of the increased electricity bills?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e640	It is possible that the representative Eye did not think it was as sluggish as it sounded when she said that they had a high profile and had said that people would not die of cold. In fact, I believe it was very important at the time and in that debate that the social signal to older people was going out that it was not such a power crisis that they had to turn off the current, which could help them get significantly worse health. I don't think we should talk so much about it, among other things. because older people occasionally only receive fragments of information. That's what many others do too, but the older ones overreact to that kind of message. Therefore, it was extremely important to put your foot down and give very clear information that it was helpful to get it. When you've gone through more examples of people who have actually saved a lot of electricity, and who were in a critical situation, it turns out they didn't necessarily have payment problems. It also turned out that some of them did not even fire with electricity, but had other types of heating. It often turns out that older people can have a lot of money on the book and still start saving in some kind of misunderstood social loyalty that they should go all the way to a Norway that may not have saved enough electricity. I do not think it is possible to mention that both Jon Lilletun and the Minister of Energy were out with quite clear signals about this, in such a way. They didn't say it was just going to the social office, so you would cover the bill. No, they said that those who had major problems could go to the social office to cover the bill. It's very important that we have social legislation that actually says it. We have social legislation that says something about long-term help, and we have social legislation that says something about short-term help. There are other demands to get help for short-term economic problems than there are for the long-term problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e649	I think the council had many wise words in their posts, but perhaps very little concrete. What I'm thinking about is what the Council of State was about in terms of other possibilities for reaching those families and those people who had to have problems with unforeseen expenses, which the electricity bill has become. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has two proposals. Four and five. In proposal No 5 we ask the Government to analyse the impact of Norwegian tax policy on social security and low-paid people, and we ask the Government to come back to Stortinget with it in its own, suitable case. I wonder if the Council of State could comment on this. Could it possibly also be a desire for the Government to get such an analysis, so that we can see in a better way later what action we are going to take against those people who are not able to exist on their own income, but who have to live in hope and believe that the Storting sometimes comes with alms for them to get through their everyday lives. The Council of State was also concerned — perhaps a little daunting from the point of view of revision — that it will be cut in areas that might be perceived as unsocial. I would like to ask the Council of State to take a closer look at it before Stortinget already if possible. And then one last thing that goes on that state council said about the cause of high electricity prices. As I understood the Council of State, it was the blame. In my main post I was also concerned with this lack of production, and I think we should look more closely at it. Had it been so that the Right – and the Government – had been involved in a larger production in the past, we might not have faced the situation that we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e660	Let me start with the last one. Yes, more energy is needed in Norway. More energy of different types is needed, including energy that is independent of rain. This government has made it clear that there is a need to invest in alternative energy sources that do not depend on the amount of rainfall, because we need to make our basis less vulnerable. So there'll be a difference between what the government parties say is important in relation to this. Some of us believe that we need gas power plants, and that is also the starting point of the Government. We have granted permission to the three gas power stations for which it has been requested. But there's still no profitability in those projects. This is due to a combination of the price of electricity and the gas price. It's like the intersection of these that makes this not commercially profitable today. Even though I want more energy of this kind, I don't intend to subsidize gas power plants to realize it. So the question of the revised national budget. What we don't see is what Per Sandberg says exists, namely higher tax revenues due to higher electricity prices. At the moment, there is a tax failure, and there is a failure in VAT access. There are failures in much of what is in place as the basis for the revised national budget, so we hope that the next two to three months – before we are done – will provide a different kind of perspective. So it's not like you're taking off your savings and paying the power bill, and then spending money just like before. The Christmas trade went much worse than most had foreseen, because people had begun to see that they would get extra expenses from which they had to plan. Trade is also going worse at the moment, and that is a consequence of the large withdrawal of normal purchasing power to pay these high electricity bills. So it's going to have an effect on the total budget if we get significantly lower tax revenue.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e671	So far over 24 hours ago, we visited the richest Right-Rapporteur in the whole country, and he actually gave us the right in the opposition. He said that the magazines should be fuller when we met this winter, and that there should have been a policy that made sure that the power we produce here in the country would actually benefit the inhabitants. There is not exactly any help in that we have such a thinly liberalised power market as we have, which in fact means that some power plants speculated in – and thus created insecurity for people – that it would rain later in the autumn. The old ones with regular people's electricity bill as they knew they could in any case withdraw in terms of increased prices later in the fall. I would like to say one thing about the policy pursued in more and more areas, in the housing market and in the electricity and energy markets. When you let the market rule, as the Government – Right, Christian People’s Party and Left – will, there will be more that fall outside. There will be more people coming into the government slogans to help those who need it the most. Then the community has to pay more, money that does not go in the pockets of those who suffer from high housing prices and under high electricity prices, but that goes in the pockets of others who serve at the same prices. So the question is, does the Council of State think it's okay that more people who have been outside the social system for a long time come back to the social office -- as in the social office at Kongswinger -- as a result of us choosing market solutions that push more people out, so that they get into that position that they need help most?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e680	I would like to stress that the Minister of Energy has announced a review of the Energy Act, just to look at the situation that arose when there was too much electricity sold in relation to our needs during the winter, and to see if other types of mechanisms should be introduced. But you have to think carefully about how to make changes and what effects they have. I would like to remind you that we have been a net importer of energy in this country for several periods in the last few years. So we've been dependent on this market to meet our needs. If we didn't have this energy available, the bill would be higher for us all. We have had maximum production, and we have produced much more than what we have done in a normal year in Norway in the last three years, because there has been a lot of rainfall. Then we are in a situation where we can well criticise the energy companies in retrospect and say that one should think differently. The policy instruments to be used for this may need to be considered. But we are in a situation where we have had less rainfall – there has not been so little rainfall in 70 years – and then there is also a lot of post-mortem time in such an assessment. It may well be that if you had mechanisms, you would still sell quite a lot out of time because you had calculated that there would be a lot of rainfall. It's nice to be a follow-up clock, but a follow-up clock is not necessarily wise. So it is not the case that increased liberalisation in the last ten years has given more social clients. No, the increase in liberalisation over the last ten years has given fewer social clients. In fact, the expenditure of the social services in Norwegian municipalities has fallen in the last ten years. The explanation is not liberalisation, but that we have had an upturn in employment in the labour market. There is no doubt that there are now two factors that will contribute to more social clients, one is the high electricity prices, and the other is increased unemployment. But it is not the market that creates the increased unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e689	The Council of State suggests that there is a lack of rainfall that has created this situation, and that this is a winter that we are not going to have again. The centre party is pleased that in the extraordinary situation that is this year, many people see that it is necessary to take this seriously and learn something, and that it is necessary to take debates other than this one that is going on. There is a need for a debate on public ownership of power resources, requirements for magazine filling, for two-cost systems, two-way communications, and not least for research and incentives to use alternative energy both for households and businesses. I sincerely hope that these signals also enter the government quarter and are followed up there. So today, the committee is ordering a circular on a more temporary practice in relation to social services law when it comes to the unprecedented high power bills. Is it convenient for the Council of State to suggest that it imposes additional expenditure on the municipalities – clearly – but is it not willing to follow up with money? Does she see that she can get the debt against the fact that the government here is actually running out of responsibility? In Stortinget, the government's party is about to bribe such a circular, but they don't make any money at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e697	I would like to stress that I have not said that we cannot get back such a winter as we have had. I have said that it is 70 years since there has been so little rainfall. Now I have a course in probability calculation from my studies, and I've learned that although there's little probability that this will come back based on historical factors, it can actually come next year as well. It's one of the coincidences. It happens that someone wins in Lotto twice in a row as well. I would never have said that I can guarantee that this will not appear. We know, in fact, that the magazine stuffing that's now, it's a danger that next year too, if we don't get good rain this year, can come up with critical situations. We have to be aware that that's the situation we're in. In the case of the circular, I would like to say that the government has announced earlier that we would send out a circular. When it became clear that the Stortinget would also provide guidance for this circular, we did not send anything out until the Stortinget had completed it. It would seem a little strange if there came out a circular a few days before the Storting had been treated and possibly put the leads for such a circular. I would like to stress that the framework of social law is therefore to be flexible in assessment. There is a difference between those who have long-term financial problems and those who have short-term relief needs, in relation to the extent to which municipalities require, inter alia, to realise. assets. From the point of view of the debate, it may seem that there is a need to clean up the practice that has been and to give stronger leadership, because there are quite a few who are in a difficult situation. That's why the government parties are involved in what the majority say, and the government is behind it. So the question is, will this lead to more payments? In some municipalities, it could mean that there is a higher payout, because they have practised more stringently. In other municipalities, I actually know examples of how to practice within what this legislation says. There has been a lot of beauties, and this is clear in the interpretation of the judgement. We come back to the local economy in the context of the revised national budget, which we have said since the New Year's Eve that we will do. But we actually have to view this area in the context of more than one factor. But if Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa relies on the one principle that the Stortinget should always compensate, then I am very happy as a municipal minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e706	I'm a little surprised that the Council of State doesn't see positive statements from members of the Government and the government party in the media creating great expectations in the people about what they could get from the public. But I'm going to leave it at this point. I'm busy with the local economy, like a lot of people here. Does the Council of State really think that it is right to impose a greater financial responsibility on the municipalities without the state sending a check? And if the Council of State doesn't think so, will the municipalities get full compensation for their extra costs when we get a better overview of the revised national budget? Or will it still insist that the municipalities take the financial responsibility on their own? I'm still wondering if the government sees the seriousness of this situation. I would like to remind you that State Council Steensnæs on 16 October last year went out and said that the headlines in the media that we risked an increase in the price of the stream of 30 p.m. were to take too hard in. At that time the power price was 24 cents. We now know that the increase has been formidable since then, and it was the council itself on the inside. My conclusion is that the government didn't see that there was a crisis going on. Against this background, I can understand that the Government of the Solberg State Council proposed puzzle measures. Didn't the Council of State understand, even though this was already much earlier, all last autumn, the seriousness of the matter when she worked out her proposition in week two?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e715	When it comes to the question of whether we roll a greater financial responsibility over to the municipalities through the circular that comes, or whether it's kind of clarifying an interpretation that's already in social law, I think we can discuss nuances on it. There are some municipalities that interpret what is now held by the majority of the committee, as being the way they practice it for reasons of fairness and social law. On the question of whether we impose a greater financial responsibility, I will answer that yes, compared to the fact that the municipalities may have narrowed these boundaries – and many municipalities have done so – we do. Nevertheless, it is certain that the problem of high electricity prices will lead to increased expenditure in the local government sector. There is no doubt that there will be more customers in the social offices, and that more municipalities will have to help. In this way, we have always said that this matter is to be summed up when we come to the revised national budget, and then we have to look at the overall economic situation in the end. There are also other issues that are very dangerous to the local economy and that concern larger things, for example. failure of tax revenue. That's why it's hard to say that in this particular area, we're going to compensate or print a blank authorisation on what's going to happen in the municipal sector. We must be allowed to return to the revised national budget. Then we have an overview of how much the increased expenditure has actually been based on the assessments that have been made, and then of course we have to do it so that the entire budget is balanced. So to the question of the government, the reality of the situation is serious. I have seen nothing but serious representatives of the Government mention this for several months. We see absolute seriousness and how difficult it is for individuals to do something about the problem. But I want to make the Stortinget aware, as I have done before, that there is a rather difficult economic situation we are going into, with downtime in the Norwegian economy. We have a company that's flying out, and we have to start seeing the relationship between what we say one hour in this room, and what we say in the next -- if not, we can't do good welfare for most people in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e724	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e727	We know that many people have had serious problems dealing with their expenses in connection with current calculations. Therefore, it is important that the Storting now takes a quick and effective approach to remedy the difficult situation of people who have been charged with a power bill that they are struggling to pay. Outside the population there's probably created an unrealistic expectation of what kind of help people get to cover the flow calculation. As mentioned earlier in the debate, it has emerged through the media and in several TV debates that several key politicians are almost promising full help in this situation. Now it's so that people who have a power calculation they're struggling to pay, not just can get her paid by the social office. In order to be entitled to social assistance, the person concerned must provide evidence of both income and expenditure. Many of those who visit municipalities will therefore not meet the criteria imposed by social services laws. Therefore, it is so very important now to get a quick clarification of the laws, so that the municipalities do not practice the laws so strictly that the hall of ownership is required, the use of savings for the children, etc., before help can be given. Such a circular to the municipalities must be sent out quickly, so that there is no difference in the practice of the laws from the municipality to the municipality, and I am pleased to note that the council confirms that this will happen. So there is broad political consensus that people with poor advice need help. Many of this help will be given to municipalities. That's why the Labour Party and a number of others think that the municipalities have to add more funds, and I'm glad that there's a number behind the proposal that already signals extra transfers to the municipalities by 130 million. kr. This is important. The local authorities must be told that funds will come. If not, it will lead to discrimination depending on the economy of each municipality. It's also a relationship of trust between the state, the Stortinget, and the municipalities. For me, it is incomprehensible that not the Right Party and the Christian People's Party will now be involved in tying an amount to the municipal sector, not least on the basis of what has been mentioned in the past, that both the Minister of Oil and Energy and the Christian People's Party's parliamentary leaders early invited people to seek help from the municipalities. This may indicate, therefore, that this is an example of a lack of consistency between life and learning. The Labour Party believes that if it turns out that the municipal expenditure of consumers is higher than that of the Storing today, the Government must follow up the case and come back with proposals for more funds in the revised national budget. This debate has long been about the price of energy, liberalisation, market forces, imbalances in the power market, etc. It's all right, but the main thing is to help those who now have a lot of trouble paying their electricity billing. So one can well admit that we now have high prices of energy, may have caused in those moments that have been debated today. But this isn't interesting in this context. I'm very happy that a multiple now takes a good grip that's consistent with those that are the most difficult, i.e. people who have problems paying the power bill say, and people who have low incomes already.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e744	We in SV are very happy that we have now put in place a scheme in which we grant approx. $30 billion in support of those who have problems paying the electricity bill. I must admit that the solution was very far behind, especially in the light of the statements made by the Government and the government parties when this situation became clear. I disagree with the council when she says that the situation was raised by an atmosphere in the media. It's a reality that people's bills are so high that they can't pay them. Nor is it the case that the government made a reservation that only those who had bad advice would get help. On the contrary. I have exactly the print of what has been said in TV debates about this, and there are no these reservations with. It says: Use the power required, and the Government will initiate action. Keep it warm enough. It's gonna be all right. No one has to be afraid that they can't pay the power bill. The government is taking responsibility. The housing aid will help over 100,000. Those who fall outside it shall also receive help in the social office. No such reservations have been made. I believe that such reservations should be made, but they were not made. Therefore, it is not so strange that the expectations were high and the disappointment was great when the government made its proposals. Then the Council of State is a bit in the mood for why we're willing to go in for some changes in housing support now. Yes, it's not so strange, because it's obvious to everyone that in the situation we're in now, it's unreasonable that the families of children, who may have the greatest need to use power, are those who don't get the benefit of light and heat. If we haven't understood it before, we've now understood it. We in SV are also relatively confident that we can make changes to the schemes quickly. We wanted us to get the housing support schemes up to debate this year, precisely because we know how important they are to people who have bad advice. Therefore, we would not wait a very long time for the Government to present its communication on housing policy. Then I have a little visit to the Right, because the representative Gitmark had in one of his lines a strange approach to what has now happened. The reality is that the government parties have been involved in a rather strong increase in addition to what the government has proposed, but at the same time, the representative Gitmark finds it timely to go up and talk about populist irresponsibility of the parties who want to grant a little more than what the Right now is on. I think in a way that makes it very unprofessional, because it is a reality that we have now had to go much further than what the Government has done. And it's been on the right hand side. It has been part of the Christian People's Party, for they have seen that it has been necessary. It may be that when reality comes in and you're going to have to deal with it, this isn't about populism, but it's about taking people seriously and helping them when they don't do it, in line with the promises you've made. I'm glad that the Right has been involved in these changes, but I'm quite disappointed that you choose to call others populists. So to the municipalities: municipalities need to have an extraordinary allocation of the expenses they receive as a result of increased social assistance costs. We don't trust that the government doesn't take these expenses away in the big math. We have the experience with this government that no matter how much the municipalities prove that they have higher expenditure than income, this municipal minister doesn't care much about it, because the point is to save. That is why we believe that the Stortinget should ensure that money comes to the municipalities now. Finally, a number of positive decisions have been taken today in the Committee on Energy and the Environment. One of the positive things about this debate is that at least you try to look forward and try to find better solutions than the ones we have now. One of the measures agreed is that it will be possible for many more to be supported to become less dependent on electricity. Unfortunately, the deadline for applying has now been set on 15 March. That is why I would say to everyone who needs a pellet burner or a heat pump: run and search now. The deadline for application expires on 15 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e759	Let me start by saying that the Christian People's Party is pleased that some measures are now being taken for those who have come out worse after the special power situation we have been through this winter. We've all been labeled the increased power cost through the power calculation that we've taken into account in the last few weeks. For everyone this increase has been so that we have marked him in the wallet. Nevertheless, I am busy that there must be nuances in this debate, and that the word 'crisis' is not used too often. For those who initially have an economy that's just balancing, this price increase is dramatic, but for most of the others, I'll characterize the price increase as unpleasant. It is therefore important that all measures taken in this room are well equipped to meet their needs. For this reason, the Christian People’s Party is pleased that all the bus pay recipients are now being awarded a one-time grant of NOK 2500. This sum will be an important co-financing to cover the extra large electricity bill for the individual. It is also crucial that the sum be paid as soon as possible, for help is now needed. In addition, it is important that measures be taken for those who do not fall under the bus pay criteria but who still face economic challenges as a result of the current calculation. I am therefore pleased that the Government has announced that it will send out a circular to the municipalities stating that social services law should also be used for those who have come to a single entry entry when it comes to power calculation. The Government Party also has the promise that they will come back to an assessment of the impact on municipalities of electricity prices. As you know, this is done in the revised national budget for spring. Finally, I would say that we all in everyday life will experience that we get unexpected costs in between, for example. when it relates to the car, or when it relates to the interest. My mind is the following: Is it that because everyone now gets these unexpected costs at the same time, the collective focus on costs becomes so strong? Is it so that an extraordinary cost for the individual gets worse when everyone gets him at the same time? Therefore, I am busy that we should all be aware of our responsibility and not contribute to making the situation around the power prices worse than he is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e783	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e786	My question to the representative Meltveit Kleppa was simple. But the answer I got was unfortunately only a poorly wrapped rule technique. So I'm going to ask you again, why does the center part use numbers that they know are wrong? For the representative, Karin Andersen, there is certainly not populism when one removes, or tries to remove, light and heat in the 2001 state budget, and housing aid is being reduced for all but the four largest cities in the 2002 state budget, so as to talk about increasing and strengthening the same two schemes one to two years later and calling them bet areas. And how can the Workers' Party first warn against spending money outside the budgets for then, less than two years after, being a propellant in terms of expenditure outside the budgetary procedure of over 500 million. Do you really want to delete this item? For me, this is populism. I do not expect to receive an answer now either, as I did not receive an answer instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e797	I would like to clarify what I said when it was a question of what situation it was in. It was at a time when the energy crisis was very strongly focused, and where it was actually important for social reasons to modify which signals were sent out, not because it was not that the bill was going to be difficult, but it was also very important to give clear, simple signals to people who overreacted by shutting off the power. It was about making sure that people didn't save on the flow in a way that meant that it went out of the way of life and health. And there were strong signals that someone did it, because there was a very strong focus on that we were heading towards streaming, that prices were going to be extreme. I have to remind you that for two weeks it was announced prices of 140 cents per. kWh. We never saw it realized in the market, but people felt that that was what was said. Then you also realize that not everything is going to be 100 pst. right when people say something in a TV debate, not least because it was important to give this basic signal. When you look at the reports that have come, including: from the social workers who have been around the municipality of Oslo, where they have visited the elderly daily and turned the power up, who have turned it down again, you see it is a challenge, what signals it is. It is possible that Oddvar Stenstrøm appears more credible to them than the social workers who have been around. So that's the statement that we never give money. So it's not because we're saving, but it's because we care about keeping the jobs in this country. We must maintain the competitiveness of competitive business. We're going to help not get an even more extreme centralization than what we already have. So we're going to have to keep up the use of money in the public sector. It doesn't keep busy with the tight budget on the day the budget is adopted, and then start by granting a little more today, a little more tomorrow, a little more last week, as we are doing for the moment, for the sum, when we never see what we have to cut to balance, will lead to a very difficult situation. And it could actually be that there are other groups and other measures that would have been higher priority in the elections each party is faced with when the budget bill finally comes, that one then feels that one has been locked up in a political situation that has led to the loss of one's own freedom of action to prioritize the most important areas. That's the warning I'm giving. When we keep spending a lot of money now, it's because we're in an economic situation where we have to take the consequences of the decisions taken here tonight, in the revised national budget. And it could be tough.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e809	There are a number of representatives who have signed up for three-minute posts. The President will in no way cut anyone off from speaking, but the President thinks each representative should think about whether most of it has been said.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e812	I'll try not to extend the debate, but there are a few things that can't be contradicted. First, to the representative Gitmark, who warns the Workers' Party against spending money outside the budget. But what is the government doing? It sends a proposal to the Stortinget and refers to the revised national budget. That is already 265 million. kr. In addition, we've got 50 million. kr for heat pumps, and there is every reason to believe that there will be more propositions. The Labour Party will ensure that we find a deposit in the revised national budget for the money we are now granting here tonight. In the debate, the Council of State has tried to apologize for the fact that the proposal sent to Stortinget came early, it was not completely controlled, the winter was long, etc., but it becomes too simple. You didn't mean to make any more propositions during the winter? So to raise the income limits. It has been claimed in the debate by the Council of State and others that income limits are higher this year than last year. That's good. But why did the parties vote against our proposal to raise the limits of the 2003 budget? And why do the same parties vote against now? Or is it actually such that there are enough people who have raised their income limits somewhat, but it is far from the case for everyone, and that the sums are quite much smaller than what has been claimed from this pulpit? It is then easy to understand why the government parties do not agree with the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Center Party on an increase in the income limit of NOK 30000 now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e823	It is easy to understand the concern of the Council of State over a partial budgetary procedure so quickly after the budget has been adopted by the Council of State. It must also be right to remind you that there are actually representatives from the Government itself who have contributed to it, both when they come forward with the proposals they have made, which are so incomplete, and with the signals they have given to people. Now it was known yesterday that according to the KS had over 60 pst. by the municipalities of last year. We know that 80 pst. by the municipalities, notified in relation to the 2003 budget, of a cut in the service provision. Half report cuts in school. Many municipalities report a reduction in social assistance rates. When members of the Government came up with their strong appeals, people followed up and took them seriously, they visited the social offices, and many were rejected. This is why the majority of the population find that they have to deal with the situation in relation to securing the municipalities when an extraordinary circular is ordered here. The government has announced a circular, says the Council of State. That's good. It's probably so far a well-kept secret, but it's nice that they now waited and also got with the Storting signal. Otherwise, it would just be missing! So I hear that I get criticism, still from the Right, in relation to this proposal to raise the income limit by NOK 30000. To that is saying that I don't have other numbers to stick to. There is no indication in the 2003 budget that the Government is raising the income limit, nor has it been said so much about this today. For the Central Party, this is about taking the municipalities seriously. It's about taking the vocabularies and adding them seriously. It's about taking seriously those who are struggling with their current calculations and who do not come under the bus pay scheme, and who have followed up because they've been encouraged by the Government to turn to the municipalities. We don't want more social clients. We don't want bureaucratic arrangements in the municipalities either, but when we ask for a circular to deal with the situation that leads to extra expenditure, it's actually also about that there's going to be consistency between what we're saying and what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e838	The council is quite right that there were enough people who saved electricity without it being because they could not afford to pay the electricity bill. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that there was a need to save electricity in winter, otherwise the situation would have been much more serious. What we've been busy about is that when you give clear, simple promises, they should be kept! It can't be that you sit and say one thing, and then you say, "No, we just did this so people wouldn't turn off too many panel ovens – we didn't intend to help you anyway!" We just wanted you to turn on the oven! It can't be like that. So it would have been if the Storting had not grasped what the Government had provided, and made it much better. So until it's about the municipalities and the bill that's to be covered eventually. Yes, it's right that you have to have a balance in this. But it is that when you have to distribute the big money, you first find out what you think is most important, and then you make sure that there is money for it first. And there's no doubt that SV and the Government have a very different view. So we believe that if you had prioritised the local government sector with more money than you've done now, you'd have more room to deal with such fluctuations as the ones we see now. If the housing support system had also been given more weight, there would have been good opportunities in it. And if you had led a general policy of less differences, there would have been more people who would have made the bill clear when it comes. This is about the main policy device. It is not only in this case the Government's sea has promoted additional appropriations. We have also received quite a large additional appropriation now – and that is good – which is about Aetat, and as far as I remember, is at 166 million. kr. Just after we have adopted the budget, the government comes and says that there is a need here for more money both for measures and for employees in Aetat. – So it gets a little weird that it’s just the government that can hold on like this and get on with things right after they’ve submitted and got a budget adopted, while no one else is going to be able to grips with acute situations. So finally, it doesn't exactly light up by the representative Gitmark that he thinks what we're doing today is good. That's what I wanted, because it's a reality that this government thought light and heat were a good arrangement. It's in place now. We even increased it. It is clear that at least when she was on the municipal committee, the Council of State was very concerned about strengthening housing support. We're going to have to do that now. What's so wrong with us getting our support for those who need it the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e853	A short question and a short comment. The short comment goes to Peter Gitmark, because I think he's big in his mouth when he attacks the Center Party to operate with wrong numbers in this case. It is quite clear from the budgetary position proposed by the Government that there are certain changes in rates and so on. on the basis of normal price developments, wage formation, etc. We expect this to have been included in the estimate that we were invited to decide here in Stortinget. When the committee then asks what an increase of NOK 30,000 means, we expect an answer – that is, what that increase means in addition to the ordinary money. That's why I don't understand that Gitmark can be so unbelievable and say that here it's the Center Party and the others that operate on wrong numbers. The question comes to the attention of the Council of State. As I understood the Council of State in her contributions, she said very clearly that when we were going to grant money in connection with changes in the rules of housing, for example. for the second semester, the budgetary impact this year is only one semester, because payments to the third semester come at the beginning of the next year. In my opinion, this has never been taken very seriously into account in the answers given to Stortinget when we have asked questions as to what kind of full-year impact the proposals we are making have, and possibly what kind of future effect they will have now. So it's clear that here we're talking about the size of the appropriations, which is what we're adopting here, while we're discussing, there are completely concrete changes in the rules. If the Council of State believes that the numbers we operate with here are wrong, I hope she comes back to Stortinget with it later. There is no doubt about what the Storting wants to adopt in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e862	What I explained in my post was how we're going to pay out all the money Stortinge grants, but we can't do it so that the Mai payment has the rule changes in it. There will be a late payment in September for those changes in the rules, because the whole registration of the May payment has been completed. All the new groups that come in will not be able to get in until September, but they will then get paid after what they should have had in May, so that they get a higher payment in September than what is normal. So we have committed to spending the money that Stortinget now grants, even with regard to the changes in the rules that the government parties do not agree to, but I felt a need to notify here in the Chamber that it is technically very difficult to do this in connection with the payments in May, since the whole registration for the payment in May has been completed, and it would result in a relatively large bureaucracy to make a new registration. But everyone is going to get money in the course of the year corresponding to what they're entitled to from the first payment this year, and that's in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e867	Heikki Holmås has had the word twice and gets the word to a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e870	Then I understand your point that the Council of State believes that the only rule change that takes place from the first semester, initially is the piece that goes on light and heat. Is it so that the Council of State understands it in another way?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e875	I don't want to guarantee over this table. I think that's the way it is, but I actually think we need a round afterwards to find out if all the technical stuff is in there. But as long as it's a stencil, it should be possible to do so, because there are already registered housing beneficiaries, and it's only settledly paid.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e880	The President expects it to be cleared up afterwards. We don't have to do this in the hall. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 6 and 7. [[Votation, see pages 2034 and 2036]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e902	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2036]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e922	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2036]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e942	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2036]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e962	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2036]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e982	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2036]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1002	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2036]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1022	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2037]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1043	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see 2037]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1063	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2037]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1083	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2037]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1103	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2037]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1123	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2037]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1143	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2037]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1163	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2038]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1183	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2038]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1203	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2038]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1223	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2038]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1243	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2038]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1252	We are then ready to vote on the issues on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1259	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No I, by Mr Høglund, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Thorbjørn Jagland – for explanation of vote!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1271	Proposal No. 1 hope I can be sent to the Government. If not, I recommend the Workers' Party to vote against. Proposal No. 2 hope I can also be sent to the Government. In my opinion, we cannot say that the government will give the money that the organisations are asking for. It would be a strange decision to grant by Stortingen, but to submit the proposal should be right. With regard to proposals Nos. 3 and 4, I would recommend the Workers' Party to vote against these.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1280	I would recommend that the representatives of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left vote against proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, we also hope that SV can turn into a transmission proposal. If not, I recommend that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left vote against that proposal. I also recommend voting against the proposal No. and 3 and 4, from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1285	The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection would like to see proposals re-examined. 1 to a transmission proposal. We support the intention of proposal No. 2, and hopefully it will be converted into a transmission proposal. I would recommend voting against proposal No. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1292	I see the call for the conversion of proposal No. 2 to a transmission proposal so that the majority in the Chamber supports the intention of the proposal. SV can therefore agree to it being transmitted. The other proposals we want to vote on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1297	If I heard correctly, both proposal No. 1 and No 2 converted into transmission proposals. I would recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists vote in favour of proposal No. 3 and 4 – for proposal No. 3 with the reason that our vote is given today's situation. Of course, this does not mean that there cannot be a given situation in which the centre party may take a different position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1302	They should then have given the messages that were to be given. Proposal No. 1, by Morten Höglund, has been converted into a transmission proposal, and the text will be amended accordingly. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended to the Government to request that Norway be given transitional provisions on the free movement of labour which Germany and Austria have obtained in connection with the enlargement of the EU and which have been signalled by other nations in the context of the ongoing EEA negotiations.’ The President will propose that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposal No. 2, by the Socialist Left Party, has also been converted into a transmission proposal, and the text is amended accordingly. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended to the Government to attend immediately to humanitarian organisations asking for support for the preparation and implementation of humanitarian work in Iraq.’;» The President will propose that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from Kristin Halvorsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to refuse to provide military support for any military action against Iraq.’ Proposal No. 4 reads: ‘The Government is asking the Government to provide active support to the countries of the Security Council which are working to ensure that the arms inspectors in Iraq continue their work and to provide the necessary capacity.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1339	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister’s statement at the Stockholm meeting on 13 February 2003 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1388	During the debate, Mr Solholm put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:145 [[2001-2002]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1409	The President expects the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1439	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 2 and 3, by Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 4-7, by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 8, from Signe Eye on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party The President noted that proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, has not been taken up, as this is covered by proposal No. 8, where the Labour Party is a co-consponsor. The President further points out that, in the case of proposal No: 6, is item 70 under the heading. 580 not taken up, as this is covered by proposal No. 8, where the Progress Party is a co-sponsor. Proposals Nos. 4-7, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government of the Revised National Budget for 2003 to promote alternative measures for those groups facing financial difficulties due to increased electricity prices but which do not fall under existing public aid schemes.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to analyse the impact of Norwegian tax policies on social security and the low-paid, and to return to Stortinget on an appropriate basis.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds in modified form: ‘The 2003 budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Crones 580Dwelling aid71 Subsidies to cover costs related to increased electricity prices, granted by 371 000 0002412The operating expenditure of the Norwegian State Husbank 1The operating expenditure is increased by 1 000 000» [[new]] Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.Post Purpose:Croner571Rame grant to municipalities64Sex grant, increased by 500000000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1567	Proposals Nos. 2 and 3, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to the Revised National Budget with proposals for the recovery of the exceptional expenditure incurred by municipalities in the form of additional expenditure on economic social assistance as a result of high electricity prices.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Croner571Rame grant to municipalities60Inhabitant grant, increased by 300000000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1621	Proposal No. 8, from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party shall be taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Chap. 571 Framework grants to municipalities Post 64 Gender grants, increased by NOK 130 000 000. 580 Housing allowance Item 70 Housing allowance, estimated appropriation, increased by DKK 151 500 000 »
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1679	Once the Storting has now adopted proposal No. 8, which contains an alternative to the option cap. 580, heading 70, should be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1757	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of 27 January 2003 of the Odelstinget: ‘The Government asks that the net revenue relating to the introduction of the processing fee for applications for authorisation under the Foreign Affairs Act and for the application for authorisation of, or solution from, Norwegian citizenship be used as a whole for relevant information measures to the target group of the fees intended to apply, as well as general information measures to groups that abuse the schemes under the Norwegian Foreign Law, including groundless asylum seekers.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1775	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of 27 January 2003 of the Odelstinget: ‘The Government asks the Government to introduce language testing and acquisition requirements as a condition for obtaining Norwegian citizenship.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1794	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of 27 January 2003 of the Odelstinget: ‘The Government is asked to remove the opportunity to hold both Norwegian and foreign citizenship.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1812	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Andersen on behalf of the Progress Party submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 6 February 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the Labour Protection and Working Environment Act, etc., in order to make the provisions of the Act on night work more flexible by allowing the law to increase night work access in several types of establishments.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1830	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Andersen on behalf of the Progress Party submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 6 February 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the Labour Protection and Working Environment Act, etc., which introduces access to contracts with individual employees for overtime of up to 600 hours per employee. calendar year.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1848	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Heikki Holmås, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 6 February 2003: «The Government is asked to draw up regulations so that working time arrangements and overtime in professions responsible for safety or where the profession requires particular vigilance ensure safety and the interests of users and the general public.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1866	A vote is taken on the proposal by Mr Eirin Faldet, on behalf of the Workers' Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 11 February 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the Working Environment Act in order to ensure that workers’ rights and protection in relation to work in night and Sunday-open establishments in the trade in goods are safeguarded by this Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1884	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 11 February 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to refer a matter to the Government as soon as possible for a change to the alcohol law and, where appropriate, to the law. other laws so that the sale of beer can follow the opening hours of the shops.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1902	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Eirin Faldet, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 11 February 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a State authorisation system for the child protection institutions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1920	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Eirin Faldet, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 11 February 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a plan to cover the costs of the municipalities with experts and lawyers and other unforeseen costs in the child-restraint cases brought before the county council.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1938	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 11 February 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose the establishment of a State Children’s Protection Authority.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1956	There is a vote on the proposal by May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by the meeting of 11 February 2003 of the Odelstinget: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess a change to new §5-1 of the Children’s Protection Act by including a provision that the regions also have a statutory responsibility to develop a plan for the use of private and/or municipal institutional places.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1974	There is a vote on the proposal by May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by the meeting of 11 February 2003 of the Odelstinget: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with an overview and plan of how the Child, Youth and Family Administration will develop a satisfactory level of competence enhancement within 1 year.’ [[BUFA]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e1993	There is a vote on the proposal by May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by the meeting of 11 February 2003 of the Odelstinget: ‘The Government asks the Government to place one regional office in Alta and one regional office in Bodø and one regional office in Fredrikstad.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e2011	There is a vote on the proposal by May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by the meeting of 11 February 2003 of the Odelstinget: ‘The size asks the Government to come back with a reassessment of the number of regional breakdowns and location.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e2029	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 11 February 2003: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an evaluation of Oslo two years from the entry into force of the amendments to the Child Protection Act and the Family Protection Office Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e2045	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 11 February 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to request the municipalities to set up a Local Service Cooperation Body consisting of representatives of, for example: child protection, school, kindergarten, police, health care, non-governmental organisations and politicians.» [[SLT]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e2061	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 11 February 2003: ‘The Government requests the Government to promote the legislative changes necessary to ensure that the confidentiality of child protection matters is not an obstacle to cooperation with other bodies.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-2.ana.ud832e2081	There is no record.
