ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e55	Honourable co-representatives! Former P.A. Anne-Olaug Ingeborgrud is dead, almost 78 years old. Anne-Olaug Ingeborgrud was born on 28 April 1925 and lived all his life at Nes in Rome. She was a professional teacher and married to Harald. Together they had seven children as well as grandchildren and great-grandchildren. In addition to her professional choice as a teacher, she was also deeply involved in Christian organizational work and community life. With the departure of Anne-Olaug Ingeborgrud, a long and varied political working day has also ended. Her political commitment began as a elected local government representative at Nes from 1959, and this commitment gave her twelve rich years of local politics. In 1973 she became alternate representative to the Stortinget for Akershus Christian People's Party, and she met in several rounds before becoming a permanent member in 1977. She was on the financial committee and was there, among others. the rapporteur-general for several heavy matters. She had great work capacity, political silence and strong loyalty to both the party and her fellow players. Anne-Olaug Ingeborgrud is remembered for his willpower and his opinions against. As the only representative of the Christian People's Party, she voted in favour of the Equality Act, and she was thus a front figure for women's questions. After the 1981 election, Ingeborgrud fell out of the Stortinget, but her knowledge was soon re-established. At the formation of the Willoch Government in 1983 she became the closest political assistant to the Council of State Kjell Magne Bondevik in the Ministry of Church and Education as his State Secretary. She was a resourceful and thorough politician. With her warm and sluggish manner of being, she made friends both in all parties and among the employees of the Storting. Anne-Olaug Ingeborgrud was vice-leader of the party for a period until 1987, and she was also active in the Christian People's Party Women by being head of state for many years and vice-leader on land. With her 78 years, she had a varied and exciting life where there was room for both family, professional and political tasks. With the disappearance of Anne-Olaug Ingeborgrud, a long and varied political working day has ended. In deep respect we remember Anne-Olaug Ingeborgrud and shine peace over her memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e81	The representatives of André Kvakkestad, Haakon Blankenborg, Bent Höie, Jorunn Ringstad, Øystein Djupedal, Elsa Skarbøvik and Per Erik Monsen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the state of Hedmark: Helge Bjørnsen For Uppland County: Morten Ørsal Johansen For the Rogaland County: Inger Lise Aarrestad and Jan Petter Rasmussen For the South Tribute County: Tora Husan For Eastfold County: Morten Olsen The representative, Bjørn Hernæs, applied for sick leave from 8 April until further notice. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for Hedmark, Kari Gløersen, is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting in Stortinget under the mandate of the representative Bjørn Hernæs. Other alternate for Hedmark County, Randi Wetterhus Krogstad, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Randi Wetterhus Krogstad is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e153	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e158	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen and Ranveig Frøiland.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e163	Kjell Engebertsen and Ranveig Frøiland are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen and Ranveig Frøiland are unanimously elected as presidents of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e182	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e189	The background for this case is a Document No. Eight proposals from Inger S. Enger, Ola D. Glötvold and Eli Sollied Overraas on equal compensation for assisted fertilisation and adoption from abroad. After the presentation to the Stortinget, dated 6 May 2002, the Stortinget has agreed to a system of assisted fertilisation with which a single committee is satisfied. We have had the single-use benefit scheme for adoption of children from abroad since 1992. A collective committee is pleased with the family minister's positive statement that adoption is a good and equivalent way of forming a family. In the current year, the social benefits are set at NOK 23400, while the real costs of adoption matters vary between NOK 80000 and NOK 120000. The majority in the Committee, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, see in one of their comments that an adoption should be for the child's best. It's fixed in the adoption law. Assisted fertilisation is a medical provision for childless couples to have their own children. In this context, multiple suggestions suggest that you attach the document to the meeting book. In the Sem Declaration, the government has said that one will raise the adoption benefit during the period. The government party, which here alone is a minority comment, asks the Ministry to come back to Stortinget with a question about the size of the adoption grant. Although the government party here is in a minority, the government council will certainly notice that there is a solid majority in the committee, all except the Progress Party, that will escalate the adoption support. I'm looking at a couple of minority suggestions here. For the Christian People's Party, this is a particularly important matter, which we are looking forward to the Minister of Children and Family in this case coming to the Stortinget in his own way. The case is so important that she hastens to allow the department to prepare this properly before the Stortinget manages it and makes decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e206	From time to time, the focus has been on different aspects of foreign adoption. In the context of the treatment and determination of the proportion of assisted fertilisation, attention was also paid to foreign adoption and the unreasonable costs involved. The problems of adoption and assisted conception are both the same and different. When the Storting refused that assisted fertilisation was to be paid in full by the patient, the starting point was that a health service and a treatment offered through the public health service could not have a silage mechanism that meant that only they could, with good advice, buy treatment. This was and is a principle that is a foreign element of Norwegian health policy. Therefore, the proportion was reduced and a ceiling was set for maximum expenditure that is to be met by most. There are many children today who suffer and have difficult growing-up conditions. There are many potential parents who can provide these children with security, the security that all children should be entitled to. However, it is not certain that those who have the best advice can provide the best growing conditions. But our adoption policy has such a crooked silage mechanism, where only those who can afford it can be judged as adoption parents. The cost of foreign adoption can be very high. There is expenditure on travel expenses and subsistence expenses in the country of origin of the child, expenditure on adoption organisations, etc. The one-off aid currently granted only covers to a small extent the actual costs incurred by adoption parents. The financial burden may become excessive if one adopts several times. It is also worth noting that the size of the adoption grant is significantly lower in this country than in the other Nordic countries. Proposals and comments made by the Committee indicate that there is a clear majority, yes, unanimity in the Committee, that adoption aid should be increased. The Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Labour Party believe that it should be equal to the basic amount of the people's fear, but has something different in time for this to happen. The Labour Party proposed to start the escalation in the context of the budget and believes that it should continue to be possible in the current financial year and that it would be natural to do so in the context of the revised national budget. Where the Government’s parties refer to its commitment in the Sem Declaration to increase adoption aid and ask the Government to present it in an appropriate manner to the Stortinget, it is hoped that the Government will respond to the request of the majority of the Committee for a stepping up and will choose a suitable way in relation to the revised budget. This will be a reasonable response to the Committee's wishes in the light of the signals now given by the Committee. I address the proposal promoted by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e223	The representative Britt Hildeng has taken up the proposal she has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e226	The cost to families wishing to adopt children from abroad is, in part, very high. That is why there is reason to commend the central party proposers who, through this proposal, want to increase public support for such adoption. The figures show that the costs of adoption from abroad may vary considerably, but child, youth and family management indicate that costs vary from 80 000 kroner to 120 000 kroner. With today's adoption aid, which for this year is 23 400 kroner, the financial costs each family has to bear in connection with foreign adoption can go up to 100 000 kroner. That means that many people who otherwise have the desire and the ability to adopt orphan children will be excluded from this possibility simply because it is too expensive. It must be completely wrong, as SV sees it, that the cost of adoption itself should so far exclude people from being able to give orphans, often from countries with great poverty and misery, the possibility of a safe and healthy life in a family here in the country. Therefore, SV, together with the Centre Party, proposes that adoption aid from 1 January next year be raised to 1 G. This was also proposed by SV in the context of the review of the State budget of the year. This will mean an increase of approx. NOK 30,000, i.e. more than a doubling of the current adoption aid. In this way, we believe that more people can have the opportunity to meet their wishes to adopt children from abroad. Even after the increase in adoption aid proposed by SV now, there will be significant costs related to foreign adoption. In Document No: The 8 proposal was originally intended to equal public aid for assisted fertilisation and adoption. There may be several reasons to be cautious about comparing these two arrangements directly. However, it will at least be that in most cases the costs of foreign adoption of each family will still be significantly higher than those of assisted fertilisation, SV shipping and the proposal of the Central Party to increase the aid to 1 G, had been adopted. SV will therefore state that for us, it will be a long-term objective to work to increase adoption aid beyond 1 G, to give everyone who wants it equal financial opportunity to implement a foreign adoption. Now, unfortunately, it does not seem to be a majority for any binding decision in this matter. Then an attempt is made to rejoice over the small thing that is positive in the setting. A robust majority of the Committee also expresses the willingness to increase the support for adoption. The Workers' Party proposes a stepping-up plan in connection with the revision to spring, while the Government refers to the Sem Declaration, which says that adoption support should be lifted during this period. However, it is still as uncertain as before when this increase comes, and how much increase the Government may consider proposing. The increase proposed by SV — up to 1 G — will not give the very large financial outlays to the state budget, but would mean much to many who want to adopt children from abroad but who today refuse because it is very expensive. In this case, the government parties had the opportunity to make proposals to follow up the Sem declaration, but they have not taken this opportunity. Finally, I would like to promote the proposal that SV has with the Central Party. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that if this proposal were to fall, the SV will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e243	The representative Sigbjørn Molvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e246	When we promoted this proposal last spring, about eleven months ago, there was no support for assisted conception, and it was a support for adoption from abroad around the level we have today. In the context of the review of the revised national budget last spring, a system was put in place for those who want to try assisted fertilisation. We are well pleased with the scheme, especially because it was also given retroactive effect, as we pointed out during the budgetary procedure six months before this – that people should not be placed in such a situation that they also felt directly deceived, alongside the fact that they had no help in trying to obtain assisted fertilisation. It is about 80,000 couples who are involuntarily childless in Norway. For these, it means that there is some incentive and some support schemes, so that starting a family with children can be somewhat easier. We believe, as proposers, that there are several reasons why there should be support for adoption from abroad. It is gratifying to note that the Minister for Children and Family also says that adoption is a good and proper way to set up a family. At the same time, we have some international conventions that say that taking care of and helping children who cannot get help from their own family and in their own country is important. These two things seem to us to be coordinated, so that we can follow this in practice, as the Sem Declaration also states, but, as I think, the government parties are sadly not taking into account, because there is a lack of follow-up here today. We have had a desire to set both of these support schemes to 1 G, but it was a starting point that meant that there was no support for assisted fertilisation. That aid is currently a one-off instalment of NOK 18 000, and as such it is more favourable. By putting the aid for adoption from abroad at 1 G, which is currently worth more than 54,000 kroner, it is clear that the proportion of the foreign adoption is not very close to that. We still believe that this is a step in the right direction. We believe that there should be a support set at a predictable and regular sum and that 1 G is the right target for this support. That is why we have also said that this should be phased in from 1 January 2004, and adopted and included in the 2004 State budget. Unfortunately, support for this is poor. It's just the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party proposing it. I remember that in the budget position last autumn the Workers' Party also said that we should have a stepping up of adoption aid to 1 G, and now we had an opportunity to do so from next year's budget. At the same time, I think that there is very little follow-up to the Sem Declaration of the Government Parties, and that the Progress Party is almost absent from indicating the level of support for adoption from abroad. I think it's a pleasure with the verbal and general support the proposal to increase support for adoption from abroad gets, but it's a shame you don't follow up any more, so we had a concrete majority proposal here. Then those who are now adopting would have had a little more predictable and affordable conditions for adoption. The case's rapporteur, Magnar Aarøen from the Christian People's Party, said that the matter is so important that it deserves to be dealt with by the Government before a final decision is taken. I think that this matter, which has been in Stortinget for almost a year, has also been the subject of government parties. The case is not just ‘as important’, but it is very important for many of the 80,000 involuntary childless couples we have in Norway. I hope that the government will at least follow up and come up with clear and good arrangements in the state budget for the autumn, so that at least you can get very close to 1 G. The Government’s proposal should preferably be 1 G from 1 January 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e265	It's very important to say that being able to adopt children from abroad is an equivalent way of having children. More have been involved in this debate. Many children will be better off by being adopted to Norway and having access to safe breeding conditions. It is unthinkable that it is the economy of parents who often decide whether they can adopt children. For this reason, the Left in its pot options program has said that the wish is to escalate it up to 1 G. We have also been given an insight into this in the Sem Declaration. In 1997, adoption from abroad was supported by NOK 15 000. The aid was in 2001-2002 worth NOK 22 500, so it is now up to NOK 23 400. It shows that the Left has been leveraged to increase this support. Several say that this should happen quickly. For the Left, it's important to say that we've had a positive impact on the Government for an increase. We will continue to work for that, but one must also see this in conjunction with other good wishes and other expenditure on the state budget. Therefore, I am very pleased that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party in the Committee have asked the Government to come back to the Stortinge with a matter of this. I hope then that the Government will follow up and create a mandatory escalating plan for this support in order to achieve equal treatment. But I want to say that even though the Left is in agreement with the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party in escalating towards 1 G and has expressed it in their election program, this matter must also be seen in conjunction with other expenses and other good things that a person wants to get through to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e276	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2581]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e292	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes to each of the other parties. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e299	The Dent-O-Sept scandal became an unpleasant and serious matter for the Norwegian health service. As a result of the Dent-O-Sept case, during the spring of 2002, Norwegian patients received many requests from relatives and patients for replacement after the use of the Dent-O-Sept oral brush. These events led to ambiguities and were perceived as unfair. This includes, inter alia: the basis for the proposals made by the proposers in Document No. 8:1 to ask the Government to submit a proposal for amendments to Law No. 15 June 200l. 53 on the replacement of patients, etc., so that it can be replaced by what we call torture and pangs. The entire Committee refers to the statement made by Minister of Health Dagfinn Høybråten to the Stortinget on 25 April 2002. The Health Minister stressed the need to strengthen the supervision of medical device manufacturers. Of course, the Committee continues to agree to this and assumes that this work will be followed up. Proposals have stressed the need for healthcare institutions to have a separate responsibility for the fact that the facilities used in the treatment and care of patients do not provide for the possibility of transmitting infection to patients. In his statement to the Stortinget on 25 April 2002, the Minister of Health stated that he would include the Food Safety Authority in the obligation to notify medical devices errors. This is in agreement with the Committee as a whole, and we assume that this work will be followed up, as we perceive the intentions of the proposers in Document No. 8:1. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre, which unfortunately in this case do not constitute the majority of the population, are concerned with the concept of ‘tort and pruning’. We believe that anyone who is subjected to a treatment that is both stressful and unfair, such as this. The victims in the Dent-O-Sept case feel, have a claim for some kind of compensation – just for what we call torture and pangs. The feeling that it is unfair and that such a heavy burden is not taken seriously is what the majority of the committee wants to take into account. The majority of the committee, to which I have referred, believes that this is a matter which has revealed the need to provide compensation in specific cases. We believe, as it is clear from the case, that there is reason to consider whether the Patient Damage Act should allow for the possibility of concluding an agreement to compensate for Tort and Sweep on the basis of similar criteria as for the lavish compensation scheme of the Storting. We believe that NOK 5000 is a small amount, and we want this limit to be assessed – and set at a higher level. On this basis, we have promoted our proposals. We also want the Government to assess an extension of the temporary compensation scheme for patients so that it can be compensated for torture and pangs also for those who have suffered injury using Dent-O-Sept. The rest of the committee, which is then the majority of the Storting, believes that compensation for torture and pangs or restitution claims does not appear to fit into the patient injury law. I'm assuming that they themselves explain their positions. I would recommend the Committee's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e322	It is a comprehensive and difficult question raised in this Document No. The 8th proposal, based on the so-called Dent-O-Sept case. As regards the follow-up to this case, as the rapporteur also did, I would like to refer to the statement made earlier by the Minister of Health in Stortingen on this matter. The majority of the Committee would like the Government to consider extending the Patient Injury Act to compensate for torture and prie on the basis of criteria similar to those of the Grand Duchy’s lavish compensation scheme. In practice, economies of scale have crystallised two main conditions: that the applicant has come out particularly unfortunate in relation to others in the same situation, or that the public is blasphemy. Essentially, the system of compensation for patients will cover those conditions that could compensate under the Storting's own scheme. In addition to the general liability, the current patient compensation scheme includes an increased carelessness for failure, for example: in the case of performance, a purely objective liability in certain areas and a general rule of reasonableness. As a result, the scheme provides compensation in addition to the general scheme for compensation. This means that the person who is injured as a patient is more secure than those who are injured in society. However, the system is limited, as a second right of compensation, to compensate for financial loss and to replace it for lasting but lasting damage. It also contains reasonableness. Although the conditions under the general rule are not met, compensation may be granted after a reasonable assessment if the damage is particularly large or unexpected and is not a risk to the patient must be accepted. The discretionary theme of the humidity compensation scheme is a completely different one from that of the patient injury law. The conditions of this scheme are so transparent that if health care does not have the desired effect, it may in itself give hope of maintaining a claim for compensation after cheapness. Proposal II of document No 8:1 involves considering a separate compensation scheme for the victims in the Dent-O-Sept case. Those concerned in the case are being considered today following the interim patient injury regime. This means that the patient is compensated for: 1. there is a causal link between the use of Dent-O-Sept and the damage, and 2. they have suffered a financial loss or have suffered a lasting loss. If you were to deviate from these requirements, it would mean that the Dent-O-Sept touch would come out better than patients in the same situation. This in turn means that patients who are affected by a problem affecting many will come out better, whereas individual patients who experience the same situation and who feel exactly the same way will receive a different treatment. This will, in our opinion, be contrary to the normal sense of law. Some of the purpose of the Grand Stortinge’s cheap compensation scheme must be that there is a design designed to protect individuals or groups who have suffered from social disadvantages, but where the general legal system does not capture the situation. There will therefore be something special to anchor similar arrangements in the ordinary law. I am afraid that the proposal by the minority here in the Chamber will in reality lead to what is termed "American states" in the right to compensation, where conditions alongside economic losses and lasting but more strongly emphasised. In such a system, the limits between the consequences of an injury during treatment and, for example: failure of the expected results of the treatment liquid. It's a development and a priority of public health that I don't want. There is reason for a critical review of Norwegian Patient Injury Compensation, but it must be based on a broader basis than Document No. The 8's do. I would like to take up with this the proposal of the minority of the committee, which is the majority in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e348	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e351	I'm sorry that the social committee has not succeeded in getting a majority to compensate for torture and pangs for a number of patients who were infected and seriously subjected to sepsis by the Dent-O-Sept brush. However, it is positive that the Committee has the power to pool itself on a unanimous proposal to ask the Government to present during the autumn of 2003 an overall review of Norwegian Patient Injury Compensation, and on how the compensation scheme has worked in the event of birth injuries and in the event of damage to the Dent-O-Sept case and similar cases. The use of the usterile mouthbrush Dent-O-Sept has caused perhaps several hundred patients in Norwegian hospitals severe sepsis, and it must be assumed that poor patients during intensive treatment in public hospitals have also died of the sepsis they were subjected to, without such evidence. The extensive Dent-O-Sept infection is perhaps one of the biggest scandals in the Norwegian health care system in recent times for which neither the state nor hospitals will take responsibility. I am pleased that a joint committee in its comments points out that healthcare institutions must have a separate responsibility for the fact that the tools used in the treatment and care of patients do not provide the possibility of transmitting infection to patients. It is tragic, however, that despite this opinion, the majority of the Committee does not take responsibility and ensures that the Dent-O-Sept infected patients receive reasonable compensation for the torture and plight of the public. Only the Workers' Party and the Advance Party promote proposals to compensate for torture and pangs for those patients who have been in a life-threatening situation with severe sepsis. Providing a patient who twice in a public hospital was charged with sepsis using the Dent-O-Sept brush NOK 5000 in compensation, is not only ridiculous, but directly contempt for the legal opinion of ordinary people. The fact that the patient injury law and Norwegian compensation law do not provide for this type of compensation for torture and pangs should not prevent the majority of the committee from agreeing to an exceptional scheme, for example, by recommending cheap compensation. This has been done before. In this connection, I recall the compensation that was awarded individually in relation to those who lobotomized a few years back in time. The Progress Party will come back to the case when the Government provides an overview of the overall situation and extent of the Dent-O-Sept scandal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e362	SV is concerned that a full review of Norwegian Patient Injury Compensation should be carried out and looks at the functioning of the compensation scheme today. We proposed it in the context of the 2003 State Budget, and a majority agreed to it, insisting that such a review should be carried out. Now there is also a unanimous committee asking the Government to come back with a review by the autumn of 2003, and we are pleased about that. However, as far as the specific proposal is concerned, it is not in line with what we think. In our view, there are several examples that Norsk Patient Damage Compensation does not work after the intention, and those examples we believe require a review. There are also several examples of the use of the Dent-O-Sept oral brush that can make it visible that Norwegian Patient Compensation may at least not work as it should. But going to the step of saying that a special group is going to be treated in a separate way and on the basis of exceptional provisions, we fundamentally disagree. I have been missing several examples of birth injuries where you can see that it may have taken a very long time before the matter has been dealt with. In a case that I know of, there was no support for Norwegian patient damages, on which the case was won in a civil court, and then it was appealed by Norwegian patient damages to a higher court. In my view, such examples give cause for reflection. Because if Norwegian patient damages become a counterparty that you have to fight against, instead of a co-player from whom you can get help if you feel that yourself or your loved one has suffered from medical abuse, it's a concern. Similarly, you might say about the Dent-O-Sept case. But it can't be that because you get a special case with a lot of people who have become victims of infection, you have to treat it in a very special way, as opposed to other similar cases. It may not be worthy of the rule of law of Norway. In the SV's view, it must be such that similar cases are treated equally. The way in which best care is taken is precisely by looking at the entire Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation together, getting the Government’s assessment of it and then inviting the Stortinget to decide, on the basis of that assessment, whether there are parts of the scheme that should be amended. Then, of course, it should be changed in such a way that if other cases appear, if only individual cases, then of course you have to have exactly the same right to have your case assessed on equal terms as, for example, the victims of the Dent-O-Sept case. As I see it as the proposers, they do not suggest that similar cases should be treated equally, which violates normal Norwegian case-law. Otherwise, I would say that it is the Stortinget itself who has set a lower limit of NOK 5000 by replacing Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation, while the Government in its time suggested that that limit should be higher. One consequence of this is that part of the victims of the Dent-O-Sept case is getting the lower amount of compensation, while they would not otherwise have reached a ceiling that had been higher, and as alternative would not have been replaced at all. Therefore, when some criticise the amount of NOK 5000, they should have considered that it was actually the Stortinget that determined the amount of the previous review of Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation. SV would like to come back with an assessment of the consequences of the cases that have been raised with regard to possible changes to the legislation on Norwegian Patient Injury Compensation, when an assessment by the Government in autumn 2003 is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e377	A year has passed since the Dent-O-Sept scandal shook Health-Norway. Most of us didn't think that a situation of that kind and of such magnitude could occur without it being discovered at an earlier time. The Minister for Health announced a review of several procedures, internal controls, reporting procedures and better supervision to prevent any similar happening again. The Christian People's Party is satisfied with the follow-up that the Minister of Health has carried out in this particular case. We now expect hospitals to have better arrangements for recording, reporting, analysing and reporting hospital infections. This is particularly the case for intensive care units where transmission is most likely to occur. The Christian People's Party agreed that Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation was a good arrangement to meet patients' needs in the Dent-O-Sept case. This compensation scheme makes it easier for the patient to obtain health care compensation than is the norm in the right to compensation. In the general law on compensation, the general rule is that there must be liability. The Patient Damage Act is based on objective liability. The Christian People's Party, like the majority, believes that compensation for torture and renunciation does not fit into the patient injury law. We refer to the letter of 1 October 2002 from the Ministry, which says: ‘In the case of rescheduling requirements, the Ministry considers, inter alia, that the nature of those requirements is such as to prevent their being promoted under the patient injury regime...’;» We support the presentation by the Government during the autumn of the results of a comprehensive review of Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation, as requested in the context of the year's budget. The review will include an assessment of the functioning of the compensation scheme in the event of birth defects, in the Dent-O-Sept case and in similar cases. On that basis, we propose that Document No. The 8th proposal shall be annexed to the minutes. I understand that it may seem unreasonable that one today does not receive more than NOK 5000 after such a suffering. But I would point out that it was the sum of the Storting agreed a short time ago. Should a deviation from the requirement only for the Dent-O-Sept-affected, these will come out better than other patients in a similar situation. It may not be right that because more people are affected, it must be assessed differently than if only individuals are affected. This is contrary to the general sense of justice and justice. There is currently a cheap substitute scheme set up by the Stortinget. Here, any search that believes that they have come out particularly unfortunate in relation to others in the same situation. This plan is based more on judgement than the other compensation schemes are. The Christian People's Party believes that this scheme can cover much of the problem as Document No. The 8-proposal for demand. On this basis, we support the Committee's recommendation to Decision I, but we vote against the vote against Decisions II and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e401	About a year ago, very many enquiries were made about the Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation Dent-O-Sept case. But also in other contexts, there have been many enquiries regarding the patient compensation scheme. We believe – as we thought at the autumn budgetary procedure – that the entire scheme should be reviewed and presented to the Stortinget, so that one could have the opportunity to come back and assess Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation. There is a whole committee asking for it, and I expect that during the autumn there will be occasion for it. Otherwise, I will try – since we have a lot of things today – to briefly review which proposals the Centre Party is involved in this matter. The representative Alvheim said that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party are proposing to look at the possibility of providing compensation for torture and prie on the basis of similar criteria as for the lavish compensation scheme of the Storting in the case of patients' injuries. That proposal is also supported by the Central Party. We believe that the Dent-O-Sept case, among others. have shown that there are a number of problems and problems that make it appropriate to be compensated — perhaps in addition to what the patient compensation scheme provides per year. today. That is why we want to go through the Patient Damage Act and look at the possibility of extending it in cases where injuries, disadvantages and stress are extra large. The representative of the Socialist Left Party says here today that this can give the victims of the Dent-O-Sept scandal a special treatment. I don't agree with that. The Dent-O-Sept case showed that large groups can suffer major injuries and suffering. Therefore, one should have such a review as a general request here. In my opinion, what is left under the proposal for Decision III concerning the Dent-O-Sept victims is first and foremost that a compensation scheme should be given a form of retroactive effect to this large group. I agree otherwise that matters of an equal character must be treated equally, so there are no questions about picking out one particular group here. But this shows that there is a need for a broader assessment than what has been done and that there is perhaps an opportunity to do within the patient compensation scheme, as we have it today. I refer to the proposals on which the Central Party is party and will vote in favour of the vote on the motion for a resolution on Decisions I, II and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e414	I am, like the proposers, concerned that we in Norway should have a system of compensation for patient injuries that provides compensation where there is a basis for it and that seems fair. Similarly, I am concerned that after the Dent-O-Sept case, it has to be ensured that the like does not happen again, and that those who are entitled to compensation get it. I have taken responsibility for the follow-up to this case, in line with the statement I gave to Stortinget, and I have recently reported to Stortinget in the budget papers about how I have followed up this. We have received from New Year's Eve a new law on patients' injuries to replace the temporary scheme. The Patient Damage Act is based on the temporary compensation scheme that has been in operation since 1 January 1988. The scheme is based on so-called objective liability. In this context, there is an extended responsibility in relation to what is otherwise the result of Norwegian replacement law, thus strengthening the protection of patients in the event of replacement law. Under the general right to compensation, negligence, or guilt, arising from damages is required for the purpose of establishing the basis for compensation. According to the Patient Injury Act, it is not necessary to prove that someone in the healthcare system can be molestered for the damage to be done, in order to be compensated. In addition, compensation may exceptionally be provided under a reasonable rule where a patient injury has occurred which is particularly large or unexpected and which cannot be considered as a risk to the patient to be accepted. The prior information provided shall be weighted. Furthermore, it is an objective responsibility that is reflected in unexplained responsibilities. If the cause of injury is not apparent and the damage is likely to be due to external effects on a patient during treatment, it should normally be assumed that the injury is due to failure or failure to perform the health care. By providing compensation for claims for more than the general right to compensation, the system facilitates compensation than would normally result in. It is clarified in the preparatory work of the Patient Injury Act that the threshold for establishing responsibilities must be set at a level that is too low than too high. The Patient Damage Act follows the principle of Norwegian compensation law to compensate for financial loss. The injured person shall be treated as if the damage had not occurred. Compensation may also be required for non-economic losses, but substitution. However, compensation may be required if the injured party has been subject to permanent medical invalidity. It shall compensate for the loss of life caused by disability. Victims can use the money to buy experiences that can to some extent compensate for the physical development of life that is no longer possible. In the present proposal, the representatives Alvheim and Nesvik have put forward proposals for changes to the law to allow the NPE to compensate for torture and pangs. It is unclear what the conditions for such replacement are for the proposers to think, but I assume that the representatives with «remuneration for torture and porridge» or «reparation» mean compensation for non-economic losses in addition to human compensation. As I have informed Stortinget in a letter dated 1 October last year, I would not recommend that compensation be introduced for torture and pangs in the Patient Damage Act. The reason for the rescheduling requirements for Norwegian law tort and piercing is that the rescheduling should act as a penalty in relation to a deliberate and gross negligent act. It shall give an economic taste to the perpetrator who has acted intentionally or grossly negligently. This is not appropriate within the specific replacement system provided by the patient injury mechanism. In particular, in order to ensure that matters are informed as well as possible, and thus that patients receive the compensation they are entitled to, there is no absolute requirement to prove blame in the healthcare system for compensation. If one were to put in place a system where there is a need to prove guilt, this would undermine such an approach. Furthermore, if one introduced a system that focused on serious blame in health professionals, it would make it difficult and delay the claims. The fact that guilt is not a topic increases the possibility of getting faster and better information on matters. In addition, the Patient Injury Act does not prevent injured parties from claiming compensation under general compensation rules but then outside the patient injury system. I have noticed that the majority of the social committee subscribes to this assessment and therefore rejects the proposal to take torture and injure into the patient injury law. The majority has asked for an evaluation of Norwegian Patient Injury Compensation. The Ministry of Health has asked State Consultant to carry out this evaluation. In addition to the fact that the mandate for the evaluation includes focusing on the service given to patients at NPE, the understanding of the legislation used by NPE during its proceedings shall be examined. Here it could be natural to focus on some of the case types that have been discussed in the public debate. We should now use the resources to bring the Patient Damage Act into force, as the Stortinget has recently adopted it. When the results of the evaluation are available, I will return to Stortingen with a review of the scheme. I will give a response to the Storting in the fall, as a unanimous committee asks.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e448	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2582]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e464	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e471	The proposers of Document No. 8:36 wants the future structure of AMK centres in Norway to be addressed in the Stortinget. It is a fact that after the state acquisition of hospitals there are structural changes planned in the five health regions. This may lead to a reduction in the number of AMK centres. The Committee wishes to refer to letters from the Minister of Health dated 30 January of this year. The message has been reproduced in the configuration dialog. The majority of the Committee agrees with the health minister’s assessments and adopts the same views as the Minister for Health. If questions are raised more in principle in relation to the structure of the AMK centres, the matter will be reviewed. This is what the majority wants to deal with. In the same letter from the Minister of Health, reference is made to the governance document of regional health enterprises, and the majority of the Committee wants to take this for information. The majority, all except SV and the Centre Party, believe that there is reason to recall that, following the adoption of the hospital reform, the government of regional health companies has assumed responsibility for the organisation and operation of the specialist health service, including the responsibility of the AMK centres. The majority agree with the Minister of Health that there is currently no reason to intervene in the restructuring of the AMK centres by enterprises. With this in mind, the majority would like to reject the proposal in Document No. 8:36.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e488	As a direct and desired result of the hospital reform, the AMK centres are now reduced from 44 to 13. This is entirely in line with what a majority in the Social Committee, namely the Labour Party, the Right and the Progress Party, wanted and promoted proposals on in the Inner East. S. No 300 for 2000-2001 for the emergency message. The majority pointed out at the time that the high number of AMK centres used at the time were cost-intensive and large health resources that could have been used in another way. The majority concluded at that time that there should be enough of one AMK centre in each state. Now the number of AMK centres is suggested to 13. From the Progress Party we could have done with five AMK centres – one in each health region. In principle, it is also true that health businesses, which are now responsible for the AMK centres, have to decide for themselves how many such centres should be handled. The present proposal by the representatives of the SV and the Central Party cannot be interpreted in any other way than an attempt to repel the corporate reform which makes it clear that these representatives and their parties do not accept the fact that the specialist health service is now out of political detail management. It would be pointless for the Storting to go in and have some sense of how many AMK centres you should have, and where – in case – these should be located. The AMK centres are not a district policy instrument, but on the contrary an emergency medical device for patients that should be as effective as possible at least cost, to save lives and provide rapid treatment. I am very pleased, on behalf of the Progress Party, that the majority of the Committee rejects the proposal quite in cash.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e499	I was signed in the autumn of 1994 at Stortinget as second alternate for Finnmark, and I was sitting here in October 1994 listening to a debate that just went to medical emergency centres. What I remember is that several representatives from several parties called for more local adjustments to be made, and that in some municipalities it should have been possible, for example. with emergency reporting centre(s). I remember that the state council that answered that time was Gunnar Berge, and that he disagreed with it. It says quite a bit about the development that has since been: From discussing whether individual municipalities should have that kind of emergency centres, we are now discussing whether it should not be less than one in each state. This means that the attitude towards these types of centres has changed quite radically in the almost ten years that have passed. When we take this up in SV, it is because we from different counties – one is my own – have been given signals that the process that is now taking place is perceived as unlucky. It goes on – if I now use Finnmark as an example – that when there are 600 km between two hospitals, it is a point also purely medical to have an AMK-centre at each of those two hospitals. Similar arguments have been received from different counties in other parts of the country. What you can discuss and problematize is the extent to which local knowledge has real significance for the evacuation of an ambulance vehicle and for bringing the patient safely from where you call for an ambulance and a hospital. I record that a majority believes it has little meaning. It may be that the maps have now become so detailed and the technology has become so good that it is no longer necessary. Me and SV disagree with such an assessment. It simply goes without saying that often it is not just calling on the vehicle that matters, but talking to the ambulance staff on site when they are going to stabilize the patient, perhaps talking to other personnel that the hospital will know well if the landing is not too large. These are transportation to hospitals and en route instructions. After a while, we see that new technology is being used, where we have monitoring of the patient that allows you to look at the hospital at the ECG, i.e., the heart rate, and where the technology being introduced also has ring-effects all the way into the hospital. This means that, as you develop this technology, it uses it and makes it more district-oriented, it can be recruiting, possibly not recruiting, to different hospital environments, depending on whether you also have that kind of professional environment in the hospital. Then you can discuss whether it is detail management that the Storting should have views on how this structure should be. The size has already had views on this in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 43 for 1999-2000. But in SV, we don't see this as detail management, just as we don't see it as detail management either, that Storting should have views on how medical preparedness in general should be in both internal medicine and surgery. It's about how we're going to develop a comprehensive health care service for the population that has a distribution that creates equivalent offers. And I have to say I'm quite surprised at how far some people – I think especially of the committee leader in his post – are willing to go in terms of saying that the Storting has nothing to do with some of these questions, because you have. It is clear that when this becomes a concern of the population, it will not be satisfactory that the only people to whom they should be able to address are the directors of the individual health business. It must also be possible for the Storting to have views and to be able to deal with further developments in the emergency services. SV will insist that there will be individual states where it makes sense that you have more than one such central. The counties are so different both geographically and across the population that it must be possible to make adjustments and have a structure that, if the distance is large, more than one hospital in each state must have that type of service.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e514	The Christian People's Party assumes that regional health professionals have been given responsibility for the structure of AMK centres. We will stress very clearly and clearly that restructuring should increase the safety of the emergency chain, not reduce it. The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party view the handling of St.meld. No 43 for 1999-2000, the emergency message, and the Innst. S. No 300 for 2000-2001. What it says when it applies to these points, I'd like to quote. It says that these parties, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, underlined that ‘number of AMK centres and their structure had to be seen in the context, inter alia. with local knowledge, in particular where there is a high distance between hospitals, and the rapid and immediate possibility of alerting and communication between the various emergency services for proper referral and need for coordination.’;» What it says, we in the Christian People's Party are quite a few in, and we have argued that all the changes that are being made have in the center an increase in quality, not a decrease. We also refer to the plural comments that we're in. I believe that the organisation of the service needs to take care that the population of parts of the country is scattered, and that there are many places where there is a long distance from specialised health services. It is important for healthcare professionals to listen to Stortinget and Stortinget’s comments. They can then avoid some unfortunate circumstances that make politicians feel the need to intervene with them. Of course, it should be a formal process, but health professionals must also have the right to listen to political signals without breaking the formal procedures. The Health Minister has said that if questions are raised of a more fundamental and decisive nature, he will reconsider the matter, and I agree with him. The responsibilities and management of the AMK centres have health professionals, and I suggested that they take note of what has been said and written. I also argued that they took note of the leaders and comments that we have and are in political documents. The quality is supposed to be up and down. The installation of the representative Ballo illustrated in a good way how fast technical progress is progressing. Some of us perpetuate difficulties in following with and at any time assessing the correct technical solutions. And then we have one thing left, and that's to make demands on quality and security, so that distances and systems don't get so bad that they're safe. It is also important that people experience and feel that security is being preserved in a fully satisfactory way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e532	The President is not quite sure whether Olav Gunnar Ballo addressed the proposal on which the Socialist Left and the Central Party are united. In order to be absolutely sure, the President proposes that the representative, Mr Glötvold, address the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e535	I can start with it. I agree that the Government will present a future structure for the AMK centres in Norway, so that we can deal with the structural changes that are taking place. I then take up the proposal put forward by the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. When SV takes this into account in its Document No. 8 proposals, we think it's right to get such an assessment. It should be such that we can set the quality requirements and safety requirements that you want to apply to the emergency medical communications service. I believe that the starting point for all of us is that all AMK centres should have a good professional and competent crew. There's no doubt about it. At the same time, there are other criteria here, which also need to be emphasised. Among other things, it was said in connection with the treatment of St. report. No 43 for 2000-2001 in the spring of 2001, the so-called emergency message – among others: The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party underlined this by seeing the relationship with local knowledge, especially where there were large distances between hospitals – that there was also a need for rapid and safe alerting and communication between the various emergency services, for proper referral and need for coordination. Furthermore, during the processing of the emergency message, it was emphasised that good and continuous contact with local medical services and ambulance services was important. We have examples of centrals sending ambulances to the right address, but in the wrong city! I think local knowledge is very important for this to happen correctly and as quickly as possible. That is why we believe that we need to see the AMK centres and the structure they should have, in a broader context, for example. interacting with the primary and outpatient health services. When we bring this up, it's for example. Given the large number of AMK centres we've had, now it's about to be reduced to 13. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it should be only five. We believe that it is too large regional coverage areas and that there will be irresponsiblely large districts. It also has to do with the competence that should be at part of our hospitals around the country. When we are concerned about the structure and offer and deal with this, we usually get in response from those who disagree with us, that this is a rematch in the field of health enterprise establishment, and that it is a detailed management, primarily from those who were very representatives of the health reform. But I think it's very unfair to use at least that argument against this. There will be more of a kind of rule technique from our opponents than a real debate on the substance of the matter and the realities that are addressed in this context. I think the Storting must take responsibility. We have overall responsibility for the health service. We should then be able to show that responsibility that we are assuming, and we should be able to address issues that we are concerned about when it comes to developments in relation to, for example: structure, offer and quality. The health companies have been given this responsibility, and we should not interfere in it. I believe, however, that it is a clear responsibility for the Biggest and Biggest parties to interfere in it if one disagrees with the developments that are taking place.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e552	The contributions of the representative Ola D. Glötvold made me take the floor to say something more in principle about governance in this important area of society. In the governance paper of regional health companies, we have asked for a review of the organisation of the entire emergency medical chain, based on Stortingen’s treatment of emergency messages. This also applies to the organisation of AMK centres. The review shall take place in the light of planned structural measures and changes in the division of tasks in each region. This work has come a long way in the five regions. In some places investigations are ongoing, while in others there are proposals for changes. Where studies are available, there are now processes of consultation and further concreteisation of the proposals based on existing technical reports. The Health Business Act states that matters of substantial or fundamental importance are to be dealt with at the business meeting. Many of the proposals currently being drawn up in regional health establishments are of such a nature that they are to be dealt with in business meetings. Such treatment will take place when the boards of regional health establishments have taken their decisions on these matters. It is of course a premise that the changes that are finally being implemented are in line with the leadership that the Stortinget has previously given. I would like to brief the Storting more closely through a review of the ongoing processes and the future annual reporting system in the revised national budget this spring, and through a broad review and assessment of the status and plans for the future in the context of St.prp. No 1 for the autumn. In my opinion, there is a lot of evidence that there are plans to reduce the number of AMK centres receiving 113 calls, both beneficial and sensible. It is my opinion that it is also in line with professional recommendations, recommendations in the emergency notice and the previous majority comment from Stortinget in connection with the suspension of emergency medical preparedness. But for my part, I want to follow developments in this area too to make sure that it will continue to be so.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e567	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e583	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there will be no repetition of the individual statements. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e592	The proposal in Document No. 8:37 from the Landfill Representatives Ola D. Glötvold, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and Rune J. Küllaaen ask the Government to postpone any change to the regulations governing practice in the outsourcing of pre-treated patients in hospitals. The proposers find it unacceptable that, in the event of a regulatory change, the Government introduces a practice which directly affects other statutory tasks in the municipalities, and believe that the amendment of that regulation should, where appropriate, be carried out in cooperation with the Municipal Councils. In short, the amendment of the regulation reduces the deadline for alerting hospital discharges to municipalities, a significant increase in the amount of daily allowance and a change in the concept of pre-treated patients to ready-to-print patients. A majority of the Committee, the representatives of the Government Parties, the Labour Party and the Progress Party formally reject the proposal on the basis of the fact that the regulatory changes have already been introduced and that the majority find no reason to reverse it. A unanimous committee expresses the following in the setting: ‘However, shorter hospital stays mean, in the opinion of the Committee, that the ready-to-print patients need more intensive treatment, care and rehabilitation that many municipalities have problems following, in particular due to the lack of hospital coverage.’ I assume that the other parties present their views on the proposal in Document No. 8:37. From the point of view of the Progress Party, I would like to point out that the hospital reform has led so far to a significant cut in the waiting lists and in the waiting time for the individual patient. As a natural consequence, there has been a reduction in bedtime, leading to the continued need for intensive treatment and care, especially in the older age groups, but at a lower medical level. Lack of health care coverage, both now and in the future, causes municipalities to have major problems in caring for these patients in a medically sound manner. From a professional point of view, the nursing homes are also weak, as the staff is very low, approx. one year’s work per year. 170 patients, and an excessive number of nurses' positions are unoccupied in the public hospitals. This case raises a problem for the majority in this room, who have both gone against the construction of several hospitals and have also gone against a fixed norm of care factors in our public hospitals. As the Progress Party sees it, it is now appropriate to consider the establishment of a two-way service, possibly by the establishment of several hospitals, or the conversion of some local hospitals into a close-up hospital. This is in order to provide better patients with ready-to-write and to provide opportunities for pre-hospital observation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e612	What this is all about, I think, is going to be an increasing problem in time. The location of the Norwegian hospital is going down, as the case-rapporteur said, and there is a lot of evidence that it will continue to do so. This is not only because medical treatments improve, but it is mainly because hospitals want to free up room to receive new patients for treatment. Initially, SV believes that a well-functioning healthcare system should be such that patients are treated at what is at all times the right level. There is no reason for patients who can receive good and safe treatment outside the hospital, for example. in a hospital, shall occupy a hospital. This will in most cases be a win-win situation: the patient will be able to get good treatment closer to where the patient lives, and society will be able to use the savings of resources for other patients who need hospitalisation. However, such a situation requires a well-functioning primary health service with both the capacity and the competence to provide well-treatment, care and care to outsourced patients. Unfortunately, this is not always the case in Norwegian municipalities. We have several times here in this room, at the latest last week, debated the state of care in the municipalities. Here it is done a lot of good work, and many get a good and worth offer, but unfortunately far from all. The action plan for the care of the elderly helped to give a boost to those in need of care, especially in the case of buildings and the standard there. But much remains to be done, primarily in getting enough people into the professions, and on getting even more and better skills, good management and good organisation. As developments now turn out, more patients will have shorter hospital laytime. These patients will increasingly need more intensive and complex treatment and care. Primary health services in municipalities are not always equipped to meet this challenge. Therefore, starting at wrong ends up raising the fines and daily payments for municipalities that are unable to accept ready-to-write patients in time. Then we add up to a black player game that primarily hits the weakest part of this, the patient. In addition, a multiplicity system, as envisaged, will make the municipal economy even less accessible and weaken the ability of the municipalities concerned to establish a satisfactory primary health service, which is able to receive patients from hospitals, patients who are becoming more and more ill. The hospitals, on the other hand, are sitting with the bay and both ends, as it is the hospitals that define the time of discharge when a patient is healthy enough to be discharged. What needs to be done now is a strong upgrading of the municipal economy and primary health services in such a way that patients are better cared for. This must be done in cooperation between municipalities and health enterprises, and not so that municipalities and health enterprises come into conflict with each other, where one party defines the rules of the game. One way to do this may be the so-called one-half-line service, where municipalities and healthcare companies, in cooperation, establish good services for patients who are outsourced from hospitals but still have an extensive need for treatment and care. Reference may be made to several such projects which are in progress or which are on the stairs. The government, by the Minister of Health, must have a clear responsibility to ensure that this cooperation between municipalities and health businesses is established, not just as scattered individual projects, but as a rule, for the benefit of patients throughout the country. Together with the Centre Party, SV has made a proposal to clarify the allocation of responsibilities and the need for resources related to the outsourcing of patients from hospitals, where these two parties also ask the Government to strengthen the financial and professional resources of the municipalities in order to meet the needs and safety of patients. I will address this proposal and at the same time inform you that if the proposal falls, which unfortunately seems to be the case, SV will vote against the vote by the majority, which will reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e633	The representative, Sigbjørn Molvik, has taken up the proposal he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e636	The Christian People's Party mainly adheres to the rapporteur's statement. The main purpose of Document No The 8 proposal was to postpone any change to the regulation governing the practice of outsourcing pre-treated patients from hospitals. This wish has already been met, as a postponement of implementation from 1 October 2002 to 1 January 2003. The Ministry made several adjustments to the changes to the regulations in favour of the municipalities. Then it is strange that the Senterpartet and SV in their comments write the following: ‘These members record that the Government has put in place new regulations regarding the outsourcing of patients despite, inter alia, by: protests from the local government sector and the recommendations contained in this draft document.’;» The municipalities were heard! In view of the objections to an alert deadline of seven days from the Municipal Councils’ Central Associations, municipalities and other hearing bodies, this was met by setting the alert period to 10 days. A provision was also made that the hospital has a duty to make the municipality aware of when the hospital believes that a patient is ready to print. The Christian People's Party supports the Social Minister that the word "ready to write" is better than the word "ready to write". This expression is most comprehensive for most patients. They are usually not completed and need follow-up after leaving the health care establishment. In order to provide the patient with the best possible treatment, it is essential that first- and second-line services cooperate. Municipalities and hospitals can freely conclude good cooperation agreements. Shorter hospital laytime means that ready-to-print patients need more specialist expertise when they come home than before. This means that municipalities must have a conscious skills building of their professionals, whether they work in home care or in nursing homes. Better education of self-employed people leads to better quality of healthcare for the benefit of users. The Christian People's Party supports the use of daily metering. We believe it is right that the municipality pays for patients who are ready to print to the first line service, and yet remain in hospital. It must be an incentive for ready-to-print patients not to prevent new patients in need of medical or psychiatric assistance from receiving it. We are also positive in assessing the construction of so-called two-way services to ensure that the zone between the first and second line services is filled with quality and competence. Maybe it should be called near-sickness. That gives good associations. Document No The 8 proposal has changed to become a purely municipal economic matter. This was not the intention at first. The Christian People's Party shares the concern over a tight community economy and has all announced that it needs to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e663	Firstly, I would like to address what was said by the last speaker, the representative Woie Duesund of the Christian People's Party, that this matter has become a purely municipal economic matter and nothing else. That's not right at all! It is the consideration of patients, the soundness of transmission from a specialist medical institution and over to the primary level of healthcare, which is the most important thing here, a sense of responsibility which means that one must have resources, both professional, economic and also facilities, in order to be able to care for the patient after discharge. We see that printing practices are becoming increasingly tough, and I'm a little surprised that you're now saying that you absolutely defend that the previous concept of pre-treated patients is now to be replaced with ready-to-write patients. In my opinion, patients who are ready-to- print are patients who in many cases should have had a few more days in hospital. There are patients who need extra follow-up, tranquillity and medical treatment. I think that one of the challenges in this context is that the Storting finds opportunities for financial instruments that allow these patients to be slightly longer in hospitals than they have today. That's one of the main approaches. This applies, inter alia, to: many older people with complex disorders, who are treated only one problem each time they are in hospital, and thus end up in the group that can be called swing door spaces. The second main approach, which has become widely debated, is the need to have a stronger medical and therapeutic competence and to have more resources for this in the primary health service. We believe that the postponement that took place from October until the end of the year is not good enough. Our main concern in this regard was that the municipalities should be taken on board, that an agreement could be drawn up in cooperation with the Municipal Councils on behalf of the Norwegian municipalities, where the resource base was also to be clarified. What seems to be the case now, at least, is that there has been a system that does not take sufficient account of the economic need to provide resources both in terms of personnel and equipment, and not least in terms of space. We believe that several municipalities now need to organise a type of treatment and care facilities that go more to the hospital bed category. We also believe that there may be a need for inter-municipal cooperation to solve these tasks in the direction of the two-way service. In this context, I would like to comment that SV has a comment in the setting about this with the half-line service. We share these points of view, but the note contains references to specific hospitals, and we did not find that there was any reason to do so. But in general, we want more attempts to be made now, and resources to be allocated to the two-way service in line with what is stated in the SV's comment. I think it's strange that almost all the parties on the Stortinget now talk a lot about greater freedom and greater room for action for the municipalities and local self-government. At the same time, we feel that municipalities are being imposed on large, heavy tasks, such as this with a faster discharge of patients from the specialist health service, against their will, and almost against their ability. These patients need much more medical, treatment and care follow-up than the municipalities have provided. This is required without providing for any resource strength. There is no increase in the economy according to these increased tasks. Instead, the bulk of the population calls for even more fines to be used as a means of preventing patients being treated in an institution. We also agree that it should not happen that pre-treated patients should stay in institutions for a long time, but we disagree that fines should be used to weaken the municipal economy even more. This only proves that there has been too little communication between the country, the health companies and the municipality of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e680	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2582]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e700	Most countries are constantly looking for an effective and good system to finance their health services to their populations. So far, the perfect system is probably not invented, while the variation in systems ranges from one-sided frames to one-off price. One of the major challenges and a dilemma in health policy is the introduction of a funding system that combines the necessary budgetary control with good quality treatment and incentives for activity. Norwegian experience, as described in St.meld. No 24 for 1996-97, accessibility and professionalism, reads as follows: ‘Frame allocations have not provided sufficient incentives for higher activity in the health sector’. ‘... the fewer patients, the better the hospital economy.’ And it goes on to say: «The use of resources in Norwegian hospitals has increased by 7.9 per cent from 1992 to 1995 at constant prices». ‘Never have so many been in line for treatment, and never have so many interruptions to the waiting guarantee been recorded within the somatic area’. Since the introduction of a partial price and partial framework funding system in 1997, called ‘intervention-driven financing’ – ISF – we have seen a coherent reduction in queues on a national basis. ISF is based on the so-called DRG system, where we classify hospital stays into medical and resource-oriented groups. All DRGs have a cost weight that expresses the relative resource consumption of this patient group in relation to the mean space. This means that heavier patients with heavy cost weights pay higher payments to the hospital than patients with lighter diseases or diagnoses. This means that the coverage of hospitals for their patient treatment is mainly affected by three factors: number of hospital stays on average patient weight so-called unit price In principle, this is a kind of objective system that would give hospitals equal clearance for similar patients, but in practice hospitals may influence one of the above factors, namely patient weight calculation and reporting. The system assumes and is based on the fact that all hospitals closely follow the same ‘coding’, i.e. equal treatment results in equal counting. Once I've traveled this interpellation, it's because there have been examples that not everyone loyally follows this system, which in its being is really based on trust. From the introduction of the ISF system in Norway until the end of 2001, a so-called ‘cryp threshold’ was practised, which was in practice a cap to ensure that it was paid only for actual increase in activity and not for better or more creative registration of patient treatment. Without such a threshold, or thank you, a hospital could be better paid for treatment than they were entitled to. In this picture, too, it is understood that such registration or coding is not necessarily an exact science, which means that in a run-in phase, differences have to be calculated. An earlier budget paper said: ‘New information based on in-depth analysis of activity data for 2000 provides guidance to assume that a strategic adaptation of patient treatment to the crawling rules is increasingly taking place with a view to increasing ISF reimbursements. This strategic adjustment to increase revenue does not support health policy objectives and good resource use.’ Now it was also such that these crawling rules, or the roof, were a very bureaucratic and resource-intensive system. In addition, the scheme was too unforeseeable and in some cases did not adapt to the actual need for which patients should be treated. The idea of a simpler, more predictable and more patient-oriented system led to the removal of this ceiling in the 2002 budget proposal. It was also decided by Stortinget. It should be noted that the 2002 draft budget also stated: ‘If the DRG index develops significantly different from the one used in the proposal to remove the cryptography, this will be taken into account in subsequent budgetary proposals.’ This means that both the Minister of Health and the Stortinget should follow closely whether hospitals are somewhat equal and loyal to the rules. What we have seen from unusual registration and coding of patient weights is a strong warning, and gives cause for concern. I am therefore keen to hear the Minister of Health's assessment of whether the Department feels fairly confident that the rules and rules of the game are being followed in our hospital. If it turns out that it's being cheated, it's undermining a funding system that's supposed to reward healthy and good activity. Since our health care services share a common cake, it will secure more money than you are entitled to, eventually go beyond a proper distribution between our health care companies, and thus a proper distribution between patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e753	The representative, Kristoffersen, asks about what is being done to ensure that everyone follows the legislation in the practice of the effort-driven funding. The issue is very central, both in relation to the proper use of public funds and in relation to the trust that public health services depend on having in the population. The issue must therefore be taken seriously. There is no acceptance for cheating either with diagnosis or with coding in Norwegian hospitals. Health companies manage people's trust and money. It imposes high standards of ethics. However, let it be said that we have a good health service and employees with good attitudes for patients. Failures, defects and deficiencies should be addressed, but this should not lead to generalising accusations against the many leaders and employees who carry our health care in a first-class way. Before I answer the question directly, I would like to comment on an important starting point on the relationship with the patient. For me, it is a fundamental requirement for the service that the diagnosis, treatment and management of journals and epicrisis must be governed by professional and scientific conditions. Therefore, clinical assessments cannot be guided more or less by the income effects of different alternatives and by the willingness to extend the professional assessments of possible income. We must be on guard against any tendency to let the clinical evaluations be governed by what, in isolation, may be financially profitable. Some might say that the easiest way to eliminate any risk is to eliminate any link between the activity of hospitals and their income. In practice, this would require the removal of the ISF, which was introduced in 1997, and the introduction of a clean framework for the financing of hospitals. That's not my position. When the ISF scheme was introduced, it would be a contribution to increasing the number of patients treated. I am still confident that patients benefit from the fact that hospitals are also encouraged to increase their efforts through economic instruments. The decrease in waiting times is the key to this assessment. However, if such schemes are to be maintained over time, we must be careful to set up the schemes and develop attitudes so as to avoid negative impacts. In practice, this is the topic of today's interpellation, and I'm going to give a picture of the whole of the strategy that I'm going to pursue. I will not go into the matter in question from Health Sør, who has put the search light on the ISF funding, in addition to pointing to two points: firstly, that from the first day when the matter became known to the department, I have had the aim of needing to bottom all of its pages, and that the necessary follow-up will then happen. The Ministry of Health has carried out external reviews of the case, and the Ministry has received a report from the Board of Health South with total lighting and review of the case. Entrepreneurship meetings will be held in a short time, where the department's assessments and follow-up to the case will be notified. Although it has been important to act quickly, it has been important for me to use the necessary time for external review and opportunity for those responsible to act. It is not only about action but also about legal certainty. Secondly, quality control of the ISF is now being carried out, as practices have been established from previous years. It is done by a SINTEF Unimed unit responsible for the practical operation of the ISF. Data quality assurance is carried out as recorded in the Norwegian Patient Register. The review will be able to capture marked changes and deviations in hospital registration and hospitalisation practices. It is this review that provides the basis for the final ISF payments to health businesses for the year 2002. For the ministry, it is now very central that this review takes into account recent developments. There has therefore been a dialogue between the Ministry of Health and Sintef Unimed to ensure that the final review is based on a comprehensive control strategy based on this starting point. On this basis, the 2002 review is becoming more extensive than in previous years. In this context, I will also briefly comment on the relationship with the so-called creep limit, which was lifted from 2002. This was introduced to ensure that it was only refunded for actual increase in activity and not for better registration of patient treatment. The background to this was experience from other countries, which ensured that the quality of registration would be improved by the implementation of the ISF scheme. Without a crawl, one risked that hospitals would be better paid only by recording more fully the activity they had before. The system of crawling had its merits, but it also created bureaucracy, and it produced unintended effects. An important aspect of the 2002 quality assurance, which is now being implemented, will be to assess whether a higher level of registration is developing without this being reflected in more or more patients. This is in line with what was previously announced in Stortinget, and as the representative Kristoffersen quoted. During the treatment of St.prp. No 47 for 1999-2000, the Stortinget, on a proposal from the Government, decided to establish an advisory medical panel to assist the Ministry in medical matters relating to the recording and quality control of medical data. This sample, the so-called Billing Committee, shall advise the Ministry of Health on issues related to the disbursement basis of input-driven financing. The billing selection thus has a control function in relation to setting the acceptable coding standard. The feasibility of bringing matters into this sample is an important element of the ongoing quality assurance of the 2002 data. What is done to ensure that everyone involved in the practice of the ISF acts in accordance with legislation and good professional practice? The ISF scheme is based on average figures and is therefore not a scheme aimed at ensuring that the individual ISF reimbursement is met precisely in relation to the individual hospital's use of resources for an individual activity. There will have to be discretion, and it will be done and done wrong, as it was also highlighted in the Riksrevision report that was presented and dealt with in Stortinget last year. However, if the scheme is to have the right of life, it must have overall qualities that allow the individual hospital to be treated correctly overall, and not least that it is confident that no cheating or strategic coding will bring economic benefits to individual hospitals. In order to ensure this, continuous quality work is ongoing in the scheme, including: through the development of the quality assurance and control activities carried out under the responsibility of Sintef Unimed Norsk Patient Register. This will now be expanded and reinforced as follows: Firstly, the management and management involvement of the ISF scheme shall be upgraded in the regional health establishments and in the local health establishments. The theme will also be given increased attention in the governance dialogue between the Ministry of Health and regional enterprises. The focus will be on governance and management exposure at all levels, both regionally in health enterprises, at departmental level and at business management level. The information coming out of the system must also be used more actively in the management context. This is involved in the overall management development work that is now being undertaken in cooperation between the department and enterprises. In areas where trades and economics meet, it will be absolutely essential, no matter how much legislation is done and its follow-up, that there be systematic efforts to develop attitudes that can help to ensure that the various schemes' intentions and frameworks are followed up. Secondly, as part of the follow-up by the Ministry to improve medical records and coding, a wide-ranging seminar was held at the end of March this year on the DRG and medical coding legislation for hospital doctors in clinical specialities. The seminar was organised by the Legeforeningen, SINTEF Unimed and the Ministry of Health. I place the crucial emphasis on these environments developing close cooperation on the further development of the scheme. Undertakings will also be involved in this cooperation. Thirdly, further work on the development of ISF legislation and control systems will focus on all aspects of the experience of 2002 and 2003. We will analyse this and, to the extent necessary, introduce changes in legislation and follow-up practices. One important aspect here is that the ISF system reflects in a good way the costs of the various activities. However, it must never be that the departments are in detail counting on losses and gains in relation to the ISF, and that this is a starting point for the professional priorities of businesses. In that case, the scheme has come on wild roads. The activities and priorities of hospitals shall be governed by the rules and guidelines set out in political and professional decisions and shall not be the result of profitability assessments under the ISF scheme. The Ministry of Health will in St.prp. No In 2004 give an overall feedback on the arrangements we are making to ensure that the practice of the ISF system is carried out in accordance with legislation and good professional practice. Let me finish by saying something about values. Health policy has set targets for equal treatment for the entire population, irrespective of their place of residence, economic, social and ethnic circumstances. This makes it impossible to use pure-bred market decision-making and distribution techniques. A central part of health policy is to direct healthcare to the population, regardless of their ability to pay for the services. It should be unnecessary to say so, but this has not been altered by what happened in 2002 by the fact that the country acquired the ownership of hospitals and these were organised as enterprises. Regional health enterprises have as a crystal clear task the management of public resources in accordance with the distribution policy objectives set by the Storting. And no matter how much control and follow-up is put in, it will be necessary that there is a backbone in the Norwegian healthcare system and in management levels at all levels, which opposes attempts to do things in a way that is not in accordance with the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e798	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What the Minister for Health said here was very satisfactory. I am so reassured in that way. I believe that this matter as a single matter has been handled in the best possible way. When I left this interview, it was to get the Minister of Health's view and assessment of today's practice. This also applies insofar as the ideas we have shared here regarding dealing with breaches of the law, which obviously must be based not only on medical knowledge but also on trust between the parties, and what the Minister of Health stressed in his last section on fundamental values and attitudes for all those dealing with such issues. I therefore think it is right that the Stortinget at this time is as up-to-date as possible about the practice in hospitals and how the Minister of Health experiences the situation from his position. We now stand – at least the Minister of Health does so, and perhaps the Stortingen in the next round – in front of a review and revision of today’s system and a new funding system. We need a system that is as vulnerable as possible to interpretation and different practices, so that not some shortcomings in the system or in people can lead to unfortunate adjustments – or, to put it correctly – cheating. The use of the ISF system, as I mentioned in my post, and also as the Minister for Health, has been largely a success and has motivated good use of resources. It would therefore be a pity if the Minister of Health had to look at the need to include elements in the new system that will hamper good resource use. I do not know if the Minister of Health could elaborate further on what he so far had in mind in his reply to me. Does the Minister of Health see any need to put barriers in the system we have today, and in the future system, which prevents abuse? This is very dependable. We who meet people out there often get the question: Do you have control of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e809	I'm, like the interpellant, concerned that when we go into a new generation of funding system, which we're now preparing, we're also going to have a system that actually stimulates more people to get help faster. It has led to the ISF system, and as it stands, it has been a success. At the same time, it is clear that the system needs to be as robust as possible in the case of failures, whether they occur unconsciously, or in the case of deliberate pre-examination of non-compliant adaptations. There are such controls and barriers today. We continuously assess in the follow-up to this case complex whether such controls and barriers should be reinforced or intensified. It is part of the current work that is being carried out independently of the issue of the suspension of the Hagen Committee and the design of the future funding system. What is central is that coding should be medically correct and reflect the medical activities – so simple, but so central. The DRG system is established to compare and balance the different medical activities. The activities carried out in hospitals are complex and extensive, even in relation to individual patients. These activities shall be documented. It is literally vital that this is done correctly, that we ensure that all activities, medical and health professionals, are fully documented, and that this is what is reflected in the DRG codes that are then set. This should be in focus in the control, follow-up and settlement work for which the various bodies, for which I explained in my main response, are responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e816	I would first like to thank both the interpellant and the Minister for Health for the interpellation and for the answers. This is an important and necessary debate to take. I'd like to start by saying that having a goal of creating a perfect funding system that takes care of all the concerns in this area at the same time, I think, is a task that no one should take on, because that's impossible. A funding system in this area will have to be constantly under development, under discussion. It has to be adjusted along the way according to the objectives that one has and based on the conclusions that one draws from the experience that a sheep has. Health services and health businesses are large and complex systems, all of which depend on taking the individual decisions taken each day into account in attitudes, values and culture consistent with the objectives of the health system. In this way, we are independent of the economic systems. We depend on that it's trust, that the individual takes the responsibility that you're given, and that it's people who operate this system. By that I believe it would be wrong to base a funding system on control. The main focus must be that one has a funding system that helps patients to receive treatment within the deadlines set and according to their needs. Some have tried — not interpellant, but others — to use this discussion for a discussion that there is something wrong with the funding system, and that is what is behind it. I totally disagree with that. In previous systems that we've had, like with curd prices, it could be just as much tricking, for example. by leaving a patient one or two extra days to get funds out that way, as it is by code error. So this will depend on the people in the system. Experience so far with the input-driven funding system is that it has produced positive results. It provides patients with better and faster treatment, and thus, in my view, it will be the basis for further development of the funding system that we are now going to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e829	As many have said, the single-price financing has been a success. In my opinion, success could have been greater if we had had 70 pst. DRG funding. The only time that Stortinget has considered an evaluation of input-based funding and hospital operations was in 2002 in connection with a document from the National Audit Office. I would like to draw attention to the fact that no abuse of the coding and DRG was detected. On the contrary, it was pointed out that several hospitals had signed their bills to the state, and thus received too little money. So I think the ethics and morals of health care are very good, and we'll be happy for that. Then we have this affair down in Health South, which we could be in addition to, and as a bit on the way has weakened confidence in both health businesses and the reform. It was completely unnecessary. My message here today in this context is that I want to praise the Minister of Health for the cash he showed when this became known, and came to the bottom of the matter – or will come to the bottom, because there is probably a piece left in relation to one hospital. We're all supposed to be happy about that. It also shows that we have a political leadership that does not accept the kind of trickery that it might seem it was put up down there. One side of this is also whether the invoices in the hospital that are still under investigation are in line with the record entry for diagnosis. If it isn't, we're facing a serious problem with the future. The Health Minister's answer to the interpellant's questions was reassuring and thorough, and we can all feel reassured that this will not be accepted in the future. This has nothing to do with the reform and business model.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e838	Of course, any system can be abused, as Bent Höie was also involved in his post. However, it is sobering how the input-based funding system has clearly had distortive effects that can hardly be described as desirable. Based on data from SINTEF Unimed, we have seen relatively greater growth in the somatic areas of specialist healthcare than in mental health and mental health treatment — during a period when we have had an escalation plan for psychiatry. There seems to be considerable reason for reflection at least in SV. I don't think that's the main reason for calming down. When several of the parties here today signal that they are very pleased with the answers of the Minister of Health, it is implicit that everything must be able to continue as before, because there are crooked vessels in any camp. It's too easy. The effects we have seen from the input-based funding are that you go after the money, you're governed by the money. It is clear that, as a consequence of the management of health businesses according to the money, there are distortive effects. This means that not only does psychiatry get hurt, but it means that areas where profit is small, become vulnerable. There may be rehabilitation in Revmatology, with patients who need long-term care to recover. It may be the treatment of arthritis in general. It can, not least, be child-related and young people's plagues, where one will find it very difficult to determine an equal price for treatment of different conditions, because the course is so different. What makes it visible is that the input-based funding, at least as the system is set up today, is too rough a net, and you can't compensate it by making the masks finer and finer to get a more suitable tool. Therefore, SV looks forward to a review of the entire funding system to find other types of models. We also think that there must be incentives at the bottom. It must be that the treatment of many has to provide income higher than the treatment of few. But it must not be in such a way that it is the economy's entrance march that is now to control the specialist health service, so that the more economists you have, and the more creative you are, the higher incomes you can get for the hospital. Because there's something that doesn't serve patients, that's exactly it. We don't get an overall health service if it's going to be the way that the Storting adopts escalating plans, and then there's completely different parts of the health care system that are being developed and stepped up than the one that just the same size has decided to bet on. There is also an explanation problem for the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e849	It is a hyper topical matter the representative of Asmund Kristoffersen brings up today. The press has informed us that a hospital has committed a deliberate recoding of diagnostics and has therefore paid millions more than they needed. Since I come from the Health South region and know all the health companies very well, I am pleased with the way the Health Minister has met the problems. From the first moment he has asked to get all the facts on the table. No one has been prejudged. Justice and legal certainty shall prevail here. When the report of the Board of Health South is available, one could make an informed decision, including: based on an external review of the facts in this case, and not based on what the press believes is true. Such things have many negative sides. It boosts public health trust. Health enterprises manage large sums of money. It is important that these are well managed. Like most people, the Christian People's Party cannot accept that numbers are tricked, and that health businesses count on what should be profitable in relation to the ISF system. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that all activities carried out in hospitals are guided according to patients' needs and according to professional priorities. It is also important that national leaders determined by the Storting should be followed up. My impression is that most health workers work according to these guidelines and have a high ethical standard. This was also confirmed when the Committee met the Medical Association. Their positions are clear. Diagnosis, treatment, DRG coding and record keeping shall be based on professional and ethical priorities, not on what is profitable for departments and hospitals. The Christian People's Party agreed that the so-called cryptography should be removed, as it led to a lot of bureaucratic work. We don't want this back. For us, it's important that we have a system that premieres those who increase patient treatment. The ISF scheme has led to fewer waiting for treatment and a reduction in waiting time. The DRG system is divided into more than 500 diagnostic groups into thousands of diagnostics and procedures. This system is complicated. I also noticed that the representative Kristoffersen said that coding is not an exact science. I agree with that, and it is understandable that several companies need the help of DRG experts. But it must never be that these are used to give hospitals economic benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e868	With, inter alia: recent newspaper headlines on how treatment/diagnosis has been practised by some health care businesses to make the most money, it is important and useful that we get such a debate to which it is invited here through the Asmund Kristoffersen interpellation. I think there is reason to stress that it is, as the Minister of Health and others have said, depending on the individual taking responsibility, whether this should work properly, but then it has to be pointed out that ultimately there is a management responsibility, not least in the individual enterprise and in the individual department. The reactions of the Minister of Health so far have been good, and he is to be commended for it. But at the same time, much remains to be done to create clear lines, procedures and a proper implementation of what we are discussing here in terms of economics and possible abuse. The DRG system is the basis for the input-driven funding. It is important that we have a rigorous DRG system, and then we will discuss how much we are going to pay under the ISF scheme, i.e. the input-driven financing model. The centre party has been sceptical about this and on several occasions pointed out that the ISF scheme – at least used too heavily – has serious weaknesses, including: that patient treatment can be over-directed on the basis of money and earnings, and not on the basis of what serves the patient and patient groups best. Among other things, it is a fact that psychiatry has become damaged, that chroniclers, and the elderly in particular, have also been harmed, but it now appears that even individual patients may be injured. In a TV 2 program some time ago, we learned that a significant number of people were mistreated and operated as heart patients by a heart surgeon who wanted to make more money for his health care company. What is important here is to look at the term ‘patient first’ in relation to ‘money first’. The attention of the individual patient is the most important and serious in this case as well. Transcoding that has wrongly occurred may also have led to the mistreatment of individuals – at least individuals may have been misdiagnosed and facts in the personal patient record. It has serious consequences for quite a few in retrospect. This is one of the things that needs to be cleaned up first. And then the Minister of Health has to thank his health companies, for which he is the chief manager, so that the practice gets better, while we have to discuss a funding system that takes into account patient treatment and not the economy of each department and of the individual hospital. If the patient is to be put first, this must happen so that the economy does not come first and last.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e876	I would first of all like to thank the Minister of Health for very thorough and precise information and assessment, as well as my co-representatives who have taken part in the debate here. I think that the Stortinget has benefited from such a review that we have now had, based on the political situation, where we all have to be participants in relation to the recordings we get from the outside world. First of all, the Stortinget has gained direct insight into the health minister's handling of a daily matter. I think that might have been important. Secondly, Stortinget has been expressed its concern about an unfortunate practice, while we have also been told that it is not the system's fault that hospitals are being made mistakes, but there are mainly other reasons. It also means that the Storting has stated in unambiguous terms that the system adopted by the Storing must be managed with a great deal of knowledge and understanding, with the utmost emphasis on what is best for the patient. Although I would not have spoken as the representative Ballo did about the ISF, I believe that he still pointed to an important element in relation to, for example, the ISF. areas such as psychiatry and rehabilitation, in a system where we naturally promote activity. This will be a challenge when we later adopt a revised system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e883	Let me first thank the interpellant, which gave me the opportunity to have this review for Stortinget at this time. I feel that there is broad and cross-political support for the way I have tried to follow up this serious problem, and I appreciate that very much. I will also be dependent on that in the further work, because it is quite right that the representative of Lutvold said, that there is still a lot of work and follow-up to what I have said here that we are doing. It is not that I see this Storting's connection as a connection that everything can continue as before because there are broken vessels in any system, as the representative Ballo put it. On the contrary, that's not my starting point. My starting point is that to the extent that deliberately attempts to cheat or adapt incorrectly by coding and diagnostics in this system are detected, it must be seized, cleaned up, and it must be caught by good control systems. I am fully aware that it is not possible to create completely waterproof systems, systems that guarantee against any faults. This is no exact science; there is a need for a lot of understanding. But we're going to have arrangements that capture marked deviations, so we can react. Let me conclude by saying that I also note that we largely agree across the parties that we need a funding system that provides incentives for increased patient treatment. It will also be the basis for what I want to work on in relation to new funding systems. But it's not that because if ISF has led to – I think it's right to say – increased efforts in the somatic field, that means that the psychiatry gets damaged. There's no documentation of it. The Hagen committee says that in its investigation, there is no evidence that the psychiatry has been harmed. And it was also not a prerequisite for Storting's escalating plan to step down or have a standstill in the somatic environment. We've had an escalation – and we're in the middle of an escalation – in the psychiatry, and it happens at the same time that there's an increased bet in the somatic environment. It has never been the Storting's assumption that one should be done at the expense of the other, either way. With these summary comments, I would like to thank you for the support I have received through this debate in dealing with these important issues in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e899	The debate on substance is then closed. 5 o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e910	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e917	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Britt Hildeng on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 2, from Sigbjørn Molvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to put the public aid by adoption from abroad at 1 G from 1 January 2004 and to include its expenditure in the 2004 State budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e945	There is an alternative proposal, proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to draw up a phasing-in plan for the adoption aid under the Revised National Budget for 2003’.» The President expects the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party to support the proposal of the Workers' Party in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e965	During the debate Bent Höie has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e994	Here is an alternative proposal from the Right, Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:1 [[2002-2003]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e1013	During the debate Ola D. Glötvold put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the submission of the future structure of AMK centres in Norway for treatment in the Grand Duchy before structural changes take place.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e1038	During the debate, Mr Molvik has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked by the Government, through consultation and interaction with the Local Governments’ Central Association, to clarify the allocation of responsibilities and resource needs in relation to the outsourcing of patients from the specialist health service. The government must promote measures to ensure a sound regime and practice of patient outsourcing in the Revised National Budget 2003, including: the financial and professional resources of local authorities are adequately strengthened to meet the needs and safety of patients.’;» Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08.ana.ud1425e1060	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
