ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e32	From the meeting of the alternate of the Finnmark County, Åshild Karlstrøm Rundhaug, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the remainder of the mandate of the representative Raymond Robertsen from 11 February to 13 February, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. Other alternates, Just Hjalmar Johansen, are convened to meet during the leave period.3. Just Hjalmar Johansen is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Raymond Robertsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e55	A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Morten Højlund and Ivar Østberg on leave on days 11 and 12 February, both to attend the meetings of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee and the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee in Bratislava and Brussels from the representatives of Trond Giske and Olaf on leave from 11 February to 13 February, both to attend a Wilton Park conference in Malta from the representative of May Britt Vihoven on welfare leave from 11 February to 13 February; These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Hordaland County, Harald Hove, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the mandate of the representative May Britt Vihovde from 11 February to 13 February, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox This application shall be dealt with without delay and shall be granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Akershus County: Harald Espelund For Hordaland County: Frode Hervik For Rogaland County: Silver Sivertsen For Troms County: Leif Christian Johansen For Sør-Trøndelag County: Ola Røtvei3. Leif Christian Johansen is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Ivar Østberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e118	The representative of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e121	On behalf of the representatives Heidi Sørensen, Åsa Elvik, Hallgeir H. Langeland and myself, I would like to put forward proposals to immediately stop any future experimentation and testing of Mixed Oxide Fuel in the Halden reactor.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e126	The representative of Heidi Grande Røys will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e129	On behalf of Øystein Djupedal, Hallgeir H. Langeland and myself, I would like to put forward proposals to strengthen and extend the national park administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e134	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will announce that the suspension of case No. 2 has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. No objection has been raised – and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e152	The issue is Innst. S. No 98 for 2002-2003 on a new chapter structure for defence. The matter was raised in the state budget for the current year and postponed. The proposal for a new chapter structure has been submitted to the Constitutional Office for further investigation, and the Presidency of the Grand Duchy has agreed that the matter should be promoted as a separate heading after the normal budgetary procedure. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the SV and the Centre Party, are in favour of maintaining the structure of the day. The minority, consisting of the Right and Christian People's Party, is in favour of establishing a new chapter structure in line with the government's proposal. The proposal for a new chapter structure was also promoted in spring 2002 as part of the revised national budget without obtaining a majority. Through the establishment of a new chapter structure, the defence military organisation will only receive an operational item 01, which will cover a total of approx. 13 billion based on current budget levels. The majority of the Committee considers this to be unfortunate, and I would like to point out that the existing practice of postal budgeting, including: the defence sectors are granted constitutionally binding appropriations, providing the most appropriate basis for expressing defence policy priorities and decisions. The majority of the Committee considers, on a principle basis, that the defence should be in a special position in terms of political control expressed through the annual budgets and therefore wishes to maintain the current established allocation model. This is in a good way consistent with the Storting budget management model in order to express political priorities and decisions. The majority have noted the ministry's wishes and the need to establish simplified processes for horizontal and vertical interaction between the Defence Logistics Organisation and the Defence Military Organisation. The prerequisites for such trade should be achieved through the development of internal procedures and processes and through the elimination of possible cultural differences between the Defence Logistics Organisation and the Defence Military Organisation over time, not through such a fundamental and comprehensive reversal of the budget procedures of the Storting. The minority in the Committee, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, have made comments, among others. the proposed change in the chapter structure is a prerequisite for achieving vertical and horizontal interaction between the Defence Logistics Organisation and the Defence Military Organisation, while providing a greater degree of simplification. I assume that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party themselves present their views, and I present this with the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e167	For many outsiders, I think the defence and defence debate are often marked by large economic sums and ‘technicities’. It is possible that today's debate on the new chapter structure of defence may also be felt this way, and that is understandable. But I also understand that the department wants a conversion, like the one that has been proposed. A desire for simplified processes of horizontal and vertical interaction between the Defence Military Organisations and the Defence Logistics Organisation is not a bad intention. However, it will also involve a great degree of shift of power from the Storting to the Government. This is a consequence of the proposal that is not desirable. If the proposal that is being discussed in this Chamber today had received a majority, we would have got one entry on the defence budget that had been worth 13 billion kroner, or almost half the total defence budget. It has two sides. First of all, it would have been a very big post. No matter how you turn it around, 13 billion dollars is a lot of money. However, there is one argument that is even more important than that it is a large sum. That is also a fundamental argument, namely the ability of the Stortinge to control the budget. Although theoretically it would reveal how much was going to be spent within the individual weapons, Stortinget would not have controlled where the money would be spent – for the simple reason that it is not only a chapter structure, but also a debate on post structure, to put it simply. In other words, there would be opportunities to move large sums within the budget without the Storting having any influence on it. This means that we are in the midst of not only an economic and budgetary debate, but also a constitutional debate. The proposed chapter structure would set aside the possibility for the Storting to exercise control over the money to be spent within the individual arms. I would like to stress that this is not a matter of big business or detail management, but of the Storting's treatment of what is our most important political document, namely the state budget. This is why the Labour Party and the majority of the Committee and the Storting today reject the Government's proposal for a new structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e186	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1798]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e202	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e211	As rapporteur for Document No. The 8-proposal for class bombs I am pleased with the broad agreement we reached in this matter. The preservation of the civilian population was at the root of Norway’s efforts to ban antipersonnel mines. Such mines are a threat to the civilian population for many years after the military conflict is over. Several thousand lives are lost every year because of such mines, and many more are injured. We have a similar problem with class bombs, and it's the same ethical concerns that underlie. With the use of today's class bombs, a significant number of bursts are left unexploded on the ground, so-called deadlocks. In practice, they act as anti-personnel mines in the terrain, as explosives can be triggered by contact with humans or animals. That today's class bombs have such an inhuman effect was confirmed, among other things. by Red Cross and Norwegian People's Aid when they were in the hearing on this matter. A unanimous defence committee considers the work to reduce the suffering of the civilian population in armed conflicts to be an important humanitarian task. Norway has long traditions to contribute to this, both in conflict prevention, peacekeeping operations, humanitarian aid and further development of internationally committed legislation. All parties, except the Advance Party, believe that the international ban on anti-personnel mines was an important step in the fight against weapons that could have unintended inhuman effects. The work to limit and regulate the placing on the market and use of class bombs — and subsequently to introduce international bans on defined class bombs — is a continuation of this work under international law. The term ‘class bombs’ does not have a clear international definition, as opposed to, for example: anti-personnel mines. A common understanding of the word ‘class bombs’ is aerial bombs containing a larger number of small bursts. Clarity of concept is important both for the follow-up to the Storing Decision and for the national restrictions Norway applies on its own. With class bombs, the Committee considers, in this context, explosive sub-strand bombs delivered from aircraft. The work to reduce the suffering of the civilian population in armed conflicts is an important humanitarian task. The majority decided on 14 June 2001 that the Government should provide active support for international work that could lead to a block-bomb ban, in line with the ban on anti-personnel mines. The attitude of the Defence Committee is a confirmation and recognition of the work of the Government and Norway to ban class bombs internationally. There is currently no basis for an international ban. The government consulted its close allies and partners on the possibility of such a ban not later than in the autumn of 2001 but rejected it. The government has therefore chosen to give priority to regulating and limiting the use of blind people. In the disarmament negotiations in Geneva in 2002, there was an agreement on negotiations with Norwegian active participation in order to establish an international agreement with measures related to clean-up, alerts to the civilian population, information exchange and increased cooperation. Further calls were also agreed to improve the reliability of the ammunition types falling within the definition of ‘explosive legacy’. It opens here to discuss the use of class bombs. Better regulation internationally is a step on the way to a future ban on class bombs that create humanitarian problems by leaving blinders behind. Here, all parties, except the Advance Party, are given recognition to the Government for targeted efforts. Several national restrictions and restrictions have also been introduced: Class bombs from aeroplanes in training and drills shall not be used in Norway.If it is possible for Norwegian fighter aircraft and/or pilots to participate in exercises or other training activities abroad involving the use of class bombs, it is required that the plans be submitted to the Department in advance for political evaluation.The presence of class bombs by the Norwegian defense shall be destroyed.The defence has a scheme not to use class bombs in Afghanistan. Norway is probably the world’s largest country to introduce national restrictions and bans on class bombs. I'm proud of that. The Christian People's Party believes that Norway should be a leading country in strengthening humanitarian work in accordance with international law, and we are going to go ahead of ourselves nationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e250	On 7 October last year, two class bombs fell over the Hjerkinn exercise field, dropped from a Norwegian and a Dutch fighter plane. It was obvious to everyone who followed the debate in the wake of the incident, that this was perceived as controversial. It was controversial because the Stortinget had decided 16 months earlier to ask the Government to work for an international ban on class bombs, in line with landmines, as stated in the decision. It was controversial because the then Defence Minister Bjørn Tore Godal had given instructions in February 2001 that controversial ammunition should be presented to political leadership. And it was controversial because some class bombs get the same effect as just landmines. Here we are at the heart of the matter. It's the blankhead percentage that makes this kind of class bomb a controversial munitions. That's why it also has to focus on the number of deadlocks. They remain in nature after a conflict or an attack is over. In the same way as landmines, these blind people lie unexposed and lead to mutilation of the civilian population. So here, women and children are being hit – not necessarily during a war, but in months and years afterwards. It has well been said by some that the release of high-impact class bombs is a cost-effective way of laying landmines. In general, work should be done in order not to use high percentage deadweight ammunition. I think that will be an important part of the work to reduce the suffering of the civilian population during and after armed conflicts. And since the number of uncontrolled regional conflicts is increasing around the world, not least ethnic conflicts and civil wars, this is an important international work. Just think of the number of landmines and dynamites present in a country like Angola — a country that could have been full of natural resources and wealth, but where today it is almost lethal to move outside densely populated areas. The decision of 14 June 2001 underpins the refusal of the defence to use class bombs in exercises in Norway. After the Hierkin incident, the Defence Committee received a letter from the Council of State, attached to her and the Chief of Defense's reports. It is stated that the Ministry, in its instructions of 25 October, has just emphasised that class bombs from aeroplanes in training and exercises should not be used in Norway. An instruction has also been given on 4 November in which training activities abroad involving the use of class bombs are to be submitted to the Council of State, as underlined by the Advocate General. For the class bombs in Norwegian stocks, there are now plans for destruction, and they are, as far as I know, about to be implemented. I note that the majority of the Defence Committee took note of the letter from the Council of State, attached to the two reports. This shows the majority of the time in the current settings. The majority also take note of the actions undertaken and planned by the Council of State to improve civil-military coordination and clarify command conditions in a new integrated management to be implemented from 1 August this year. This is in line with the Storting decision of 19 June 2002. I believe that it will strengthen the political and democratic governance of defence as an organisation and prevent and hopefully prevent new brain issues. Based on a number of guidelines related to deadlocks and to the definitions of class bombs in international work to limit their use, the Government has chosen not to use class bombs in military operations in Afghanistan. The majority of the Committee points out that this reflects an attitude towards the use of such weapons also in Norwegian participation in future international operations. Finally, like the rapporteur, I am pleased that we were given such a broad majority in this position, where we have largely agreed to the decisions and instructions already in place, as well as to draw some lines forward. Otherwise, I will refer to the statements made by the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e269	I would like to refer to the previous two posts and stress that the handling of the case has shown that there are first and foremost unexposed deadlocks that are the problem with class bombs. There is a basis for great concern about the humanitarian situation that arises for years after the war itself has ended, and it is directly misunderstood defence loyalty not to work to prevent such disasters from being avoided. In addition, after the decision to raise a large number of cases, the suspension refers to the administration’s handling of the case after the decision to raise a large number of cases on 14 June 2001. The majority say directly that they are satisfied with Norway’s diplomatic efforts to follow up the decision and the statements made in the Storting on the occasion of the case. We are also pleased that we have received broad international support, including in particular: through the so-called CCW negotiations in Geneva, and that we are now working after clear international follow-up related to clean-up, duty to alert the civilian population, information exchange and assistance and cooperation. I would also like to stress that we have come in the right direction to define what class bombs mean, by the Committee saying that in this context we mean bombs with explosive sub-strands – small bursts – delivered from aircraft. Now, there's a big difference in the number of passersby. And I am particularly pleased that the majority now agree that the international work is initially directed towards class bombs that do not have effective self-destructive mechanisms. Therefore, by direct reference to the work of the Government in this matter, the large majority of the Constitution states that they do not consider it appropriate to introduce a national ban, as proposed in Document No. 8:30. It may have to be allowed to say that this must be one of the more unnecessary document proposals promoted in Stortinget. The fact that the proposers agree with the wording that it is not appropriate to deal with the proposal that they themselves have promoted is a quite killing characteristic.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e282	We are living in a very exciting time, at a time when a new war can stand in front of its start with unparalleled consequences also for Norwegian military personnel, especially in view of any Norwegian military involvement, which will not be unimaginable. Saddam Hussein has clearly stated that any attack on Iraq could trigger acts of terrorism worldwide. It is therefore not excluded that Norway, like a NATO country, may also be affected. Paradoxically, at the same time, we are facing a sharp decline in Norwegian defence. That sharp end needs to be strengthened, it's called. It is official Norwegian policy, while, in reality, we have disarmed 70,000 HV soldiers, who have just been assigned to quickly and armed to protect a possible terrorist target on Norwegian soil. Norwegian reserve officers and other officers have delivered their weapons, just at a time when the voltage level is very high. I am pleased that the Progress Party has not contributed to this. We have previously adopted a ban on self-destructive military anti-personnel mines for the protection of Norwegian soldiers, and now we are about to do the same with self-destructive laser-driven class bombs. The modern class bomber must not be compared to the type of bomb used on the Hierkin, or the type that the Defense itself is now destroying. This is a type that has literally expired on date, and of course is not to be used anymore. Class bombs are not defined as a special category of weapon or type of bomb. Class bombs in this context refer to bombs designed to contain a quantity of smaller explosives and thus have a wider impact field than an ordinary bomb with only one burster. The proposal for a ban concerns bombs of this type delivered from aeroplanes. The same type of technology is also used in ammunition for artillery, so-called cargo ammunition. So-called class bombs are today an important part of modern warfare. This is because they are precise, have a relatively large impact force and are essential in self-protection of forces on the battlefield. The bombs are often equipped with lasers or other control devices, so that there is no fault bombing. Recent developments in these types of bombs have shown that considerable emphasis is now being placed on the fact that the bombs will not be a threat to civilians and others if they do not explode at the target. This is ensured by a self-destruct mechanism that renders them harmless after a certain period of time. There is therefore no greater risk of such bombers than for other more traditional bombs. So-called class bombs will certainly be more and more relevant in the context of combat actions, precisely because they are safe and effective. It is not desirable to extend the existing restrictions further. The restrictions should have been lifted, as the Progress Party also thought the last time the matter was up. It is very important to stress that an unconditional and unreserved ban will cause Norway to have major problems operating with allies who have weapons and ammunition types in their stock that can be defined as class bombs. This will apply to Norwegian fighter pilots participating in exchange programmes at allied host departments and, in the event of armed conflict in Norwegian territory, where allied reinforcements carry their legal stockpiles of weapons which these countries may consider absolutely necessary in relation to their own strength protection. In the worst case, an unconditional ban may result in a serious deterioration in Norwegian defence capabilities and necessitate a conversion of the Norwegian defence concept. This is almost exactly what the Minister of Defence says in his letter to the committee, which is included in the vote. This is also the position of the Progress Party in this matter. Finally, on this basis, I present the proposal for a decision of the Advance Party, which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e299	The representative Per Ove Width has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e302	On 14 June 2001 the European Parliament adopted the following decisions: ‘The Government is asking the Government to provide active support for international work that could lead to a block-bomb ban, in line with the ban on anti-personnel mines.’ The long-term objective of an international ban on landmines requires individual countries to go ahead. Norway should take on a driving role in relation to class bombs, as Norway did in the work of the Anti-personnel Mines Convention. The class bombing issue is not new, but has increased attention after the Kosovo war and the war in Afghanistan. Like the depleted uranium issue, the use of class bombs was first denied and then confirmed by NATO teams during the Kosovo conflict. NATO is responsible for the release of group bombs with 290 000 sub-bombs in Kosovo. It is estimated that between 30000 and 50000 have not been detonated. According to figures from the International Red Cross, it became, for example, in the period June 1999 to May 2000, 394 people were injured and killed in Kosovo as a result of the post-war legacy. 151 of these injuries and deaths were due to class bombs, and the average age of injuries and deaths was 22 years. The problems surrounding class bombs are exactly the same as for landmines. Such weapons strike civilians and cause the war against civilians to continue long after the military have retreated and peace has been ended. Class bombs are bombs with a quantity of sub-bombs that spread over large areas after launching. An error rate of between 5 and 15 causes a large number of small unexploded bombs to spread over the terrain. These bombs explode very easily in contact. Children are particularly vulnerable to injury. They're curious and don't know what to look for. In other words, unexposed class bombs behave in the same way as anti-personnel mines. SV would have liked us to have a decision on a national ban, but is pleased that it is now clearly expressed by both government and wholesale that class bombs should not be used in Norway, that the class bombs in stock should be destroyed, and that Norway should not contribute to the use of such bombs in international operations in the future. This is widely perceived as a national ban and should provide a basis for Norway to take a driving role internationally. It is not possible to have such a driving role if we do not have a clear relationship that class bombs should not be used by us. SV has not been satisfied with the way in which alternating governments have followed up the class bomb decision of June 2001 and have considered that the work has been too defensive. The test bombing at Hjerkin last fall also showed that there had not been good enough follow-up within the defense. In this context, it should be emphasised that the bombs that were released were precisely of the variant that the Government wants to prohibit because they do not have a self-destructive mechanism. However, the unfortunate testing contributed to bringing the case forward, and there is no doubt today that Norway will follow up the 2001 decision. There is reason to pay tribute to the Government for the work it did during the disarmament negotiations in Geneva before Christmas, where there has now been an agreement on a mandate for further work. The establishment of better arrangements and arrangements for what will happen after a war in which class bombs have been used, as described in the mandate, is necessary and also to work to reduce the number of deadlocks from the class bombs to an ethically acceptable level as far as possible. That's of course the result as the numerator. It's important that we have order in our own house with regard to the use of class bombs, but the most important thing is what happens internationally in war. Class bombs were in use in Kosovo, have been in use in Afghanistan and will be used in a war against Iraq. Norway should not be closely involved in the diplomatic towing of new international legislation, but should also address the use of class bombs in NATO and directly with the United States and other warring countries. That is why I would urge the Minister of Defence to take the initiative to ensure that both NATO countries and warring countries do not use class bombs in the future. I would also like to ask the Minister for Defence whether she will take the initiative and ask that class bombs be removed from allies' pre-stores in Norway and whether the pre-stored landmines have now been removed from Norwegian soil, as it has been discussed for a long time. Last fall, as a result of the debate around class bombs, was also the question of other types of ammunition that have a large number of deadlocks, coming up in the debate. In this context, the Committee has defined class bombs as aerial bombs, but much indicates that, in the coming period, we should also consider whether other types of ammunition that provide a large number of deadlockers should also be subject to stricter rules. Not least in relation to the so-called ML-RS ammunition, this is, as I understand it, an important issue. In my opinion, it is a prerequisite that we do not acquire ammunition that gives a greater proportion of deadweights than 1-2 pst, and I would like to ask the Council of State to comment on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e332	The work to reduce the suffering of the civilian population in armed conflicts is a particularly important humanitarian task. The international ban on the use of antipersonnel mines was thus a very important contribution to this work. Class bombers, like several of the speakers, have nearly the same effect as anti-personnel mines. And with the traditions of Norway as a leading country in international work in this area, it is important that we now move on to the task of getting an international ban on the use of class bombs. A national ban would be an important step in the right direction, and the Central Party would have liked us to have agreed to our original proposal. Having said that, I am very pleased that there is now a large majority in the Committee who are going further, who are taking important steps forward, and who are contributing to Norway's showing that we are willing to set important limits on limiting injuries to innocent civilians – often children. I am pleased that there is a majority in the Committee that states that the Government has taken action in connection with Norwegian military participation in Afghanistan should be taken into account in future international operations involving Norway. I am also pleased with – and there is reason to pay tribute to the Government for the willingness it has shown to follow up the previous decision of the Storting – the attitude the Government has taken regarding the use of this type of controversial weapon. I take it for granted that the Government sees Storting's connection to this line as an important support in limiting the use of controversial weapons. I assume that the Government both sees the importance of and shows the will to follow up this line in relation to achieving the ultimate goal: an international ban on the use of weapons with a high blindfold, as class bombs do. Only then are we at the goal of having done the job that is necessary to limit damage to the civilian population in armed conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e345	Several have not asked for the word within the allocated speaking time. Therefore, the speakers who speak hereafter have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e348	I had a little bit more left in the place that I didn't get taken, so I'll take it now. As I have said, I am very pleased with the large majority of the committee. It consists of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. We believe it is natural that the international work on restrictions is initially directed against class bombs that do not have effective self-destructive mechanisms, restrictions on the use of class bombs in densely populated areas, clean-up obligations, etc. The majority of the Committee states that they wish to continue the restrictions already in place and believes that the defence's obligation not to use class bombs in Afghanistan reflects a position on the use of such weapons which should be based on Norwegian participation in future international operations. In view of this, the majority do not consider it appropriate to introduce a national ban and the Stortinget is advised to attach Document No. 8:30 Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e358	Pretty short. Speakers from the SV and the Central Party have attempted to draw the majority’s opinion, expressed in the vote, beyond what is justified. I have also seen that there have been trends in the press. When SV says that this is a ‘long-range’ national ban, I need to make it clear that it stands in the vote what is the opinion of the majority by a continuous and repeated conclusion that the Storting is very satisfied with the way the Government deals with this matter. So there is no basis either to say that this is more than what the decision says, or that there is some sort of misunderstood compliment, that one is pleased that the Government shows the will to comply with the Stortinge decision. There's an underlying insinuation that, of course, is completely untimely. It was supposed to be missing, too. This is said by experienced representatives who know very well what measures would be taken if the Government did not comply with the Storting decision. It's unnecessary to say that, and it's incorrect to say that. Across the board, the treatment of the Grand Duchy has shown that the vast majority of the Grand Duchy follows the policy of the Government, on the basis of the decisions taken in the Grand Duchy, and the management and treatment of those decisions by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e365	With regard to the humanitarian part that has been mentioned here, no one disagrees that one should clean up and do it properly, to put it this way. But what we're talking about now is not the kind of bombs that have expired. We're talking about new modern technology, new laser-steered, self-destructive bombs. We're not talking about the bombs that almost fell last year. I think some of the representatives have misunderstood this, and what they're talking about is history. Now we're going to talk about what might be used in a war action. I expect the Council of State to say a few words at a time, and I want to ask her: To what extent does the Council of State define anti-personnel mines and class bombs as an important weapon in order to protect its own soldiers – i.e. Norwegian women and men in a war situation – compared to not being able to have a weapon that is internationally recognised and used in that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e372	This is actually a line to the Council of State, but I'm taking him in advance. What has emerged in the debate today is that there is a clear link between mines and cluster bombs. That is why we need legislation. We need conventions that are the same for both of them. We know that it's not on money or other resources when mines or class bombs are to be produced and laid out. Worse it will be when mining maps are laid out and cleaned up after the war. The president and I were in Sarajevo last year and got proper information about Norwegian People's Aid's mining project there. What they mostly lacked was money. They were lucky and got a couple of million dollars from Finland, so they could move on. They've been doing a very thorough and good job there for eight to ten years. We have to get the costs, not only for the civilian population, but also the one with the removal of the mines. The costs should also be borne by those who produce and invest these mines. If we don't get to such conventions and rules, we'll stop it. My question to the Council of State is then: What is the Council of State's assessment of the fact that the publisher of mines and class bombs also has an obligation to clean up afterwards? And what did the Council of State think about the status of the conventions governing these matters today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e383	I want to talk a little bit about some of the questions that have been raised in the debate. Among other things, I have issues related to initiatives concerning stockpiles advanced in Norway. To say that a deadline has been set for the withdrawal of certain defined weapon types from the forward stockpiles. I have full confidence and every reason to believe that the deadline will be met. There have also been questions about cargo ammunition and the relationship between cargo ammunition and class bombs. I was also very careful about that in the hearing. There is the essence that today's cargo ammunition has approximated 100 pst. reliability with regard to resetting deadliers, because a combination of high reliability with regard to ammunition and self-destructive mechanisms is available. You'll probably also have that for modern class weapons in the future, i.e. an approximate 100 pst. reliability in relation to what everyone agrees on is the problem, namely the blind-handedness. I also received a question related to the clearing of mines. There I share the vision of Bjorn Jacobsen. It would have been very nice if those who laid out the mines could also clean up after themselves. Norway is working hard to reach agreement in international conventions that there should not only be rules on the reliability of class weapons, but also rules and regimes related to clean-up. I also want to add that the Norwegian defense has made it a niche to clear mines after others. We have miners at sea, and we have miners at land. They are doing a very important humanitarian task, which is covered by the defence budget. After listening to the debate, you can sit with the impression that we are discussing two things. Some people use the word ‘class weapons’ as if it were only for the old class weapons with blindfold problems, and some use the word ‘class weapons’ as if it were only for the class weapons of the future, which would probably have the same approximate 100 pst. reliability as cargo ammunition. I think the way the committee setting has been designed is good, because it's just getting that there's a difference, that it's the old class weapons we're going to fight. As I said, Norway had only the old class weapons, which, of course, made it impossible to use them in Afghanistan. In the case of future solutions, the overall objective must be to minimise humanitarian damage. If it is that a weapon that has explosions in the chain, with precision, can do much less harm and have far fewer humanitarian adverse effects than one large bomb, then of course we will in the future choose one, a weapon that minimizes the humanitarian damage and that does not represent deadlocks. I think the committee has done a very good job. I also thank Enoksen for his honor in relation to the work that the Government has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e402	The President understands that Mr Jacobsen wants the floor. The president just wants to draw attention to the fact that there is no line change after three minutes of post, but Bjørn Jacobsen can get the word for a regular three-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e405	It is good that the President teaches me a little about the Rules of Procedure. The problem with the modern weapons is that they can probably be up to 100 pst. effective, i.e. have a low percentage of passers-by. But then we know that both mines and class bombs are created with the idea that they should not be detonated. What's one of them doing? Then one of the most effective things is to try to win the peace, that is, fear. It's the most effective thing. If one knows that there are such things out there, it creates enormous fear. We also know that both mines and class bombs are not created to kill, but that they should be perfectly fit to shoot off some hands and feet, just fit to take up all the hospital capacity, all the sanitary capacity that exists. We know that there are no limits to being speculated when it comes to creating modern weapons that don't kill directly, but that actually paralyze entire civil societies afterwards. It's not just saying that one should be able to keep a low level of weapons technology when it comes to the new, modern weapons. I'm afraid that technology is getting even worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e412	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1798]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e420	We are then going to vote on the matters listed on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e443	During the debate, Per Ove Width put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘It is appropriate to open the use of class bombs operated by air in practice and training in Norway in appropriate shooting and training fields.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-07.ana.ud1524e476	There is no record.
