ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e34	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e39	I suggest Gunnar Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e44	Gunnar Halvorsen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Gunnar Halvorsen is unanimously elected president of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e58	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 15 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Central Party, the Left and the Coastal Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group, and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e67	The most central content of Ot.prp. No 70 for 2002-2003, cf. Inner. O. No 19 for 2003-2004 is the opening up to municipalities and counties which themselves wish to do so a full right to compete either in whole or in part of their audit. Let me start by mentioning, for the sake of order, that the parties of government and the party of progress have agreed on all the essential points proposed in the proposal, and these parties thus ensure that the legislative proposal is adopted. So closer to the content of the matter. According to the applicable provisions of Section 60 of the municipal law, a private audit firm is prohibited from having to audit municipal or municipal activities. In other words, this is a protected public monopoly area today. According to today’s legislation, municipal or county audits must only be carried out by their own statutory auditor or by joint audit in an audit district, so-called district audit. It should be noted that the possibilities of using own or joint audits, as they are today, have been continued in the new legislative proposal. However, the new legislative proposal also opens up the possibility for private audit firms to carry out municipal accounting and administrative audits. It will also be permitted to choose a combination of the different audit solutions referred to in the proposition. Paragraph 60 of the Local Government Act, entitled «Internal supervision and control», is proposed to be repealed in its current form. Instead of existing Section 60, a completely new Chapter 12 of the Local Government Act is created, under the title «Internal supervision and control. This Chapter provides details of the responsibilities of the local and county councils, of the Supervisory Board, of the audit board, of the audit board, of the auditor’s independence and of the company control. As regards the proposal for amendments to the municipal law on supervision, control and audit in the municipal sector, I would like to congratulate the Ministry on providing a flexible solution to ensure significantly the freedom of choice and autonomy of the municipal sector. For it should be emphasised that the legislative proposal as adopted today does not in any way imply any obligation to post the audit in the local government sector. The legislative proposal only provides for a new option for municipalities and counties in the country to be able to put the accounting and administrative audit out of competition if you wish. Thus, the design of the bill is fully in line with the objective of safeguarding municipal autonomy. In the bill, the control committee is passed on as a mandatory, statutory body, as it is today. The new rule is that the Supervisory Board should consist of at least three members and that at least one member must be elected from the Municipal Council. It is also statutory that at any time during the electoral term, a new selection of the Audit Committee may be made. Furthermore, it is stated that the task of the Supervisory Board is to continue to be the continuous supervision of municipal and county administration on behalf of the local government and county council. It is an important intention with this amendment that the role and function of the control committee should be strengthened and highlighted better than hitherto. It will include, among others: placed a decisive emphasis on strengthening the supervisory role of the Supervisory Board in relation to the audit. A new step to strengthen the independence and supervisory role of the Audit Board in relation to the audit is that the auditor can no longer be the Secretary of the Audit Board, as it is today. For these reasons, the proposal places a crucial emphasis on creating greater independence and distance between the control committee and the auditor, precisely in order to strengthen the supervisory role of the Supervisory Board vis-à-vis the auditor. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People’s Party agree with this view and justify that the Audit Committee should ensure that the audit is satisfactory and that this implies an independence and a sufficient distance between the Audit Committee and the Auditor. If the auditor were to continue to be the secretary of the Audit Board, there might be doubts as to whether the Audit Board could strengthen its role as a supervisory function towards the auditor. When the ability of the municipal auditor to be the secretariat of the control committee has lapsed, it is important that the control committee continues to be provided with the necessary secretarial function. And it must be considered very important that the Control Committee has access to a high-level, relevant professional secretariat. Therefore, in order to ensure a secure secretariat function, the law provides that the local government and the county council are to provide the necessary secretarial assistance to the control committee. Whether, in order to meet this legal requirement, a private or intercommunal solution, or something else, is left to the municipalities to decide for themselves. And I'm not among those who believe that ensuring a good secretariat function for the Audit Board, to replace the current auditor system, is an insurmountable problem. Another fundamental theme is the right of the auditor and the audit board to have access to information. It must be emphasised that the statutory auditor must, of course, have free access to all necessary information and be able to communicate with both the Audit Board and others to the extent necessary to carry out the audit in a fully sound manner. It must also be emphasised that the choice of private audit solution should not prejudice the right of access of the audit committee to private auditor’s working documents. This must, where appropriate, be ensured in a fully sound manner by means of its own regulations. It is also statutory that the auditor has the right to meet and speak in the meetings of the Supervisory Board. In this way, communication between the control committee and the auditor is ensured, although the auditor may no longer be the secretary of the control committee. It is not proposed to make the statutory audit law applicable to the local government sector, inter alia. because that law prohibits the statutory auditor from being employed by the statutory auditor and that the local authorities do not have an accounting obligation under the Accounting Act. Nor has it been considered that there is a need for a separate law on municipal audit. It is considered sufficient to regulate this in the municipal law, as is now done, and to complement the law with regulations as needed. Questions have also been raised about who can be responsible auditor in accordance with the new rules. The bill states that if you want to, you can choose a two-part revision, where you can, for example: may select one responsible auditor for accounts and another responsible auditor for the more project-based management audit. In addition to this, no major changes other than those I have already mentioned in my article are proposed. The main features of today's legislation in the municipal law on supervision and control are generally continued in the new legal provisions, with the amendments mentioned. I also mention that it will not be opened up to the launch of competition control and auditing in the field of taxation. With regard to the respective views of the Workers' Party, SVs and the Centre's party on this matter, I assume that these themselves explain this in their articles. Therefore, I do not spend more time on the views of these parties than mentioning that these parties oppose the competitive outsourcing of municipal audits, among other things. because it is seen that the case is too poorly investigated and that audit is an area that is poorly competitive. Finally, I would like to take up from my side the proposals in the vote that are from the Committee's minority, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, and just for information, say that these parties constitute the Committee's minority – but they constitute the majority here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e118	The representative Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e121	The majority of the population today will follow up the Government's proposal to open up to the postponing of county and municipal audits. This matter is well incorporated in the ranks of the large project of the Cooperative Government, i.e. the postponing of competition and privatisation. To me, it's strange, but not surprising, that the Christian People's Party can be involved in this. It is a paradox that market liberalism is now expanding in areas where market thinking and competitive exposure are poor. The Labour Party is over-informed that the launch of municipal audit is such an area. The public audit has had a central position in the administration for all the years since we received popular government. At the time of the introduction of the local selfgovernment, the municipal audit was legalised as an important part of the internal control of the municipality and the county. Here in Stortinget it has always been stated that the municipal audit should be the control body of the local government, just as the Riksrevisionen is for Stortinget. I cannot see that it is in any way preferable to launch the audit. Firstly, the content of audit activities is very different in private businesses and in public administration. An important part of the tasks of municipal audit is a critical management audit. The municipal audit sees it as a central task for the audit to uncover economic regulation and criminality in the administration, and then bring such relations into the political powers. In addition, the municipal audit has certain supervisory tasks, including: to ensure that local authorities and a comprehensive so-called special legislation are complied with in the municipalities. The value of this task is increasing, including as a consequence of delegation of authority to the administration of the municipality. In the view of the Labour Party, good audit practices in private audit have quite different objectives and content than good municipal audit practices. The Labour Party believes that a private audit firm that has to carry out the audit in a municipality could easily have an unsustainable situation in relation to instability. We see that there may quickly be a situation where a private audit firm will sit on both sides of the table, as it is called. The largest enterprise in a municipality will usually be the municipality itself. In this way, the municipality is large, both as a customer and as a supplier of goods and services to the business community. In our opinion, it is obvious that a private audit firm will have difficulties if they take on a task both for the municipality and for the business community in the municipality. The government and the majority of the population have, of course, realized that it would be entirely unwise to leave the revision of the separate tax account to a private audit firm. It simply concludes paradoxically that the control of tax collection and accounting is to be transferred to the National Audit Office, which is both public and public. The government's proposal and legislative proposals, as well as the attitude of the government party and the Progress Party, have met with strong resistance from both municipalities, trade unions and the municipal audit community. So a little bit about the secretariat function of the control selection. The proposition reads on page 54 as follows: ‘It is clear that the Secretariat of the Municipal Control Committee must have access to a wide-ranging set of competences. For example, the scope of the Municipal Control Committee will be: often include problems raised by legal issues.’» And on the other hand, ‘For reasons of principle related to the independence of the Control Committee, this competence should not be part of the administration of the municipality.’;» The Government Party and the Progress Party support the Ministry's assessments in this area without having a clear opinion on how to resolve the secretariat function. The government and the majority of the population also conclude that today's municipal audit cannot take care of this secretariat as it does today. This means that the municipalities must thus establish other solutions. As the Labour Party sees this, this will not mean that one fulfils the intention of the bill to strengthen the control selection – rather the opposite. Today’s experience is markedly positive by the use of the audit as a secretariat. The establishment of an independent secretariat for the control selection raises some questions related to the economy, competence and municipal self-government. A private secretariat will become a new and pampering part of the municipal supervisory and control system. It is only the large municipalities that can defend having a person as a full-time secretary for the control selection. In smaller and medium-sized municipalities, it will be necessary to find people who can take this task part-time or cover several municipalities on a full-time basis. The cost of such an organisation is difficult to calculate, but at least it won't be free. The control selection is the local authority's own control body. From this perspective, the Labour Party concluded that the Secretariat must have an independent role in relation to the second part of the municipal administration. But this self-employment should not lead to secretarial solutions that put the whole control system in trouble. Because, in our opinion, it is not possible to meet the Ministry's wishes and requirements for 'access to a wide range of competences', as stated in the Proposition, in Norwegian municipalities if there are'single-member companies' who become secretaries of the control selection. The Labour Party believes to interpret the municipal minister and the government party there that they are very busy and adherents of the municipal self-government. My question is, Where has self-government become in this matter? Within the private audit, we have seen in the media that there have been several issues that have been highly critical in recent years. I don't know about such events from the municipal audit. If the municipalities are to have the freedom of choice they should have, as provided by the majority, both in relation to who is to be secretarial to the control selection and in order to ensure the quality of the audit services, a public oversight system should be established for the municipal audit. Such a state oversight system would probably be a better guarantee for good quality in the municipal audit than for individual control committees to carry out this work, as the majority propose. The Labour Party believes that it should be assessed whether the Credit Authority cannot have such a supervisory task. Private actors who take on the audit of a municipality will not be subject to public and administrative law. The working party is concerned that, in the absence of such transparency, the audit committee’s ability to oversee private auditors will be significantly weakened. Most people will also not be able to access the postal records of private auditors or in incoming and outgoing correspondence. This will reduce transparency, and at the same time it will weaken more than increase confidence in the management. Finally, I have to say a little wonder that the majority of the population today will be in favour of changes in the law that will lead to more bureaucracy, greater public spending and unnecessary use of the money for taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e169	I feel that the case rapporteur, Torbjørn Andersen, has taken care of the many good reasons that speak for the proposals in Ot.prp. No 70 for 2002-2003. It is worth noting that there have been no significant changes in the municipal self-control system introduced by the Municipal Law of 1992. Apart from the proposal to allow municipalities to decide to outsource audit services, the main features of the legislation remain unchanged. The core content of this legislative proposal is to facilitate the competitive launching of municipal audits. Discussions in the Proposition on the principle of opening up the audit to competition are, to a large extent, a reflection of the assessments made in the municipalproposition in spring 2002 — and the consultation note — more closely linked to the legislative proposal. The main emphasis is on a fundamental assessment and emphasis on the fact that the issue of competitive outsourcing is something that local authorities themselves must be allowed to decide. I share the view of the Ministry and very many others that there is not access to the competitive environment that requires special justification, but that there should be no access to the competitive environment. For me, it is therefore very important to stress that the draft law of the Ministry does not impose an obligation on the municipalities to launch the audit, only to open up such a new opportunity in the municipal law. A part of the municipal audit in Norway has, in the past, probably reminded a lot of about a purely annexal check, but it should be said that the municipal audit has been in good shape in many areas of development and is ready to adapt to new demands and needs. Competence has been upgraded, although many, perhaps in particular smaller municipalities, have discovered that it is simply not possible to keep up with their own top competence in all areas of municipal activity. It has stimulated cooperation between municipalities in district audits, thus increasing the professional breadth and strengthening the auditor's competence. Therefore, the municipal audit is in many places very well equipped to meet competition, both from the audit of other municipalities and from private actors. I would also like to mention the fact that many municipalities have for a long time made use of liberalised organisational models, such as: companies of different types and foundations. Developments in recent years appear to be moving towards the ever-increasing use of liberalised forms of organisation. In Ot.prp. No 70 discusses the control and supervision of released organisational models. It is not proposed to legislate that the administrative audit should be compulsory in municipally owned companies, but that this should be up to the owner to assess himself, and the owner will be the municipality in this case. However, it is proposed to facilitate the control and transparency of the municipal companies for the local authority’s own control bodies, the control committee, and the auditor auditing the municipality. The bill is a parallel to the Riksrevision's access to control of the state's companies. I agree with the department that it would lead too far to give equivalent access to company control also for companies that have private and state ownership alongside municipalities. This would give the municipalities a special advantage, compared to the other owners, which it is difficult to justify. With regard to the possible challenges of coordinating transparency and control in companies with several owners, I also believe that it would be entirely appropriate to entrust the coordination of this to the local authority itself. I have short and good confidence that you will be locally interested in finding the best solutions for yourself, as a municipality, and its inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e182	SV is strongly opposed to the bill that the Government has invited us to adopt today. There are both fundamental and practical reasons for that. The principals go to the heart of why we think you shouldn't do this. It is because this is control of the public administration tasks and how the elected and their employees manage the public interest through the management control, and the legal conditions therefor. The core of this activity is not business activities, but the management and legal relationship with the public interest. The SV also understands that the main reason for this on the part of the Government and the majority is purely in principle; it wants to open up more and more areas of business for private activities. It's a heart issue for this government. It is a desire to be brought into the public sector and thereby to have a wider business area and a greater profit. I join the post that was made by the Labour Party representative. It also largely covers SV's views. But I want to get into some of the points. The minority in Stortinget, of which SV is part, believes that we should postpone this. There's a lot of reasons for that. Among other things, three investigations have now been initiated, in various areas, which go to the heart of what this matter is about. One is an investigation into the application of the Public Health Act to private operators. It will provide an opportunity to provide transparency to private actors. That investigation was announced in the fall. We believe that we'd gone to some of the core of this. Some of the problems raised by other speakers here are transparency in the auditor’s internal working documents, which must be a clear precondition for the functioning of the Audit Board. The other end of this case discusses whether the Riksrevision should have full transparency of what is going on in the Government's internal documents. That's the other side of it. Obviously, it's important that there is full transparency in everything that matters to public opinion, whether it's municipal or it's state-owned, because otherwise you can't trust that control is correct. So the second investigation is an investigation into the organisation of tax collection. That study will be available in the spring of 2004. Nevertheless, the government chooses to run this case as if it were an urgent matter, and in connection with that one will have to find a solution in terms of the tax charge, which in some way results from the desire to do so, and then you tear that question away from the whole. The third investigation is the major investigation on State supervision of the municipal sector, which will also be completed in 2004. All of these three investigations are at the heart of both transparency and control and are at the heart of the areas that are and should be a public administration task rather than a private business area. But this government has done it a little bit too habit not to care about selections that have been put down. In this way, in our view, the sample is kept a little too silly, both those who work there, and others who have been invited, who say that we should not put down a sample in this area, because this is an important and necessary case to get well-established. And then you connect to it, and then you figure out that you're going to do something about sub-elements of this. This is what happens in areas by area. On the SV side, we believe that there is a need to strengthen supervision and control of public activities. There is also a need to strengthen supervision and control of private business activities, because we have a complex and detailed society with many rules and many different actors and often difficult to understand without a high level of competence in this area. Of the themes that have been discussed, problems surrounding the setting up of a separate secretariat for the control committee have been raised. The government assumes that this secretariat can no longer be provided either by the administration of the municipality or by the auditor, and that a separate secretariat must be set up next to it. This, of course, must be manned with good competence in order to be operational in relation to the great and difficult task they will have. I understand that the reasoning has been that this Secretariat should assist the Audit Board and that the Audit Board will be supervised by both the auditor and the auditors. In order to extend these reasoning, there must be an audit to re-check this Secretariat, which must then have its own auditor, who is to re-check it. If you argue like the Government and the majority do here, you're going to snap your tail, because you don't see that the auditor and the audit and the quality assurance of the auditor must be at the heart of what we're going to rely on in these matters, whether it's the municipal audit, whether it's the National Audit Office, or whether it's the law that other audits have to deal with. All the practical difficulties with this have been encountered by others, and there is no doubt that even more inspectors and even more administrative staff are established here. Of course, many municipalities will do this together, but if this is the most useful thing to do to get better accounts in the administrative audit in the municipalities, SV is very sceptical. When it comes to accessing documents, I've been involved. We believe that it is completely unacceptable if the inspection committee does not have full access to all the documents relating to the matter that they are set to verify. Therefore, the Public and Administrative Act must apply, and then we are faced with one of the core problems of how to apply them to a private audit firm. So there's a fundamental reason to say no to open up to private auditing of local authorities' accounts. Another thing that is important is that the government opens up the possibility of using different audit firms for different parts of the audit, both the purely accounting audit and the administrative audit. Then we are at the heart of what is the benefit of the public sector, and some of what is to be the task of a local government, and where the control committee has a role on behalf of the local government, namely to see the whole thing in things. It may be that part of the municipality can go through a deficit, while another part of the municipality can generate money. The local government is set to look at the whole thing, so you can get a message from the one audit that this is going badly, here you have to tighten up. Then you can get a completely different picture from another part of another revision. So you're missing the total overview of how this is going to be. We believe it is important that those who are to revise a municipality both accounting and administrative should have the task as a whole, so that they are able to carry out the audit in relation to the contracting entity, which is the local government – it is not a board of a limited liability company that should only look at the bottomlines – and which should look at the social benefits of the whole of the municipal audit. SV will therefore vote against the Government’s proposal. I would also like to mention the SV's proposal in the vote that we want administrative audits to be carried out in all municipal companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e215	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e218	It's rare that I have 10 minutes of speaking time and really don't need to use it. I think this thing has come out of proportion. There have been many requests and protests to me too. But the case is not about imposing a charge on the municipalities, at least in a small way. Freedom, freedom to decide, even if municipal audits are to be put out for competition. A local government can say, "Yes, we do. Let's think about it. The audit will be better, perhaps there will be a better distance between management and control. They may need a new look. Someone might want a new cost or a new culture. There may be several reasons. Or local government can conclude that what they have is best: We are naked. The citizens are well lit with public audit. We're not changing anything. It may be most of the decisions that will be made like this. The freedom to choose for yourself gives the Christian People's Party to the municipalities. I think they'll manage him wisely. The local government representatives have insight, and they have reason, and they have the right, those who have written letters to me, change few or no municipalities their audit. It's okay for the Christian People's Party. We have chosen to outsource many different services. We even have hospitals that are exposed to competition. We have road construction, we have maintenance, and we have purchases. Many important areas of society are exposed to competition. It would be strange if municipal audit were to be the service that private people couldn't do. I see some problems. That the Secretariat function of the control selection now has to be independent of the audit is another problem for someone. I believe that the current system has worked very well in practice. All the requests I have received underline exactly that. Now small municipalities also need to search for a competence that is not necessarily easily available. In principle, however, it is a point that the secretarial function is independent. Stability is important, especially in these areas, and the large extra costs cannot be triggered. The secretariat function has been paid, including today. A number of the Committee have requested that individual municipalities be granted a derogation from the new scheme during an transitional period. I think the department should manage the liberal. I think that's wise. I have another area that I think may be a problem. The last speaker was in on it. The Christian People's Party naturally believes that it is important that he or she carrying out audits be guaranteed access to all relevant information and documents. It's very important. We believe that this is the product and should be taken care of. If that is not the case, we must make sure that it is, but we believe that it is taken care of in the Law § 78, paragraph 6. Of course, it is also necessary to ensure transparency in all areas. That's why we have public authority. They're going to secure it. It's also taken height for it in the comments from the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party, i.e. the plurality of this hall, and in what's coming from the department. I think we can take care of that. I would also like to point out to the case-speaker's post, where he took care of the options and the restrictions that actually exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e237	Proposals to open up to the launch of municipal audits seem to be characterised by more urgency than by a revised legislative change. At the same time as the Stortinget is handling this matter, a three public statements relevant to the case were made: the use of the public law against private operators, the organisation of tax collection and the state supervision of the municipal sector. The centre party believes that there are strong countermeasures for the launch of competition in this area. Today, we have well-functioning district audits throughout the country. Whether to change it should be in order to ensure even better quality and efficiency. We can't see that's going to be the case. There is a clear risk of increased bureaucracy, less efficiency and so much more expensive services. The importance of freedom of action and efficiency are fundamental to any revision. The relationship with the local administrator is particularly demanding for the person carrying out the municipal audit. Knowledge of local circumstances, advice on administration and political leadership, the ability to see accounting audit and management audit in conjunction and the ability to see the risk factors in the annual accounts indicate that the current model is preferable to the possibility of fragmentation of services and thus the lack of synergies between the different audit tasks. We are surprised that the Government, which sought this change, cannot say yes to the hearing authorities' desire for a state supervisory system, and together with the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party can propose such a system. The Central Party has noted that the Government is flagging the revision of the Action Plan against financial crime. It is one of several measures in cooperation with the Municipal Audit Office. Now the Government itself is weakening this cooperation by means of the Progress Party. So the government party would say that this law change does not involve any imposition. So there's a possibility of a choice for the municipalities. That's understood. Here, however, are so many unsolved questions at this point that it had begun not least to honour the Christian People's Party to ensure a postponement of this matter until the three parallel public selections were finished. When it comes to the question of the secretariat of the control selection, the government is going against the path of municipal self-government. Surprisingly, they suggest to many heavy hearing authorities that each municipality should now have a separate secretariat for the control selection. This requires double detection in terms of time and competence, in relation to today's system, and in an area where sufficient competence is difficult. It may look like a haphazard grip to push smaller municipalities into the launching and privatisation of a secretariat that the municipalities are currently managing. The central party's other foundations for accepting these legal changes are set by the setting. The majority of the Committee, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre have together provided well-founded comments on our position. It is, in our view, far more important tasks that local authorities should now be encouraged to spend time and effort on, than to discuss whether to set up audit schemes that are exempt from public health and administrative law. Finally, the OECD reports that the trend in the outsourcing and privatisation of public services is on the way back in many countries. There are studies that tell of increased bureaucracy, inefficiency, weakening democracy and, in addition, many of these services seem to eventually become quite expensive. When it comes to auditing, there can actually be no doubt about that. The government should take note of these reports in a much larger context. So in the end, I listened to Apelthun's contribution from the representative. It wasn't the embassy she's performed with the most finds and hugs. Then I'll just give it advice: it's still time, and it's possible to make sure that multiple numbers are out of the question. There is a proposal on this which the Christian People's Party is advised to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e264	Privatizing to privatize has very little to do with practical policies, but is based on a political idea. Now you're not going to have any political ideas, because without them, we have no social debate. They are the basis for both debate and development. The right-hand side of Norwegian policy wants to leave as much public services as possible to private individuals. That's the right-hand side project. This is not something they have come creeping with after the election. This is what they have flagged. This is their policy. On the left, we have the political idea that we believe it is appropriate and sensible that public, and where appropriate, in cooperation with NPISHs, are themselves responsible for the development and operation of these social services. Here we are facing a very clear political distinction. There are clear lines of distinction between the right and the left of Norwegian policies in this area. So when the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to leave to private to run schools, health institutions and provide care, it's not something that should surprise us. Historically, we may be a little bit surprised that the Christian People's Party is involved in such a development, but today that is the situation. So you can ask, is there any reason to be surprised that you are now opening up the privatisation of the municipal audit? Yes, it is, because this is about official control activities. In the past, for my part, I understood it so that here went the limit of privatisation, also for the Progress Party and for the Right. So it's amazing that you're crossing this boundary. Municipal audit is, of course, much more than reviewing private activities. The assessment of results, cost-effective operation, achievement of objectives, compliance with decisions taken and compliance with statutory tasks, etc. are part of those activities of the administration. It requires a special competence, a competence that we in the vast majority of municipalities and counties now have in place, and which is further developed. Today, cooperation between municipal audits and other public oversight and control bodies is taking place, for example: the Equation Office. The corruption disclosures in Oslo at the end of the 1980s are a very good example of how this worked and how it works. It is very difficult to see how communication and cooperation could have taken place if there had been a private actor who had been in charge of the audit here. The major audit firms are in line to acquire this competence. I'm pretty sure of that. The foundation, culture and thinking, etc. will be changed in this work. I think it's a little sad that we're now probably going to change a system that works well, make a change that probably won't lead to any cost savings, rather the opposite. And it will also increase bureaucracy. It is surprising that, in particular, the Progress Party does not see this development. At my best we now get a system that is not only getting worse, but also becoming more expensive. The secretariat question is not clarified, just suggested, but it is quite certain that it will cost. This audit is a public responsibility, and no one, nor the majority in this room, believes that we can buy away from such a responsibility. I therefore assume that the specialist councils, which I understand, will have the word after me, among other things. may confirm that rules of procedure under the Administrative and Public Administration Act are to be included in the regulation, irrespective of the model chosen. I believe that what is adopted today will not strengthen this control system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e283	I am pleased that, in any case, this debate has cleared up what has been misunderstood in parts of the Committee's majority voting, but which is the majority of the European Parliament, namely that it is decided to go in to compete in the municipalities. The question here is to open up competition. So it's a question of giving local democracy a new choice. This is the only area where local democracy cannot compete. The only rule of law that is actually in today's law is that you can't put municipal audit on the market. You can't put this out for competition. If there are major ideological differences between the right and left sides of this question and all the major problems that are now being drawn up, that municipal audit will not work well if you launch competition, if it is that there will be more crime, if you do not want to detect corruption and all the other big cities, then I will ask the question why it is that in Denmark, Sweden and Finland you have the opportunity to use audit firms. They have control bodies where there are selected auditors who buy services from others, just in this area. I must actually be allowed to say that I think the dimensions of what is now perceived as the consequences of choosing something else are not proportionate to the consequences of the proposal that has been made. In the consultation round that we had in connection with this bill, we chose not to address the issue as a question of local democracy, but as a question of local government should be able to choose. We believe that the main purpose of this is to allow local authorities to choose other actors if they want to. Local authorities have wanted this and have experienced that they have not been able to launch the audit as a coercion. I would like to remind you that when this was promoted as a proposal from the Right in the previous magnification period, it was on the basis of a municipal government decision in the municipality of Granvin, which therefore wanted such a scheme. They felt that they were forced into a district audit at that time, making it too expensive in relation to the audit needs they thought they had. So they felt like they would have tried this in the market to see if others could do a better job. That's the starting point for this bill, not ideological belief in or desire to compete as much as possible. It's a local democracy desire to have access to try to do it. So that's the question that someone here thinks this isn't well enough solved. That's how sometimes we have to take things step by step. If we're not going to be able to do anything without seeing everything in a context, it usually results in nothing being done. Those who say that they want to investigate the matter more and more, and that it is not well established, will just have to admit that their motive is that they do not want it. Therefore, they use alternate objections as to why they don't want to. None of the three investigations that have been referred to are investigations that are crucial to the audit system for municipalities, but they affect aspects of it, to which we come back. If we were to have this requirement to have clarified all the aspects of a change, including those that are marginally considered, it could be set against the fact that then this increase would have to completely stop dealing with Document No. Eight proposals for implementing laws and regulations. Some of the main challenges associated with it have rarely been seen. In this context, it might be interesting to point out that in the NOU we had in 1990 as the basis of today's municipal law, there were 12 aspects related to audit and audit and control functions. Now there is basically an odelstungsproposition on 113 pages, which is the most thorough review of the control and audit system in the municipalities that have ever been presented to the Stortinget. It provides a significant boost, as well as considerations and views related to how municipal audits are to be carried out. I want to say that I think that many of the objections that have arisen are largely based on self-interest from the hearing bodies, and not based on real objections to making choices. I want to link it to the fact that there is a development in audit in private companies. Of course, the audit is doing an important job in terms of crime and internal corruption. There are just a few of the things that the audit is helping to reveal in the Norwegian business community. It is not that the audit of private companies is merely annexed to the accounts, but there has actually been a significant development in the management audit of business activities. You have the skills to do it. In any case, this is primarily a matter of transferring power, so that municipal politicians can make this choice. We should have confidence that they can do that. I have some comments on a few of the points that are corrected. I think the question of transparency is an important and interesting question, but that it is a mix of issues. The Public Service Committee deals with questions of public access, not of local authority access. The main topic of discussion has been public transparency in relation to some issues. What I am concerned about, of course, is that the municipality should have a right of access to all the private purchases they make in the future. When private services of this type are provided to citizens on behalf of municipalities, services purchased by municipalities, I think it is important to have transparency, but I do not think it is particularly important to have resolved this before opening up the competition to municipal audits. As far as the tax area is concerned, I'm a little bit surprised by some of the arguments here. Why should it be such that the work against the black economy is weakened that the Riksaudition is given responsibility for the control of the tax accounts? Do we have such a degree of distrust of the Riksrevision's ability to carry out the type of control work that they cannot do so in the same way as the municipalities do today? It is not that the control should not be carried out, but that the control should be transferred to the Riksrevision, which is the body of the Storting. Then it is quite important to stress that the majority of this control is not about the income of municipalities, but about the income of the state. If we are to continue the argument that the principle that we should review our own income is broken, I would say that today we are breaking it by the fact that the municipalities are essentially revising the state's income. 2/3 of the tax revenue audited by municipalities is the income of the country. So until what Karin Andersen said was related to state supervision. It is such that we agree that we should assess the issue of whether a State control oversight should be established of the audit carried out by municipalities and county councils under the municipal law. We believe that to happen, regardless of the outsourcing or not. That's what the law selection is going to do. But that's how we reduced the sample after we had made it clear that this reform came. No one can claim that that sample when it was reduced did not know that we had a proposal to enable the municipalities to have an audit. So we're going to have a review of it. I think it would be strange if we were to say that it was at all connected that there had been some sort of breach of the assumptions of the persons who were appointed to the sample, that they had been appointed after it was clear that this proposition would be promoted for the Storting. I think in many ways it's okay to have a principleal attitude. I think it's good to say that you don't think this is an important matter, that you don't want the municipal politicians to be allowed to take this election, that you think they're not able to make this election, and that it's too bureaucratic. But to say that this isn't properly investigated, and to use a number of public samples, which have peripheral details related to the issue, as a deferral basis, I think it's up to use procedural restrictions to prevent political choices from being made. It is quite clear that we have agreed that it is a good idea for local democracy to be strengthened. It should be able to be strengthened in the same way as local democracy in Finland, Denmark and Sweden has been strengthened by their ability to attract different competences and to use different types of audit than self-employed or district auditors.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e318	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e321	The bill states that the local authority should be responsible for providing a defence secretariat to the control committee. It cannot be taken care of by the local authority or the administration of the municipality, of course. All municipalities are now required a good secretarial solution, regardless of whether they are competing with the audit. Local authorities are critical of this, not least in view of the additional costs they will receive. My question is, how does it harmonize with the fact that municipalities are allowed to decide for themselves? In its statement, the Council of State calls it giving more power to the municipalities. Is this in line with the principles underlying municipal self-government, and how does it harmonize with Right's slogans on more for money?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e328	An important part of the basis for saying whether you get more money back or not is the question of having cleanness in roles and transparency in transactions. In fact, I believe that having a non-audit secretarial function in the control committee also means that, of course, the control committee – someone said earlier that it was strange that they should have a responsibility to be sure that the audit was good enough or one – should be responsible for whether the audit is good enough or one, and it is important to have an independence from such a secretariat. I fully agree that this could probably lead to some municipalities having to reorganize and think differently in relation to what they have done in the past. I see it as important that you have roles and roles that are independent of each other. In fact, I do not agree that it should necessarily be a good arrangement that you have it the way you do today, that it is the revision that serves as the secretariat of the control committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e335	I record that the Council of State believes that there is a strict procedure when one wants to hear what a sample says. One of the key points here is what happens to the tax accounts as a result of the government wanting to privatize municipal audits. It follows that something had to be done here, because you saw that you couldn't privatize this. And here, there's a huge selection of people working. Does the Council of State think that there is a procedural restriction when you have a desire to look at this wide? And the second question is that the Council of State does not understand what is at the core, that this is done most effectively at the lowest possible level, as it is today. There is good quality in the work, including: the local knowledge of municipal auditors has been essential for the commissioning process. You can just look at the results, and you'll see that. In addition, I would like to ask the Council of State to investigate how the Riksaudition is going to do this, because as they work today, there will be a much more summary control than the municipal audit stands for in today's system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e342	I believe there is a big difference in who is going to revise the tax accounts in the municipality, i.e. the tax collection in the municipality, and who is actually doing the tax collection. There are two different things, which I think it's important to separate. I don't think the two things are related, that we should basically stand in the way of allowing the municipalities to assess a competitive outsourcing, or that it is a problem to transfer responsibility for controlling the tax accounts themselves. Maybe it can actually also give a better control over the long term that the state takes over, without necessarily doing anything about the tax collection side itself. That's another question, and I think it's a pretty pervasive question compared to what's this bill. And that it's a procedural restriction – no, it's an excuse, politically, to say that there's procedural reasons why you don't want to look at it. I think SV can be fair and say that they do not want a competitive outsourcing. That's why they're going to go against it – and then they're making objections on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e347	There is an expression called "knowing another one" on its own. It comes to me when I belong to the Council of State now. She has a position, and then she finds the arguments on the path. Here, the Labour Party and SV and the Center Party have our very tidy. We've said why we're opposed, and then we've found reason, because there are heavy instances that point out that there are three parallel selections that are now working, while the council here comes with a billing proposition that she's very happy with herself, because he's so long, with many sides. I want to give her the opportunity to elaborate on her view that municipal audit units and private auditors are given equal terms in relation to the public and administrative law, and whether she believes that it is an advantage that they have a different relationship with the media. Does she think that it would weaken or strengthen trust in the management that the eelment does not have any transparency in the mail records of private auditors or in incoming or outgoing correspondence?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e356	I want to make it clear that there are three parallel samples. They do not affect this field, but there is a side effect of what they have to do, which can cause and affect border areas and individual areas associated with the legislative proposal. I believe that there is a level playing field between market players. I admit that we still have a round to go on the transparency bit of the papers. There is a general question about the transparency of several aspects of the municipal audit, but not just of the municipal audit — for example: purchases of services and related decision-making processes. It's a work that's going on, and we need to sign out more. But I don't think it's crucial in relation to this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e363	First two words about this with the investigation: One thing should be as well investigated as practicable, and if the Stortinget or part of the Stortinget finds that the matter is not, then it is enough because it is not, and then I warn against a reasoning that says you are against, but that the investigation really does not matter. I don't think there's any reasonable way to approach it. I would like to ask the Council of State: if private individuals are involved in these roles and take over parts of the municipal audit, will it be stated in the regulation that they are to work in their proceedings under the provisions of the Administrative and Public Administration Act? Is it possible to get this in, is it formally possible, and will it be so that these provisions will apply to the private persons working on behalf of the municipality here?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e371	We have a work going on in terms of the municipality’s right of access – it is related to the question of how the municipalities get transparency. The second question that I now see being asked is whether the public will be given access to the work being done. So it's at the heart of the Public Law Committee, and we're going to make sure that this issue is well-explained in relation to this and other types of public service that private people have to do, so that we have similar practice in all areas. We have not seen a need to specifically regulate the transparency of audit firms until the work of the Public Service Committee has been completed, and we have seen the whole of it. We believe, as I said, that this is not crucial to this matter, but we agree that it is a problem issue. We're concerned with transparency, and we're concerned about having equal treatment opportunities. But here we've reduced a public sample that's going to go into this ratio as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e378	Now, the Council of State refers again to a public body that has been set up and which will clearly look at something in this context. And at the moment that this government finds out that there's a piece of what they want to put forward, they're doing it, detached from the context. It's a problem. After all, when we're involved in tax accounting and tax collection, it's because it's part of a whole. There's a public selection investigating it, and SV, as a party in the Stortinget, has a legitimate interest in seeing it as a whole. I have to say that I react to the Council of State saying that it is an excuse. In SV's articles, we clearly said that we had fundamental objections to this, just as we perceive that the Council of State has principled views in favour of competitive outsourcing and privatisation. So it has to be a legitimate thing. But then to the question: if the National Audit Office is going to do this revision of the tax accounts, they are now using a more summary approach, where local authorities' accounts become interim accounts, so that only some of them will be reviewed each year. Is it so that the Council of State can now assure us that this will be reviewed differently from the Riksrevision's procedure for such matters today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e387	Let me say that so I'm going to modify my points of view. What provoked me in the original article of Karin Andersen was the considerations that when we set up a selection of supervisors after we have announced this nodule proposition, that sample should have been treated poorly in some way. In fact, we choose to move on with an odelstingsproposition – I think almost it was promoted in the Stortinget in advance. It seemed to me to be intriguing the question of how much we should have to assess, and it would have given a total paralysis of action for a government if one were to base all such relationships before dealing with anything. So the question of the revision of the tax accounts. I don't really want to say now that we're going to change the Riksrevision's processes in that area, because I think one of the good modernisations we've done in terms of tax work is that we're going to take off at random intervals, and then we're going to check it out. So we're going to spend our resources on auditing and tax work where we have the most to collect in terms of tax evasion, and not so that everything that's happened before, necessarily has to be done the same way even if we shift responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e394	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e399	This debate has gone into two blocks, or departments. One is an attempt to make this a major ideological issue, and the other is, in my opinion, an attempt to construct a number of remarkable problems. There are virtually no limits to the accident that will affect land and people if this is decided here today. I think it all seems something sought after. Otherwise, I cannot resist the temptation to point out a remarkableness in the majority position, page 2, where it says: ‘When the audit firm was reconstructed after the Second World War, it was stated from Stortinget’s side that the municipal audit should be the control of its local government in the same way that the Riksrevision controls Stortinget.’ It was completely new to me that the Riksrevision controls Stortinget! In fact, it is the Stortinget who has the Riksrevision as its head of government and administration. So I think it's a little special that you get hurt to write something like that, and at the same time invokes cleanliness in this case. Independence is essential for an auditor. In relation to the fundamental principle of independence, there is reason to think through whether or not a self-employed auditor sits in the City Hall with colleagues whom he is set to review and eats in the canteen together with colleagues whom he naturally gets a very close and close relationship with human beings – clearly – ensures the independence that it is important for an audit to and must have. I think it's important to have a necessary and good distance between the audited and those to be audited. Otherwise, I want to point to a point that concerns me a little bit about just how the law is formed. There is access to the selection of a new control committee during the period. It has to be practiced with caution. It also clarifies the government parties and the Progress Party in its comments, because it can be very easy to use it as a convenient tool for a majority who seem to exercise a little too close control and are a little too zealous in the service. Such decisions at local level must well be presumed to be subject to the rules of legality control and, in the case of the entire control committee, not individual members, may be replaced.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e415	In general, I am so that the private company can provide services for municipalities and county councils, and so on. That is why it is very important that we have control bodies that have integrity and independence. This applies to both the control selection and the audit. In the comment on page 2 of the setting, the minority states that there is no requirement for municipalities to post the audit. And then there's a comment from the same minority, on page 8: ‘It is clear from the bill that municipalities are free to choose how to organise their audit system.’ This is okay. I am also pleased that one goes in to strengthen the control selection's position. If this option is to become real, and if you really want to strengthen the control selection's position, the selection must have free hands to select a secretary. The revision manager may then be enabled in case a municipality wants to choose the solution. This will mean that the regulation is designed accordingly. The control selection and the audit shall be a guarantee to people that public administration is right. My experience with control selections is that we now have a municipal audit with a high level of professional standards. Through this treatment, we must ensure that that competence is not lost. One element to be assured is the right to have access to the control selection. There have been several people here today. This also applies in the auditor's documents. This must be in place, the choice should be real. In short, it must also be opened for the transparency of private auditors’ documents if access to municipal and county audit tasks is to be granted. That's absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e431	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e447	I will get an error in the setting on page 2, second column. The wording of the proposal proposed by the Committee on amendments to Paragraph 40 shall be identical to the text of the proposal for a decision under Roman numeral II contained in the vote. Otherwise, this is a unanimous attitude, which comes from the fact that a deadline has been set for the conversion of intercommunal companies, but one now wants to leave that deadline. A sample has been set up to look at how this is to be done in the future, and that is when we want to extend the deadline. The Committee has agreed with the Government. At the same time, during the examination of the case, we received a call from a lawyer who has pointed out that there are special issues related to the payment of the document fee when re-registration took place, which could appear to be a bit out of proportion to where one was in the loop regarding the transformation. It has been corrected by the Committee and the Government has agreed to this. That is why it is a unanimous position on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e460	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 149]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e468	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e475	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Right, the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 5, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e732	The President will propose that the vote be taken first on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Section 77 of the Community Act new No. 6 shall be replaced by the following:The control committee shall ensure that administrative audits are carried out in companies referred to in the first paragraph of Section 80, unless the company carries on business. Paragraph 77 shall become paragraphs 6-10. 7-11.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e751	As an alternative, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1, 2, 3, and 4, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Section 77 of the Community Act. 4 and 5 are replaced by the following:4. The Audit Board shall ensure that the accounts of the municipality or county are audited in a satisfactory manner. In addition, the Audit Board shall ensure that financial management is monitored in accordance with the applicable provisions and decisions and that systematic assessments of economic, productivity, achievement of objectives and effects are carried out on the basis of decisions and assumptions of the local government or county council. [[Administrative audit]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Section 77 of the Community Act. 10 and 11 are replaced by the following:10. The local authority and county council shall provide secretarial assistance to the control committee.11. The Ministry may lay down rules laying down detailed rules on the functions and procedures of the Supervisory Board. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘Section 78 of the Community Act. 3 and 4 are replaced by the following:3. The local authority or county council shall decide whether to employ its own auditors, participate in inter-municipal cooperation on audit, or agree with other auditors. The decision shall be taken on the basis of the adjustment made by the control committee.4. The local authority or county council selects the auditor itself. The decision shall be taken on the basis of the adjustment made by the control committee. § 78 nr. Paragraphs 6–9 become Paragraph 78(1). 5 to 8.’; Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘In Law 17 July 1925 no. 11 if Svalbard is amended as follows: the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 44 shall be replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e811	It shall then be added to the other paragraphs, paragraphs and sentences under I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e866	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e876	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e901	B, C and D shall be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e955	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e965	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28-lower.ana.ud168e976	There is no record.
