ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e32	The representatives of Rune J. Skylaaen, Heikki Holmås and Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Erlend Nornes, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e51	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e56	I suggest Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e61	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e79	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose exemptions from the first paragraph of Section 37 of the Storting Rules of Procedure by giving access to replies, but so that replies are limited to a maximum of one minute each. It is proposed to give rise to a succession of lines up to three one-minute lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each group and up to five one-minute lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e92	I should first fix a bug in the configuration. The correct number of non-commercial rentals shall be 3000 to 4000 in the proposal for a decision of the majority, not 3000, as stated on pages 8 and 12 of the option. The first sentence of IV is replaced by the following: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide full funding of 30 pst. grants for the purchase or construction of 3000 to 4000 non-commercial rental dwellings for young and economically disadvantaged annual.’;» It's the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party that are behind the 12 points of the Committee setting. If VIII is adopted, the Government is required to draw up a contingency plan for housing for the homeless in connection with the revised 2003 national budget. It is a national shame that in 2003 we have no longer come when it comes to securing a home to all those who need it more than many others. It is true that ‘Project homeless’ is good for those who are able to participate in it. However, it is becoming too odd for the individuals who enter the number 6 200, the individual who would immediately have a stable base to orient their daily lives from. It also becomes too odd when you know what tasks the municipalities are already struggling with, and how important it is to secure both the housekeeping and the follow-up that are necessary for a large number of those involved. In fact, it should also be important for such a government plan to focus on the elimination of poverty. If paragraph XI of the Recommendation is adopted, the Storting also commissions a review of the stowage arrangements for changes from 1 January 2004. Let me remind you of the following: Denmark and Finland will receive 21 pst. by household under a housing scheme, the corresponding figure for Sweden is 12 pst. Should be 20 pst. cf. Correction by the representative, page 1558 and for Norway 6 pst. Is it not reasonable that e.g. Lene Chatrin Hansen, mentioned in the Newspaper today, even if she manages 28 m2 for her poor family? Isn't it reasonable that we're now looking at the one-person households that come out skeptical even if they're not the minimum pensioners? And isn't it reasonable that couples without children are also included in the support scheme? Flows in current costs are also a point that the multiple points to a number of others. I believe that Christmas weekend has shown us how necessary that is. I want to encourage as much as I can, both the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party, today to evaluate the vote for points VIII and XI. The government has announced a plan for a closer look at these two points of the big shot coming to the fall. We think it's too late not to do anything about these two areas right now. Bondevik I ordered a private public statement on the housing market and housing policy. Last 15 February, the Wibe Committee presented its opinion, a comprehensive evidence of the situation on the housing market, with both a rationale and concrete proposals for a series of measures that could lead to enhanced housing policy efforts. If Bondevik II really had an engagement in this field, set them off immediately a work and came out with a message now in ours. Unfortunately, this does not happen. There's an outrage about getting more done in this field that shares the municipal committee in today's position. Perhaps many might expect that the Christian People's Party had a different hold, since in the summer they used strong commitment, big words, press conferences and a lot of phrases to find out that now the Christian People's Party would come up with a new gift in housing policy. Unfortunately, the Christian People's Party is now leaning back on the big message that is coming, and that does not mean debate until spring 2004. Now the government and the majority make quite a few changes in the positive direction, it should have, and it has also been supported in the budget. We also had debates in connection with the budget position of the Municipal Committee. Unfortunately, it is also such that the same majority make a serious step in the wrong direction; they are involved in weakening the role of the House Bank. One of the meetings that made the most impression on me last year was a meeting that the Council of Ministers and the construction industry in Rogaland called in, in which they underlined in various articles the importance of the role of the House Bank as a supplier of general housing of nocturnal standards, and where the right-wing representative in a panel received a message from the Right-wing People in the Hall, both at the local populace level and from the business community, to go back to his council and to the Storing Group and tell them that they are now seriously underestimating the great importance that the House Bank must still have. The working party has with Document No. 8:141 taking important initiatives. Most of them follow up on proposals from the Wibe selection. Previously, the Center Party has e.g. make proposals in relation to the waste directive, i.e. for municipalities to be able to use state ownership at a reasonable price. We have put forward proposals for a review of the bumps. SV has had its proposals for several years. Now, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have gathered gradually both in relation to proposals to strengthen the Husbank's role, the proposal to increase the bumper edge, the proposal for a better bumper support, and also at several other points in this setting, and let me comment on several of the proposals in the section as far as time goes. First, it is absolutely necessary to stimulate local authorities to increase their efforts. This means that the powers of the Minister of Labour and Administration to free up land at a reasonable price should and must be used. We also propose a loan arrangement where municipalities can get interest and tax deferrals on loans for land purchases, and we are set to follow up with a discount per. completed housing in all municipalities. We have a slightly different approach angle here – the Labour Party on one side, SV and the Center Party on the other – and we're asking the Government to evaluate this closer. The Committee points out the importance for many in a transitional phase of the availability of solipeds and that both builders and municipalities are stimulating the construction of several solipeds. In the case of youth housing, II–VI is aimed at strengthening this area. Then I have to underline the role of the butler. Think about what you can do about an increased bumper so that more people can get the possibility of a sober and good dwelling for a period of time, and if the bumper gets the clause so that in case of changing ownership, this is established! We want the government to consider dividing the boo-boo so that refugees and people with difficulty come on one side and the more general boo-boo on the other. I'm taking up the suggestions where the Centre Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e132	The representative has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e137	As the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa said, the Workers' Party and the Centre agreed on a very large number of the proposals promoted in the private proposal of the Workers' Party. In one area, however, the Central Party does not support the Workers' Party's proposal, and this concerns the increase in the income limit by NOK 50000. We believe that the income limit we have today for housing support – and this applies to families with children – is unacceptably low. A single child shall not earn more than NOK 143 000 to comply with the rules, and a married couple with one child shall not earn more than NOK 157 000. Clearly, with such low incomes, almost any rent will be too high for you to cope with it. Does the Central Party agree that this limit has to be substantially raised?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e142	The answer to that is yes. The central party has similar views with the Labour Party in its position and in the context of the 2003 budget. If it were up to us, if we had got multiples for our proposal, the income limit would already have been raised by NOK 30,000. When we do not agree with the proposal to raise the income limit by NOK 50000 and the cost of building by NOK 5000, and we do not want to vote for it today, it is because we believe that the support must be paid closer. We want to get it done already in ours, so that we can get further changes from 2004, and we'll see something closer to exactly where the income limit should be put.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e149	Some of the most striking features of the profile of the rapporteur and the centre party in this case are the alliance with SV in a number of comments and proposals, and thus a policy where more government governance, new regulatory requirements that will give less municipal autonomy in housing policy, and indications of new tax incentives are the most prominent features. Now we can understand some differences in the emphasis on this by tightening up the housing tax of the three new cooperation parties in Norwegian policy. My question to the Zenterpartiet is: What does the Zenterpartiet actually mean by its proposal that the Stortinget should now impose new detailed regulations on Kommune-Norway in the form of another regulation that binds the municipalities not to take higher than cost-effective rentals in the case of rental activities – what now would that mean? The main problem for municipalities is that these rental incomes do not currently cover the costs of a mass of dwellings which, for various reasons, are subject to very high wear and tear, and these dwellings are subsidized in many places by other tenants in municipal housing. Does not the Central Party believe that the municipalities themselves are best placed to assess what will be best for each municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e156	The President must remember that there has been a succession of lines adopted in one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e159	In this context, I take the expression ‘remarkable’ with a shattering calm. I'm very pleased that there is such a broad alliance as it is in Stortingen for an enhanced commitment to those who need state and municipal involvement to get a housing. I would like to return the expression ‘remarkable’. It's very striking that the government, once it's got a sign of a public selection, elegantly disclaims responsibility for a large part of what's in the housing policy field. Then I would like to say to the proposal on which the Central Party is involved: the Central Party will in fact want the State to take greater responsibility for the municipalities' revenues, cf. our proposal for $6 billion more in 2003. We didn't think there was any good idea – the right now seems to want to – that there are the inhabitants themselves who are increasingly paying too much for many of the municipal services.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e166	The case rapporteur thought it was too late by the government parties and the Progress Party to wait for the notified housing announcement. But I don't think you should overdramatize here. Let me add that today there are 34 000 empty farms around the country, and yet there are 100 000 empty houses around, and because of the nobility and concession law system, it is largely out of the question to have these buildings purchased. Isn't it better for someone to take over these small farms, clean them up and use them and maybe settle there to lighten the pressure in more central areas, instead of these 34 000 farms and 100,000 houses being empty and just falling due because the Center Party will protect the noble and concession system and in practice makes it impossible to take over and buy these dwellings?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e173	It is possible that the situation we have today will not be seen as dramatic for Torbjørn Andersen and the Progress Party. But for those who don't have houses, it's clear that waiting for a big message is dramatic. Let me remind you that it is at two points that I am now calling on the Progress Party to think about in relation to today's setting. At the end of the year, we would have come further both when it comes to the homeless and when it comes to an improvement in the bumps. When it comes to the law of nobility and concession, buying one of these yardyards will in fact mean getting a different situation for groups other than those that are mainly covered by the Workers' Party's proposal here. But let's make it very clear that for the Center Party, it's love number. 1 light in all these houses, and that people move to and become bowing in our districts. Let me also remember the role of the House Bank in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e181	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e184	Document No 8:141 from Jens Stoltenberg, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen and the undersigned contain 17 concrete proposals on housing measures for young people and disadvantaged people who would have significantly improved the situation for these groups. The Labour Party is pleased that our proposals are largely supported by the Centre Party and SV. But the government parties and the Progress Party once again show that they are defensive in housing policy and are opposed to most of what we propose. For the Workers' Party, it is important that we get speed on the building, so that we can stabilise the price level of the purchase and give people a real offer to rent housing at a reasonable price. The Labour Party believes that the main objective of Norwegian housing policy is that everyone should be able to dispose of a good and reasonable housing in a good housing environment. We see that this goal has not been achieved and that the instruments need to be strengthened. Norway has seen good international housing coverage and a good distribution of housing. Most can obtain a satisfactory dwelling in such a way that it is proportionate to the income. But at the same time, in this country too, there are injustices and great inequalities that have to be addressed. That is why we have promoted these proposals, which will provide a better social housing policy and which will take care of those who need it. The Government Parties and the Advance Party believe that the document should be annexed to the Protocol – in other words, that nothing should be done at this time. This is not urgent. Now, the most important thing is to get the tax havens in place. Of course, all measures will cost money. The measures have an economic framework of approximately DKK 1.6 billion in addition to current appropriations for the housing sector. After the treatment of the State budget, the sum has decreased slightly, but remains a substantial increase. The Government Parties and the Advance Party will wait for the Government to report on housing policy. It can be dealt with at the earliest in 2004 and any measures adopted in this context will not be able to enter into force until 2005. The Labour Party believes that this is unacceptable. High electricity prices in recent years also show the need for changes in, among other things. the housing stock. Several of our proposals include improvements to housing support. Therefore, the Labour Party hopes that some of these proposals have become more relevant during Christmas and can get a majority here today. Or is it that the Progress Party again fails the weakest when it comes to it? The working party is concerned that young people and disadvantaged people should be able to obtain or rent an acceptable dwelling at an acceptable price. Over time, the household bank has been a decisive tool in achieving this. The House Bank has contributed to financing about half of all the dwellings in this country. It has also led to a high level of housing supply in times of decline and good quality of the dwellings that are built. It has been a successful housing policy. In this setting, we can read that all of the games agree. With the proposals of the Workers' Party, 25 000 new dwellings could be built each year. We want more rental homes, and we want to take a power cap for the homeless. Now the statistics show that in the last year there were significantly fewer dwellings built here in the country than when the Workers' Party was in government. It's worrying. Fewer dwellings in, among others: press areas mean higher housing prices. Municipalities have an important role to play in facilitating adequate housing. In many municipalities, this arrangement fails. There might be a lot of reasons for that. The municipal economy is a reason. It is not a legally required task – it is therefore deprioritised. Some municipalities do not want growth because it costs money. They don't have the money. The Labour Party proposes several measures to eliminate some of these bottlenecks, so that we can increase housing in these municipalities as well. These are often press communities where housing prices are particularly high and where the need for more housing is greatest. The working party will: establish a loan scheme through the Husbank, where municipalities can receive interest and repayment deferrals on loans for land purchase, introducing a grant of DKK 40000 per year. housing for municipalities building dwellings in addition to a certain minimum level of state properties shall be available for sale below market prices for residential purposes; These are important measures, which would have enabled municipalities to become more active in housing policy, but which will now be voted down. The Labour Party strongly disagrees with the policy now pursued by the Government in relation to the House Bank. Last year the House Bank ran out of money just over the summer vacation. We believe that the loan framework is still too low and that there is a need to increase the framework to NOK 16 billion. But we see that this is a deliberate policy of the Minister of State. The prime minister's dream is that the House Bank from being a general bank for people most will become a bank for the first time and the most disadvantaged. Here again it shows that we have a right-hand rule that only controls in one direction. This is a deliberate policy for private banks to take over an increasing share of loans for the construction and trading of dwellings. The losers are the ones to establish themselves in the housing market. They often have to deal with two lending institutions, resulting in more red tape, double fees and more expensive loans. It's just so strange that the Christian People's Party finds itself in it, because this goes especially far beyond the districts. The Labour Party believes that there is a need to build 3000 non-commercial rental homes annually for young people and disadvantaged people. Dwellings shall have a sufficient standard and size, and the rental shall be based on non-profit. In addition, we believe that there is a need for 1000 low-income homes for young people and 1000 new student homes per year. There are two areas in which the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party now feel that there is a particular need to improve and strengthen the measures: 1st@item: inlistbox It is a matter of resolving the situation of the more than 6000 homeless.2. It is a matter of reviewing housing support, so that more people come under the scheme, as well as improving the scheme for those who need it. It has been a cold and long winter, and it is not over yet. We watch TV that people still stay out because they think it is better than staying at the hostel. There are so strong signals and so clear a speech from them that the Workers' Party believes that there is good reason to wind up the entire hosting system. These are expensive and poor solutions, and the money should be used for good housing solutions supplemented by housing social follow-up. The Party of Workers, SV and the Centre propose that the use of the HCP should be discontinued and that, in the context of the revised National Budget for Spring, the Government should draw up a multi-annual escalation plan for the homeless. This is urgent. Finally a little about the housing support. The housing aid is a targeted instrument that allows more people to stay in their homes or to obtain a better housing. It is a non-proprietary personalised tool to help those who have problems with high housing costs in relation to income. The Labour Party believes that there is a need for a full review of the whole aid scheme and is of the opinion that it is urgent. We ask the Government to return to the budget for the next year with proposals for amendments to apply from 1 January 2004. Today, the limit of housing support for families with children is very low. The income of a family with two adults and one child shall not exceed NOK 157 300. That is what the Workers' Party believes is far too low, and too many fall outside. That's why we want to raise this ceiling by $50,000. Our alternative budget already has an increase of NOK 30 000 for the current year. We will also split the housing support scheme into two, one for pensioners and one for families with children and others, and believe that monthly payments are better than payments three times a year. The attitude we are now discussing shows once again that there is a clear distinction between the housing policy of the Government and the Labour Party, SV and the housing policy of the Centre Party, and that it is the weakest groups in society that will again be affected. I would like to address the proposals that the Labour Party has made either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e252	Signe Eye has taken up the suggestions to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e257	It is interesting to record the very strong belief of the Workers' Party that only the state will be able to rule even more, and that will be the order of the most – including in housing policy. I would like to point out in particular that further detailed management of the municipalities is now being provided for by new legal regulations. It is the sum of all such legal regulations, impositions and ringings that are constantly weakening municipal autonomy. And once again, we see an example of all previous promises that things should now be made simpler and municipal autonomy increased, just means a policy that goes the wrong way. All the time, we get proposals from the Workers' Party on more government governance, more money through state banks, more designation and more detailed regulation. My question to the Workers' Party is: What does the Workers' Party really think about the intense zeal of its new partners after imposing new tax burdens on the country's owners, and before it has had any opportunity to assess the whole and the context neither in housing policy nor in tax policy here in the country for the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e264	The Workers' Party believes that the Husbank has been in favour of Norwegian housing policy over all times, has been very successful. No one in the committee disagrees either. That is why we believe that the Husbank should continue to be the important tool, so that we can get a reasonable and good standard of living and enough housing in the years to come, and we are already seeing, after just one year with the Co-operation Government, that the market is to control this, not keeping goals. We have had a significantly smaller expansion in 2002 than in the previous year. There is also no detailed management of the municipalities. The measures we have promoted help municipalities to be able to do the job that they should do. As far as the tax system is concerned, we'll get back to it when the Skauge committee comes up with its attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e273	The representative Signe Eye from the Workers' Party praised the excellent housing policy of the Workers' Party and criticized the policies of the Progress Party. Many of the measures proposed here by the Workers' Party are old labour party policies. So since 1945, the Labour Party has had government power for 41 out of 57 years! You can almost characterize the attitude of the Workers' Party's Housing Committee as a slaughter of that party in housing policy earlier years, while they had the power. Why has the Labour Party not done more to implement what they now propose, in all their own years of government, instead of criticising other parties to wait a few months for a housing announcement to be submitted?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e282	I could be tempted to ask the Progress Party what housing policy they have, but I will not do that! I want to maintain what I also said in my main post and in the previous line, that essentially housing policy has been successful. No batches removed from the configuration. That's why it has to be right. But we see in the Workers' Party, and I also said that in my main post, there is now a need to move on and get into an even better social housing policy than we have now. There is a clear recognition of the proposal we are also promoting, that there is now a need to move on to help new groups and those who have still not had the opportunity to enter the housing market. That's what we're now dealing with, and that's what we intend to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e289	Signe Eye will calm down a little in relation to taking what's in the setting, to income because everyone has cheered up the Labour Party's policy over time, because that's not the way it is! What has happened now is that the Workers' Party in this setting has followed what has been SV's housing policy for many years, and now we agree with many of the proposals to ensure a large expansion, among other things. of rental dwellings. We agree now, and although we haven't yet seen that all the money needed to get to that expansion is to find in the budgets of the Workers' Party, we're hoping that this consensus means that we can manage to do it in the future. But I had a question for the Workers' Party: The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have agreed that we should build housing that should be non-profit, so the municipalities should not make any money on these. But how can we avoid that the municipalities, having received money from the state, set up market rentals, if we do not at the same time oblige them to make sure that they do not just take market rentals, but cost-effective rentals?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e298	I am pleased that the Working Party and SV agree very much in this setting. We agree that there is a need for a large rental market here, too, and have gone into action to enable us to build rental homes with so-called non-profit solutions. But that means that we also have to put in guidelines and rules that allow municipalities not to take higher rent than what is reasonable. Of course, we will do that in relation to the dwellings that are gradually built according to this principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e303	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e306	This government is pursuing an offensive housing policy, an offensive policy aimed at those who need help. For the Right, it has always been important to give everyone the opportunity to get a dwelling. The public shall also provide good follow-up to ensure that everyone masters a housing situation. These are the main points of a housing policy. The pillars of Norwegian housing policy have been private ownership since the war. The government's parties are firmly attached to this. By owning one's own home, one has far more freedom to have security over one's own housing situation. This government will continue to stimulate private ownership in the housing market. At the same time, it is important to facilitate the growth of the rental market, not least in view of economic difficulties and young people at the start-up stage. The main policies for the housing market are not the Husbanken, housing aid and other schemes that take the selected ones. They are, of course, an important part of housing policy and the only way to actively help those who have the most difficulty and who would otherwise have fallen outside. The main elements of housing policy are a tight policy and a tight fiscal policy to achieve the lowest possible level of interest rates; it is to contribute to reducing the cost of housing, and there are simplifications in laws and regulations to stimulate and not prevent new construction. This government is doing just that. The government parties, together with the Progress Party, have been given a government budget for 2003 which was tight enough and which contributed to a reduction in interest rates. We are in the process of modernising and simplifying the public sector. Taxes and charges have been reduced by DKK 19 billion in two years, and we have started with the very important work of a full review of the Planning and Building Act. The first conversion of the Planning and Building Act adopted today in Odelstinget sets time limits for the public, including municipalities, counties, county councillors, at how much time they can spend on different construction and construction projects. These deadlines will mean a reduction in the time spent on the case and thus also an improvement in the balance between supply and demand in the housing market, and will therefore contribute to a reduction in the cost of housing construction. Later, the complete and maximum necessary review of the Law on Planning and Building will come. Housing aid is the most important targeted measure in this room. 106 000 households receive housing support. This applies to low-income families of disabled persons and pensioners with minimum pension income plus 30 pst. The housing support is a scheme that the Government has invested in – really invested in. In the last two years, the right and the other government parties have helped to increase housing support and the number of people eligible for housing support. The lighting and heat support has been increased. In addition, a one-off grant of NOK 700 is now granted to all housing beneficiaries, if the Stortinget so wishes – to compensate for increased electricity prices. That means that this government is acting. It stands in stark contrast to the Workers' Party. The Labour Party sat in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs until October 2001. Not one of the proposals they are now making was then promoted. Unfortunately, the party has no credibility. The Mouse Still policy of the Workers' Party in position is quite different from the party's call and stand-hei policy in opposition. The party should rather praise the government for the measures it is taking. As a result of the budget agreement between the Progress Party and the government parties, the bank's lending framework has been increased by DKK 1.5 billion to DKK 14.5 billion. This includes the investment in southern countries. This is a loan framework that is well adapted to the situation in the housing market and the economy in general. I would like to say from the right that we are well pleased with the facility of the Bank's loan, where young people in the start-up phase and disadvantaged people are given top priority. This is a priority, but it's a targeted priority for those who need it the most. The extension of the loan period for mortgages for rentals could contribute to lower annual costs and thus lower rentals for tenants. In a situation where housing costs are high, it is important that the Husbank should present a long-term social profile. It is also important for me to mention the importance of ‘Project homeless’ under the direction of the House Bank. This project is part of a national strategy to combat homelessness. Government parties strongly support the introduction of the start-up loan. As from 1 January of this year, the loan replaces the call and start-up loans scheme and will be a better and more user-friendly scheme for young people and disadvantaged people on the housing market. The start-up loan has a very important flexibility in the situation of each borrower and in relation to local conditions. Cooperation between private banks and the public is also positive in order to ensure the best possible offer to customers. This Document No In my opinion, the 8 proposal is very much on the way but to take instruments out of a natural context. I am therefore very pleased that the Progress Party shares the concerns of the government parties and is waiting to decide on individual proposals before the announced housing announcement comes to the autumn of this year and thus we get everything in a context. This is a message that Stortinget himself has asked for. I therefore find it alarming that some parties want a housing announcement to Stortinget and then to deal with large parts of the housing policy with the background in a Document No. Eight proposals. Housing policy is too important to adopt urgent solutions and to make poorly thought-out decisions. That is why the majority in this Chamber, albeit not the majority of the Committee, wants to wait for the notification of housing. The notification of housing must, according to the government parties’ assessment, cover the entire housing policy broadly over the next few years. It is important that the notification focuses specifically on the homeless and other disadvantaged on the housing market. Young people in the start-up phase and special tools for press areas also need to be included in the notification. The most important thing is that the instruments used are flexible and meet those who need help. Whatever the field and area of policy, there are limited resources. It is therefore very important to give priority to this. The right and the other government parties do. We give priority to those who need help, not everyone else. I would like to address the proposal to which the Right is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e346	Peter Gitmark has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e351	The representative of Gitmark must have followed poorly what the government of Stoltenberg did in the housing policy. It surprises me. The lending framework in the Husbank was significantly increased, proposed from NOK 11 billion up to NOK 15 billion. Several start-up loans were granted, the housing grant increased, housing aid targeted. The first thing the new government did was to limit the mortgages, so that they actually went empty last summer, and the housing building was limited in relation to what else it could have been. I agree with Mr Gitmark on one point: it is important that we have a tight budget to limit interest rates. That is why the Labour Party has also proposed a tighter budget than the Government, both in the review of the revised budget and in the autumn. But once again, when the representative Gitmark finds out that the Right answer is tax-free, I have to ask the question: What effect do the tax changes have on the young people who are unable to reach a dwelling that they are able to pay? Isn't it true that right-wing inaction here makes them even more difficult to cope with their housing costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e360	I just want to mention for the record that most young people buy used apartment, not newly built. What do tax reliefs do? It is quite clear that, among other things, helps to make the wage-setting taking place lower than would otherwise have been. If you're left with the x number of dollars, and that's what's important, that means that the pay can be lower, and that the price of the dwelling will therefore be lower than it would otherwise be. Tax reductions are important in this context. But the most important thing, as we talked about, is to get the lowest interest rate possible and to contribute to making laws and regulations so that we get a flexible housing policy where we do not prevent new construction but encourage new construction. It's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e367	I'm a little horrified that the Right doesn't think it's urgent. Thus, the housing report on young people and disadvantaged people was presented at the beginning of 1998 and not addressed before 1999. When a new sample was set up, which has now been working for years, the government will again be working on new proposals to come to the Stortinget, and then you might have to do something – in several years. There are many people who don't have a place to live. There are many young people who are now becoming debt slaves. I'm a little surprised that the Government and the Right don't worry about it any more. And not enough with that, but the representative Hogsnes from the Right was even up until today and thought it was quite okay to be a hushai, not only on the usual rental market, but also on the municipal rental market, which is the bit of the rental market to take care of those who can't afford to get a rental dwelling else. Is it possible to find a justification for this within what the Right-Representative has now concluded, namely that the Right-Priorities of those in need of help, when there is not even to be a restriction on the behaviour of municipalities as any house shark?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e374	This government does a lot, it does it in time, and it does it in the budgets. We add money to the proposals we have, and we follow them up. The housing message will do the same. But what I understood the representative Hogsnes said was that there was a general concern about the proposals, about what they would do for local self-government. We're worried about local autonomy. It is the sum of the state orders that restrict local autonomy. We do not want that, and we want a debate on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e381	It is alarming that those who are busy in this setting have to do something faster than what the Government has planned should be required to be aware of urgent solutions that must be corrected later. The representative Gitmark stands here and says the government is really betting on the bust. If the Government really does, the Government will have to accept with open arms the proposal put forward here, and take a review of the bumps so early in 2003 that in 2004 it will be possible to follow up in a better and more comprehensive way than the Government has so far done, by drawing up individual items. My question would then be, when it comes to the homeless, does the representative think it's going to be less or more homeless if one doesn't get the speed up now?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e388	I will give the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa one example that it might be beneficial to wait. Until 1997, housing aid consisted of two different schemes. In 1997, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party voted for a single arrangement. They now propose that there should be two schemes again. Perhaps the Centre Party and the Workers' Party could have waited on this proposal until a full assessment of it had been seen, which comes in the housing notice. There's one example that waiting can pay off.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e395	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e398	First of all, let me say that the ordinary Norwegian housing market is generally functioning reasonably satisfactorily, and that Norway currently has a much higher level of owner-occupied dwellings than that in most other countries. There's a reason to be satisfied with that. In Norway it is approx. 20 pst. living in rented dwellings, and it should not be an end in itself to increase the proportion of the population living in rented dwellings. Rather, we need to facilitate further strengthening the proportion that owns its own dwelling. However, that being said, there is a need for an exceptional commitment to housing policy, especially to disadvantaged people, in today's housing market. There is a need to strengthen the financial instruments by taking greater social responsibility for the existence of a sufficient number of dwellings in relation to the specific needs of disadvantaged people, as I said. The Progress Party is committed to pursuing a housing policy that enables as many as possible to own their own housing and provides economically and socially disadvantaged opportunities to live in a housing of sober and good standards. Of course, young people also need financial instruments to enable them to enter the housing market, even though young people should be referred as far as possible to the ordinary housing and financial market, in the view of the Progress Party. The Progress Party has not seen it as desirable now to take a position on the part of the large-scale proposals of the Workers' Party in Document No. 8:141. This does not mean that we reject several of the intentions of the proposal, but the Progress Party will have on the table a more comprehensive production of, among other things. these matters. The Progress Party is working with the government parties and will await the housing announcement to be submitted by the Government to the autumn, as we believe this will provide a better and more thorough analysis and review of Norwegian housing policy than just a private proposal promoted over the table. The Progress Party will therefore, as I said, await the Government's announced announcement of housing policy before we conclude in our view, and we ask that the Workers' Party's proposals be annexed to the Minutes. The Progress Party does not agree with the views of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's party in the setting, that it will take so much longer to initiate housing measures for the disadvantaged if we wait a while for this down-to-earth message. Of the proposals and measures put forward in Document No. 8:141, at least four have already been implemented in the 2003 State Budget – with the support of the Advance Party. The house bank has been given increased frameworks, start-up loans are introduced, house bank loans are removed in order to qualify for housing support, and a change is made in the pay-down period for rental loans. With regard to the main objective of Norwegian housing policy, that everyone should be able to dispose of a good and reasonable dwelling in a good housing environment, there is of course cross-political agreement on this at Stortinget, although the view of the use of the instrument may be somewhat different. What characterises us historically is the strong self-esteem and the social dimension that has been embedded in housing policy, among others. with interest subsidies and as the House Bank used to be. Today, social housing is greatly reduced in the ordinary housing market, but the social dimension of helping the elderly and disadvantaged in the housing market will follow up the progress of our work on Norwegian housing policy. However, in this context, the party of progress is also strongly concerned that the housing should not become a tax dairy cow for the public. In 2001, according to the Landsförbund of the Houseowners, Norwegian housing owners paid NOK 37 billion in various housing-related taxes, taxes and fees. Municipal fees, preferential taxes, property taxes, inheritance taxes, document fees, property taxes and, in particular, VAT on housing provide huge revenues for public funds. I think it's a little strange that the parties that seem almost unviable after building more homes here in the country, are also the parties that will order to punish the housing owners with increased housing taxes. With regard to the rate of housing construction, it has been at a relatively high level in the last few years, although the forecasts suggest a slightly lower construction activity in the future. The pace of housing construction also has a positive impact on the disadvantaged by the overall increase in the supply of housing and a reduction in the pressure on the housing market. In the past, it has been estimated that there is a need to build around 27,000 new dwellings per year. in Norway, while a recent investigation actually shows that the need may be a good deal less, perhaps around 17 000. Compared to these figures, the level of Norwegian housing construction and the rate of Norwegian housing construction are sufficient as it is today. The housing structure, as is known in the course of the economic cycle, fluctuates with the level of interest rates and funding possibilities – all these are crucial and critical factors in terms of the number of dwellings to be built from year to year in this country. As far as housing financing from the House Bank is concerned this year, the House Bank will increase its lending framework by SEK 1.5 billion to DKK 14.5 billion, including DKK 0.5 billion for nursing homes in the south. This is a very good loan framework that is adapted to the needs of the housing market, while at the same time the Husbank currently has a device that prioritises young and disadvantaged people in the housing market. The Progress Party supports the Government in waiting for the housing announcement that the Government has notified, because we believe that this will provide, at least to us, a much better basis for concluding on some of these questions. The proposals for the Workers' Party have not been rejected, but there is a need for more time for a more thorough review of this material by the Progress Party. Finally, the Progress Party will vote in favour of the proposal for Decision V.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e426	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e429	In party speeches, we very often hear that the Progress Party is occupied by weak groups and disadvantaged groups, pensioners and, of course, also homeless – the 6 200 homeless – and we just heard such a speech now. It is said that there is a need, but there is no urgency, we cannot give priority now, there are other things that need to come first, and there is a need for better and more thorough analysis than a private proposal. And that says a representative from the Progress Party, who might be the party in the Chamber here that promotes most private proposals. This is not a matter of concern. The credibility of the Progress Party decreases and decreases. I have a question for the representative Andersen, as he now believes that there are too many dwellings being built in this country: Does Andersen think that there is no connection between housing prices and access to housing?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e437	Of course, the progress party is concerned with the disadvantaged in the housing market. There should be no doubt left in this room about that. But we have said that we will come back to this when the government presents its housing report. The representative Eye must have misunderstood me to those degrees – or she has deliberately tried to misinterpret me. As regards the rate of housing construction in Norway, it has been around 25 000 dwellings in the last years – 20 000–25 000. What I said is that there's a new investigation, which shows that maybe 17 000 homes are enough, but it's expected to be built next year over 20,000 homes – the rate is falling slightly, it's probably 23,000 this year. So it should be enough after the new forecasts and also after old forecasts, which show that the need might have been 27,000 dwellings per person. years. It is very difficult to say what the exact number of dwellings to build in Norway is every year. However, we believe that in the Norwegian housing sector a sufficient number of dwellings are now being built, and we are going to have a policy that will make it happen in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e444	With their contributions and attitudes to this matter, the Progress Party shows that they have decided in the housing policy to be a logistical puddle for the Government. There's two things that do it. One – and most importantly – is that the Progress Party says that it is not important to do anything for the homeless in two more years, nor in relation to housing support. In terms of these two things – people who are homeless, and people, such as those who are not. Lonely, which is not now within the housing support scheme and benefits from the 700 kroner that the Government brings to people who have problems with electricity – says the Progress Party: These are not getting any help from us until 2005. My question to the Progress Party is: Is there any good reason to do so, in addition to the fact that one has only intended to wait, because one has not wanted to do anything for the young and disadvantaged from 1998 to 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e449	In the case of housing aid, the Progress Party believes that there is a system that is quite accurate. But what we're talking about here is building new homes. Then I have to repeat once again: the party of progress is going to conduct a policy here on the Stortinget, which means that there will be a sufficient number of homes for the disadvantaged. In the case of young people, they are not initially considered to be a disadvantaged group. Young people shall be able to make the most of the ordinary financial market in order to finance their possible housing plans. However, let me mention one thing: through a policy for a generally lower level of taxation, more young people would be able to afford to serve their mortgages, and thus they could finance their own housing without a lot of support measures, as it would appear that SV believes is necessary. We believe that a general reduction in taxes will give people better advice and better opportunities to serve their mortgages.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e456	It's hard to understand what Andersen is saying right now. He therefore has the support of the proposal for Decision V. That's good. That means he said that when it comes to student housing, we have to get a plan. I understand that there can't then be a plan to reduce the construction of several student buildings. Then he also says that when it comes to young people, there are enough measures. My question goes in relation to the homeless: Does Torbjørn Andersen mean that the pace there is high enough to secure the ones that are all, the most deferred in our society? I want an answer from the Progress Party on that. And one more thing, in relation to the supports: there's just a way out. But what he is asking for is a distribution that will produce both the ratio to the size of dwellings, to income and to who should be included. There are questions about an improvement through a distribution, but that was now done in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e463	Only in the case of student housing: I think it's very important to bet on that. This will lead, especially in Oslo and other major cities with universities, to less pressures in the ordinary housing market. Of course, in the case of the homeless, which is estimated to be between 5,000 and 6,000 in this country, it's the duty of all parties, I kept saying, to try to do something for them. Here I clearly believe that there is a need for extraordinary political efforts to try to improve the conditions for those who live on the street and have no offer of housing at all. This should be followed up by the Progress Party and address when the housing notification arrives. I'm assuming it's going to be a theme, too. Then we're going to get back to this, and then we're going to prove that we're pursuing a very good policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e470	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e473	It's not random that having a dwelling is a human right. If you don't have a safe place to live, there's a small opportunity to live. For who will hire a person who declares to stay at the hostel, or has the address post the restante? Who has peace of mind to be able to get work if the rental contract for, let's say, a father with a kid goes out next month? But even though it is a human right, this is not enshrined in our laws. The Social Services Act only gives municipalities responsibility for providing ‘temporary housing’, not for providing people with a permanent dwelling. The result we see. It's that the homeless are referred to living at the shelter, without social follow-up, with enormous benefits for cynical speculators. But the worst thing is that we're wasting the resources of society. We give unworthy housing and deprive individuals of the opportunity to take care of their own lives, while injecting public funds into a bottomless hole instead of investing in good housing and social follow-up. The government does not pursue housing policy. The government administers symptomatic treatment of a non-existing housing policy and spends the community’s money without thinking about long-term prospects. For a good housing policy, you have a goal, you have a plan, and you have a tool to achieve your goal. The aim must be a housing policy that gives everyone the opportunity to live safely and fairly in a good housing environment. That means we're not going to have any hospice. That means that people who are homeless will be offered a permanent dwelling. That means we're going to have a policy that makes enough homes built in this country, and our estimate is 25 000 homes. This means that we should have grants and other instruments to create a good living environment, with good environmental solutions, for example. district heating and the type of thing. In addition, we need a larger non-commercial rental market. In Norway, therefore, the non-commercial rental market is barely 4 pst. of the total housing market, and this rental market is only 1/5 of the private market. While in other Nordic countries there is a balance, i.e. about as much non-commercial as commercial rental homes, in Norway we are far behind in that area. This means that we do not have the same opportunity as in the other Nordic countries to keep low rental prices, which means that people can get a reasonable rental home in a market where it is such that the person who needs a dwelling is in a much weaker market position, just because it is such that someone does not have a place to live, one has to get it, and then there is a price given to those who rent out. The plan must be to provide enough housing. First of all, we have to build 25 000 homes this year, and we have to have a goal of being able to build so many. If we see that it's built too few, we have to put in other tools and make sure to get the housing up. We cannot just leave this to the market, as Torbjørn Andersen of the Progress Party said, and let it swing in line with the economic cycle. For people need housing even in downtime, perhaps especially then. We need to build more rental homes and low-income homes. We've set a target of 5,000 per. the total number of years. And we need to build more student homes. In addition, the third part here is that we want to eliminate the homelessness. So there's something we just have to do, because if you don't have a place to live, there's no chance of getting on the right foot for the rest of your life and working as a human being, with the security you need to do it. Fourth, we need to make a plan to ensure that municipalities have the opportunity to follow up their housing social action plans. It was said from the Right here instead that in SV, the Workers' Party and the Senter Party we operated with a detailed regulation of the municipalities. But what we have said is that municipalities must have the opportunity to follow up their housing social action plans, and per. So today there is too little money in the state budget for housing grants and mortgage loans to be able to follow up the plans made by the municipalities. So we're talking about giving more freedom of action to the municipalities, more local democracy. The government is pursuing a policy of less democracy and less local opportunities to solve problems. The main problem is that the Government is not willing to set such policy objectives. It is possible to disagree on sizes and numbers, depending on the kind of policy you want to pursue, but the main dividing line goes between those who want to pursue a housing policy and those who do not want to pursue a housing policy, where you set concrete targets for what you want to achieve. Right, well supported by the Progress Party, has left to the markets the human right to obtain a dwelling. It is not possible to leave to the market to follow up a human right. That's why we need a plan. For the housing sector is large, it is a large and important part of the Norwegian economy. If housing prices increase considerably, as they have done in the last ten years, this has a significant impact on the average inflation in the country. This is again something that can lead to interest rates rising. Therefore, one has to have some goals for the housing sector, and one has to have some thoughts about how prices are going to be in the housing market, and how many dwellings are going to be built. In addition, housing construction accounts for such a large proportion of total production in this country that good socio-economic policies and good social planning cannot be pursued without having an opinion on developments in the housing market, as the Government and the Progress Party do. Thirdly, if prices rise, more people fall outside. If prices rise, there are more people who are disadvantaged and who will need the symptom policy of the Government, namely to put in place other instruments to help those who have the most difficulty. But it has to be a goal that the least possible must be to contact the social office and elsewhere to get that follow-up. And we know that most of the housing support today is provided through the social office and not through the state housing system – most of it is provided through the social office. And that's not a good policy. Having a dwelling is a human right. That's the way it is. What kind of instruments do we have? Means can be such things as – as we believe – having the right to a permanent dwelling and not just the right to be referred to a hostel. We must have good quality housing, we must have simplifications – as the Government has proposed, and as we will adopt later today – with time limits for public proceedings. But here I notice that imposing deadlines on public proceedings, it does not call Hans Kristian Hogsnes the detailed management of the municipalities, although that is what it is. It is clear that there is detailed management of the municipalities! But it's a proper detail management of the municipalities. Because we believe that individuals must have rights to have proper proceedings. And to get enough housing built, it's important that we have speed of handling. The house bank is the most important instrument we have had, because it ensures that there are enough loan frameworks to build homes. And so we see this year, and we saw it last year, that the construction industry says that there are too small loan frameworks via the House Bank to have the housing projects carried out. Andersen from the Progress Party can then say that this is adapted to the housing market. But that depends on what you want. If you want to build more dwellings, we have a house-banking framework that is not adapted to the housing market. That's the point. We want to increase the mortgage lending framework of the House Bank. In addition, the House Bank grants grants both for good-quality housing and urban renewal – although these grants are shaved away by the Progress Party and the Government – and for the construction of rental dwellings. That's where we're doing the big deal: giving enough money to build rentals. So it's not about changing big linen in Norwegian housing policy, it's just about doing more of what we know works. Why the others won't agree to it, but rather will wait two years to find out and decide this, is completely incomprehensible to me. And then there's the housing support, which is so today that there's too few that come under it. But the tax policy, which people sort of point to, what do you think of it? Tax policy is essential for housing policy. It would be built more dwellings, and it would be cheaper to build dwellings, if we had lower VAT, and it would be lower prices if we had a higher tax on owning. That is why our objective is: we have a housing policy plan. It must also be achieved by the Government and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e496	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e499	I am strongly in favour of a regional policy that ensures the settlement in the districts. But at the same time, it's a fact that it's moving to central strokes. It pushes up housing prices, not least in the edge zone around Oslo. At the same time, these municipalities say that they are not particularly interested in facilitating the construction of several dwellings. Therefore, the Workers' Party proposes that we introduce a carrot that promotes an extra effort for housing where the pressure is greatest. A similar grant to all municipalities, to all dwellings, does not give this pressure to extend. Why is SV opposed to such a grant to municipalities with a particularly high degree of new construction, so that we can have an extra effort to get up the housing building where the pressure is greater?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e504	I fully agree with the Labour Party. It is very important that municipalities get a carrot to provide extra housing. The problem with the Workers' Party's proposal, which is why SV and the Center Party have said that we need to take a more thorough look at this and get into the housing announcement, is that in large municipalities with a large population there will also be a need for large housing construction. The Workers' Party's proposal is to receive a grant of NOK 40000 based on a total share of the number of residents in the municipality. So this means to Oslo that you wouldn't get a penny until you built 2,500 homes. This will be very good for small municipalities that are growing violently, but also large municipalities that Oslo needs to grant infrastructure in this respect. That's why we've always meant something about this. We have said that it is important to come back with such a kind of grant, but we don't think the way the Labour Party solves it is good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e509	President, good new year!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e515	In the same way!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e518	It's rarely what SV will do, which surprises me. They will make everything possible, and they have few or no limitations, either of an economic or regulatory nature. But that SV in a matter of how to get more and more housing in Norway, is attacking the tax havens that you have linked to a loan on the house, surprises me. I wonder how many there are that could have been built today, if one had to pay taxes on the one paying in interest. It's probably more important that people can afford to stay than to prevent some rich people from investing in houses. It's going to be people's houses too, and the prices aren't really important because rich people live anymore. The government, with its easy tax on the world, has made sure that widows in big houses and people around the country can build and live without a tax on the world in health. So that's something that worries me, and that's what I'm wondering. I don't understand, and I have to ask for an explanation about this. Because it must be a goal that fewer people go to the social office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e525	Now I don't quite understand where Anita Apelthun Seele has read that we're going to remove the tax deduction on loans. But what we mean is two things. One is that we need a fairer housing tax system. Because today, all the studies show that it's those with the biggest houses that enjoy very, very well that you don't have a housing tax that provides a fair basis for taxation. We tried together with the Workers' Party to get a fair housing tax that meant 60 pst. by the owner of the dwelling would entirely exempt income tax on the dwelling, 22 p.m. would be reduced or equal to housing tax, while those with the largest dwellings would be taxed more. But this was not the Christian People’s Party. Then you cannot come here and say that the tax policy they want to pursue in this area is better than the policy we want to pursue.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e530	I'll follow up some of that with taxes. SV believes that higher taxes on housing provide lower housing prices, so that more people can afford to buy a dwelling. It said Holmås, and he talked a little about it. But is it not the case that increased taxes on housing will lead to fewer and, certainly, much smaller dwellings with less space? It provides less rental opportunities, and this will lead to a smaller offer of dwellings for rent in private homes. I don't fully understand the logic of SV's reasoning here, and I also want to ask, how much more expensive is it going to be? What taxes on housing will be increased in the SV world to make housing cheap enough, to put it that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e535	There is no SV believes that it is that if you increase the taxes on owning a dwelling, the prices will go down. That's how it is. It is that logic that the Advance Party also uses for its fees, that things should then be cheaper. What we mean, and what we think is important, is that the housing prices today are too high. We want to do something to make sure that it is cheaper to buy a dwelling and a little bit more expensive to own a dwelling. In addition, we believe that it would have been better if it was more expensive to own a dwelling, and it could be cheaper to build a dwelling. In Sweden, for example: assesses the imposition of half of VAT on construction. It may well be that it would be a good thing to take care of in Norway too. But if you don't at the same time make it more expensive to own a dwelling, the entire tax base that it would be to reduce VAT will go straight into the pockets of entrepreneurs, landowners and simply to those who are building. It's a bad deal. That taxet should benefit people.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e542	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e545	This place is important. That means roof over the head. It means security and self-determination over your own life. The Nordics largely owned their own home, and that's good. The government and the Christian People's Party are concerned that this is the way it should be. But then there are those who find it less difficult to build and build, and young people entering the housing market for the first time also have difficulties, especially in the press areas. The government is busy with a proper review of housing policy challenges, and has therefore announced a housing announcement this year, in 2003, i.e. soon. The Government Party and the Progress Party will take the debate on housing policy when we have the basis for a report. One must see things in context. That doesn't mean the government won't take the challenges immediately as well. In the budget, the Government has proposed and adopted important improvements in housing policy. It had to be co-operative to bring in an immediate loan, a loan that made the offer more flexible. It is important for the Christian People's Party to abolish rigid and square rules and replace them with flexible arrangements that meet where the need is. I have to say that I perceive a lot of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's proposals in this matter as detailed arrangements that will easily create mismatch and require red tape and millimetre decisions, as workers' party schemes so often have done before. We don't need that. The government has improved the support scheme so that it now also applies to families with children in privately funded houses. No government has made such a change before, although there is no lack of knowledge about needs. The government has extended the amortisation period for rental properties, and not least has an additional loan frame for the House Bank. In any case, the home bank has never had as much money at its disposal as they now have. But it is most important that the government has led to a policy that has led to lower interest rates and expectations of additional interest reductions. The decline in interest rates more than anything makes people with house plans slow down. And when the planning and building laws now have deadlines, house construction can start without one having to wait winter and spring. It's also important to simplify the whole law on planning and building, and it comes, it comes, so that good construction projects don't get spoiled and delayed in an incomprehensible detail board. The government has given top priority to disadvantaged people in the housing market and to young people to establish themselves. Starting loans are a positive arrangement for all parties. Difficult people often lack not only housing, but also living, and close cooperation between relevant public services and voluntary organisations is necessary here. It's now going on, and it's time. The government and the Storting have also allowed $30 million. to strengthen the follow-up service for the homeless in 2003. This will prevent and reduce discards by cleaning up and helping, of course. The Christian People's Party believes that we can help those who have it difficult, even by the fact that the private market is working. Now, of course, there must be empty areas to get hold of, and it must be very convenient to build and rent out a sock apartment. In addition, the municipality has a responsibility to ensure that all inhabitants are acceptable. That's what the coming big message will give solutions to. These include: therefore we make a big message. I would like to refer to minority motion No. 1, which I expect there will be multiples for here in the main hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e573	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e576	First, I have to disappoint or enjoy the representative Apelthun Seele that the start-up loan scheme was developed by the government of Stoltenberg, but it was more attractive to the municipalities than the scheme that is actually being implemented. This summer, the position came from the Christian People's Party Housing Committee. There was a good setting on many points. It didn't go as far as the Working Party, but it had many interesting elements. It was stressed that the mortgage had to be maintained as today. The government has been very sceptical about that, at least the mayor, to say it carefully. It was said that the government had to grant a direct grant per year. newly built housing, as the Workers' Party has also argued, is a more targeted form. They said they had to strengthen the housing support, as the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party suggested in today's setting. One wanted to strengthen housing allowances for the homeless, as the Workers' Party, the Senter Party and SV suggest in today's setting. One wanted to strengthen the housing allowance for young people, as the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV propose in today's setting. The natural question is: why does the Christian People's Party not join with the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre in implementing measures that the Christian People's Party's own housing committee has actually proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e585	I am glad that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen also thought that something that the Christian People's Party has made is good and good. Here comes some of the principal approaches that the Christian People's Party has to housing policy, and that we together, in the government that is a cooperative government, will fight for. There's something of the point, that we're in a government where three parties are going to become involved in a common housing policy. So the Christian People's Party has said something about what we're prioritizing, and some of it's already done in this budget. In fact, housing policy is about budgets. The Labour Party has had proposals and some good ideas about housing policy, but they have not implemented it until it is implemented in the budget. I would like to point out that, even in the year in which a debate took place, that is last year, it was underfunded in the Labour Party's own budgetary options. We want to do a lot of good things, and some of them we're already doing, more will come later. And then we'll find the most favorable arrangements that we in the three parties can make up. I think it's going to be very good for those who are going to have a dwelling.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e593	The Christian People's Party likes to refer to itself as a party of the home and family. The most important setting around the family is the place to live. If you don't have it, you can't take care of yourself. You can't keep a job. Health services are relatively wasted. And if you have children, it's disastrous. And there are actually too many in Norway today. Of the last five years, the Christian People's Party has been in government for about four years. At that time it has not become less homeless. There are still people living on the street. Children's families still live at the hostel. There are still families who live with a constant horror and cannot explain to their children where to live for the next week. How is it possible for the Christian People's Party to have top priority on something that is not done in four years?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e600	It's true that the Christian People's Party wants to work for the family and the world to get good conditions. I want to underline and make the representative from SV aware that there are so many children living far from home today as it did five years ago. So here it's actually done something. This is where you work. I do not want to take from any party in this magnification the desire to reduce the unworthy situation that exists when families of children do not have a dwelling. I actually think most people would have done something about that. So it's the way that the government has given top priority to those who have difficulty on the housing market. Starting loans and general measures are very important. The general scheme is important, because it means that many people manage themselves. But it is, as I said in my post, necessary with closer cooperation between relevant public agencies and with voluntary organisations to obtain homeless homes. This is going on, just last year, but now it's going on, and I think it's going to have an effect right for the groups that we're out to help.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e609	The Christian People's Party had a separate choice of housing policy. What they presented in the summer gave rise to optimism over a stronger effort in several fields. One of the questions that was addressed was the role of the House Bank. The strokes below in their setting are as follows: ‘Although interest subsidies are almost gone, the loan conditions are given to be the main reason for choosing the Husbank as the source of funding. It also appears clear that the Husbank plays a significant role as a ‘district bank’.’» We can see that the Christian People's Party in government does not follow the important role that the House Bank has had. So the Christian People's Party has had one breakthrough, that house bank funding is no longer to be the basis when it comes to bus pay. But beyond that, there is no trace of what the Christian People's Party has come with, as far as the government is leading housing policy. Right knows what they want. I don't understand that the Christian People's Party needed a separate document to show that they are being run over in this field as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e621	I thought the Central Party representative should maintain his optimism. There will soon be a big message, and then the optimism can turn out in full bloom if a read it carefully and is positive and optimistically set in principle. I should not underestimate that it has our divergent views when it comes to the role of the House Bank, both within the Christian People's Party and before the Government. What's in our housing manifesto is there, and what's important to us, is that we have a priority also within the House Bank. Young people in the start-up phase are high. It also makes it difficult, and then the districts are there. I believe that with the increased loan framework we have had in the House Bank, and they increase the loan framework that we're going to get in the House Bank, we're going to be able to take care of all three areas. So the representative from the Central Party claims that there is no trace of the Christian People's Party's policy in the budget that is agreed and in what has been done within housing policy. All the years I've been on the Storting, I've been there fighting to improve and increase the bumps. And truly there is a trace of it in this budget!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e630	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e633	Having a place to live is a fundamental right, and the Left has a long tradition of commitment in this area both in terms of building homes, reducing taxes on housing and our campaigns for home and home security. We also want an offensive policy to ensure housing for young people and others to establish themselves in the housing market. That is why we want the House Bank to be refurbished as a first-time home bank for those who need housing support for the first time or who have special needs. The left has as its starting point that the best proposals in housing policy, especially for instigators and disadvantaged people, are mostly carried out at municipal level. We want reasonable municipal start-up loans to be granted, more residential rentals to be built in the big cities and reasonable through-the-way housing to disadvantaged people. The public has a special responsibility to make municipal and state land available for social housing and student housing. Here, local authorities should develop models, so that we can achieve the objectives more broadly, and not as the Workers' Party has worked up over time, where they have got good ideas about expensive, small projects that only help someone and close many outside, and that help them as they help, in a way that makes you feel that you have won the lottery. There is reason to underline the common objectives underlying this case. The main difference in the matter is whether the parties are in government or whether they are in opposition. I understand the opposition parties' need to stand out, and I sympathise with their intentions, but in this area, good, well-discussed solutions and greater municipal freedom are needed to pursue an effective housing policy. That is why I join the comments of our cooperation parties, the Christian People's Party and the Right, in the matter. The government has an offensive housing policy, including: as a central element of the poverty plan and several measures in the State budget of the year. And we're taking part in the work on the housing announcement that's been announced later this year. It is understandable that the opposition parties will present various urgent cases in the Storting in order to show political power, but it is also clear that any government, regardless of parties, will have to provide a proper and thorough procedure in which things are viewed in the context. There can be bad policies and bad results from urgent action. Therefore, the Left is pleased that there will be a majority to reject the proposal from the Workers' Party now, and that the matter comes with greater weight in the Government's communication. I have also noticed that the Workers' Party's supporting parties, the Centre Party and SV, also believe that some of the proposals need more investigation. The fact that the Workers' Party, shortly after being in government, is promoting such a comprehensive proposal, is also an admission that the party did not do so much as it had the chance to do, as it now appears to be able to do as an opposition party. Had the government still had Stoltenberg, the progress in the matter would have been, after all, the same as the Cooperation Government now has. Housing policy is also largely managed at local and regional level. The left is actively contributing to this, including: through urban cooperation in Oslo. The main needs of this debate are strong and the need for action is greatest. The City Council recently presented a plan for 10,000 reasonable youth rentals. The 2003 budget allocates 233 million. kr for a power cap for the rehabilitation of the municipal housing stock. This is just two out of a series of examples of offensive housing policies in the country's capital. In this area, there are also many exciting housing projects run by the city's citizens, such as AktBo, and municipalities, such as Ungbo. Housing policies are also policies for those who do not want to own housing, for those who only want housing for part of the year, and for those who need help to live. Housing policy is a complex policy of housing loans, housing taxes, rental housing and housing saving. It's rental houses, and it's hostel. But it is also family policy. Maybe now we have to stop building homes to our ideal, which is a family of 3.7, when we know that the family structure has changed. Left believes the government's housing message to a greater extent than today's proposals will lead to a good and thoughtful housing policy that addresses all aspects of the right to a place to live. With all due respect, one of the measures that make it easier to get a dwelling, is perhaps that this hall was able to adopt a budget where we actually got interest down.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e654	There are about 6,000 people in Norway who have nowhere to live. More than 10,000 have a lower standard than what is considered acceptable. More than 200000 will receive assistance from the State or municipality to meet the housing costs. Many more people work hard to cope with the costs of a good dwelling. In short, although the housing policy in Norway has been largely successful, so that most of us live in a good and partly very good dwelling, and most of them own their own home, it is still a piece of time until we reach the goal of all being able to dispose of a good dwelling in a good housing environment. Dwelling is a fundamental need. Together with work, education, healthcare and care, housing is a cornerstone of the welfare community. Therefore, it is serious that many young families have problems finding a home at a price that they are able to pay. And even more serious, it's that some people don't have access to a good dwelling at all. This is why the Labour Party proposes a broad range of measures to improve the situation of young people and those with economic difficulties. The government of Stoltenberg put in place a number of important measures. The bank's loan framework was greatly increased so that the construction of new dwellings took place. Significantly more people were helped by setting-up loans. The housing grant was greatly increased. Reforms were put in place to speed up the process of building. Now we have to move on. We cannot wait for a year to discuss the necessary measures, as the Government proposes. Therefore, the Workers' Party proposes three main steps to ensure a good housing: We need to build more homes.We need to build cheap rental homes for young people.We need to make housing cheaper for those who have poor finances. The most important thing to prevent price-fixing of dwellings is that more needs to be built. The government makes a serious mistake when they want to weaken the House Bank as a tool to build more dwellings. If there are too few dwellings, some city will raise the price to secure housing for itself and theirs. Those affected are those who are unable to follow the price break – young people and economically disadvantaged. That's why it has to be built more, not less. Loans in the House Bank are one of the most important means of sustaining the new building. Therefore, the Workers' Party will offer more opportunities to obtain «cheap» loans in the House Bank. It doesn't cost the Treasury a single penny, but the new builders get the benefit of the state being able to borrow money at a lower rate than they can do separately. However, increased new construction also requires other measures. Municipalities must produce more residential areas. That is why we propose a state grant for municipalities where there is a particular amount of construction. And we suggest that municipalities get cheap loans for the purchase of land. However, municipalities also need to deal with construction matters more quickly. We have to exempt several cases from extensive treatment in the municipality. We need to set strict deadlines for handling cases. And if the deadline is not met, the fees charged by the municipality must be reduced or completely eliminated. The second main thing is that we have to build cheap rental homes for young people. One of the main problems in the housing market is that young people do not find housing at a price they can handle. The Workers' Party will build cheap youth rental homes. In order for housing to be cheap, we want the state to grant a grant of 30 pst. the costs of purchase or construction. In this way, we also eliminate a substantial part of the discrimination between the state's assistance to those who own housing compared to those who rent housing. If the cost of the dwelling is NOK 600 000, the state will pay NOK 180 000 in grants. The remainder is provided as ‘cheap’ loans in the Husbank which are repaid over 50 years. But then we also have to make some demands. The rent shall be based on the cost of operating the dwelling. It shall not be possible to collect any profit. And those who build must commit themselves to operate on this basis for 20 years. We also want the housing laws to be able to offer dwellings with low deposits of about 10 pst. the costs of purchase or construction. The state must give 15 pst. grants to such low-deposit dwellings and the rest shall be granted as loans to the House Bank. At the same time, we will make it easier for young people to establish themselves in housing that they own. Therefore, the Workers' Party wants the start-up loan scheme to be developed in the sense that it can be granted to all those who wish to establish themselves in a owner-occupied dwelling. It was the Stoltenberg government that took the initiative to get a start-up loan scheme. Unfortunately, the Bondevik government has significantly weakened this scheme by requiring municipalities to take most of the risk. Then the municipalities will not grant such loans. That is why we want the state and the municipality to share the risk from the first dollar. Then the municipalities also dare to lend to those who need it the most. The third main thing is that we have to make housing cheaper for those who have a bad economy. Therefore, the Workers' Party will significantly strengthen housing support. A single provider with an income of more than 143 600 kroner is not entitled to housing support. A family with two adults and a child with an income of more than NOK 157 300 is not entitled to housing support. The revenue is then considered to be too high! Children’s families are the group that is currently receiving the least aid through housing support. Therefore, we will specifically strengthen housing support for families with children by increasing this income limit by a total of NOK 50000. It is one of the most targeted measures for disadvantaged people that has been proposed so far. That is why the Labour Party has also proposed a strong strengthening already in the 2003 budget. The government will wait and investigate. Renting homes are also important for those with poor finances. But here the Workers' Party will make two important distinctions in relation to youth rentals. We believe that rentals for young people with limited living time can be down to 25 m2 per year. housing. Rental accommodation shall not apply to persons who are intended to live there for the duration of their stay. The minimum standards of the House Bank must then apply. In practice, the dwelling must be at least 50 m2. Our response to those with a long-term weak economy should not be that they should live in straits. At the same time, we believe that the state should be able to give up to 60 pst. grants to such dwellings. For those with special problems, lack of ability to live is often a problem as well as a lack of ability to pay. This applies not least to those with drug problems. We will therefore develop schemes that allow municipalities and non-governmental organisations to recover part of the costs of the social follow-up of the resident. The working party will end the use of the hospit. This is a bad place to live. And that's a very expensive offer. By developing good housing services through the use of state housing grants and housing support, municipalities will also be able to save significant amounts that should be used to provide social follow-up and a more meaningful social life for residents. The proposals put forward by the Workers' Party in the Stortinget will bring us closer to the goal that everyone should be able to dispose of a good housing in a good living environment. It's a concrete plan, not just talk. It is a follow-up to the work of the Stoltenberg government. It's a realistic plan, where we'll spend SEK 1.6 billion, stairs up over four years. It is fully possible if you think it is important to strengthen housing policy. I am therefore pleased with the broad support given to these proposals by the Socialist Left and the Central Party. The more disappointing it is that the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party once again wave away. And once again, we see where the dividing lines go in politics. Nor are we surprised here that the Right Party and the Progressive Party are saying no to actions that will improve everyday life for young people and economically disadvantaged people. But we do not stop to marvel at the choices made by the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e715	Previous speeches about the excellence of the Stoltenberg government mean that I also want to praise the Stoltenberg government. I would like to commend the letter sent to Stortinget after the majority of the Storting decided to have an escalating plan with state funding for the construction of cheap rental homes, student housing and low-income housing for the first time in the state budget for 2002, spring 2001. Then, in letter of 10 September 2001, the Stoltenberg government wrote the following to the Stortinget: ‘The government indicates that there is a significant investment in rentals and other housing solutions for young and disadvantaged people in the State budget for 2001. The government will follow up this effort in the 2002 state budget. However, housing measures must be seen in the context and municipalities must be able to choose the local solutions to the problems of establishment in their municipality, in line with the role of housing policy and municipal self-government. Therefore, the government will not recommend a separate escrow plan for several rental dwellings and low-deposit dwellings. In the case of student housing, reference is made to the Student Housing Action Plan submitted by the Government.’ I think it was wise of the Stoltenberg government to say that. Firstly, because the most important meeting point for what you want and what changes you need to make to housing policy, you have a budget each time you deal with it. When the Workers' Party's alternative budget was presented last autumn and they had their first opportunity to follow up their own housing programme, they were unable to follow it up with the funds they had committed themselves. It was not, as I have previously heard the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen say, because it was technically not possible. I can guarantee on behalf of a very effective bureaucracy in the House Bank and in other areas that they would have been able to use the money if they had been obtained, to put it this way. The reason why I'm saying this is that I think it's important to be aware that most of what's being said in the debate we have today on some points and on some areas, we can agree on. This is also why the Government has implemented, either in the budget or by other means, several of the measures proposed in the original plan. But first of all, this is about the time when we're going to balance and put money in. Then this has to be seen in conjunction with everything else. That is why it is not quite horrible if anyone in this Chamber does not support the proposals today. It may simply be that this is being thought through, and that it is necessary to assess this against other measures, including those aimed at disadvantaged groups, as part of an overall state budget. This government has done more for some of the most disadvantaged, in the form of an extension of the housing support system than any other government has done in the last five to six years. It has done so by increasing the housing stock by nearly 180 million. kr, as an ordinary increase in this budget. We've done it by price-setting the housing support for the absolute majority. And we've done that by removing the funding requirement for families with children when buying housing. This was an important step towards a better housing support scheme for the most disadvantaged. We haven't done what it was put up to in the state budget for last year, where we all, when we read the state budget, thought the housing support system had increased. But it was not in 2001 because new legislative changes had been introduced. It was to be financed by the participation of all other housing beneficiaries in financing it. That's why it's not that we can just look at the markers, we also have to look at how we finance them. There are many measures in the list that I have, which are good measures, and which are measures we are going to go through and investigate thoroughly. There are measures here that we, as said, have already started, and there are some measures that we are going to implement before than what has been proposed. Because we have a better technical system to implement the payment of housing aid in Norway, we will now introduce monthly payments for the second semester of 2003, i.e. from 1 May this year. It was in the last year's budget. Our government took this out because it cost $12 million. kr. I don't want to spend $12 million. DKK in red tape and in subsidising Norwegian postal works. But we've figured out cheaper ways of making the payments, and we've gotten the price down considerably. If the implementation is proportionate to the price we have received, we will implement it as a good and sensible measure. In addition, we are going to change some other things in relation to the housing allowance in the letter of assignment that expires. We would also suggest removing the square meter limit for municipal owned rental properties in the four largest cities. It's not very costly, and we have a framework that we can manage to do within the area we have. It will be a special measure aimed at the homeless, where we do not always find good enough packages in the combination of social assistance and housing within a size appropriate to the most vulnerable in our society. We are still working actively to have the highest priority on the issue of homelessness. It's not like Heikki Holmås says in this room, that nothing has been done since 1998. There has been some improvement in housing from 1998 to the present day from all the governments that have been sitting. But what we asked for in Stortinget four years ago was an overall review of how we were going to make housing policy work. And what we're going to promote for the autumn is a housing report with a complete review. In particular, a topic that has not been addressed in this debate at all, namely the full cost-side offer page, will also be affected. Because it looks like one of the really big problems we have is the development of productivity in the construction industry – the increased cost. It's not just prices that go up in this community because there's a lack of offers. Prices are also rising because we produce particularly expensively, and we have a less productivity trend in this sector than in other sectors. I therefore do not want to go in and argue against or for some parts of this proposal. I want to say that when there is a broad majority in the Grand Duchy that actually seems to be important to do more in the field of housing, it is positive, because we need to do more in the area of housing. But we need to do it so that we know that we're doing what's right. Let me, for example. use the example also mentioned by the representative Gitmark, namely the housing aid scheme. Around Christmastime, in 1976/1977, we merged the two arrangements we had in the past, one in the Ministry of Social Affairs and one in the Ministry of Local Affairs, related to housing support for pensioners and other disadvantaged people. We made one arrangement. The right voted against. We considered it problematic because the investigation and the background to the decision were too poor when it came to knowing what governance we had afterwards. That there is now a proposal to break up the scheme again, I think it might be interesting. It is not certain that the directions for splitting up the housing aid proposed here in one of the proposals which do not then receive a majority appear to be the right way to do it. But we have to provide a basis for making decisions based on the different parts that are affected here, including: housing, but also, of course, that the working line should have an impact on all parts of our social and housing policies. We don't have to make thresholds in our society so that people can't participate in work or that it doesn't pay to become a little more active. But I would like to remind you that such conversions have taken a long time. It was only in the 2002 budget that the transitional arrangements from the previous merger were zeroed out. So for four years we have had special rules to adapt this transitional system. There's a reason that things sometimes take some time. There is also no reason to wait for two years to get better measures in the area of housing, despite the fact that the housing report comes first in the autumn. It is entirely up to individual representatives or the Government to make proposals for which there is a financial framework in budgetary procedures, in the same way that governments have done it every year. Changes in housing measures have been made every year when a majority of the Stortinget have asked to see housing policy in a context. But it is probably not possible to spend as much money in a short time as the Document No. The 8 here adds up. It would be incompatible in the government's opinion with keeping a tight budget. It also shows the priorities we've done. Let me say something about the homelessness bit. In addition to what has been done in previous years to give priority to the homeless, the Government has increased its strength to ensure that if we are to get good action in the area of homelessness, such as housing. This is about moving people from a hostel – for those living at a hostel today are today defined as homeless – to more permanent housing, more than just a housing offer is needed. There's a need for social assistance next to it. These include: one of the things in the Social Ministry's budget for the current year to strengthen the side of the municipalities linked to providing better housing for the disadvantaged. So it's not like we're not doing anything. We do a lot, especially for those who are the most difficult. And I'm glad that this debate again has shown that that's where we should have the main concentration. And then we can probably disagree on single pieces, on how much we're going to increase our effort every year in this area. But I want to remind you of what Trine Skei Grande said at the end of his speech, that maybe one of the most important things we do to make sure that as much as possible manages itself is to keep a low interest rate and a tight budget, and not least that we maintain stability around housing policy, so that not people when they are going to buy their housing, fear that the framework conditions will be completely changed next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e737	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e740	I would like to point out that the Council of State said that the Workers' Party is unable to allocate funds to the measures it has promoted: within the framework of the budget for housing policy, we have been able, with an equally tight budget, and perhaps even tighter, to allocate substantial funds for the measures we are now proposing. Another point is the House Bank. In 2002, the House Bank was running out of funds and applications were pushed over to next year. The start-up of new dwellings, which for Oslo and Akershus have decreased by 30 p.m., is now shown. My question is: Is the Council satisfied with this development, and the Council of State believes that the allocation of SEK 1.5 billion in increase is enough when the increased allocation is to go to kindergarten development, and SEK 500 million. kr should go to the construction of dwellings in the South?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e747	There are very many uncertainties in the Norwegian housing market at the moment, and not least the Norwegian economy is affecting housing construction. One of the things we see most of all when it comes to the demand for housing construction is the huge geographic differences. It is very clearly linked to the development of unemployment, the security associated with the jobs of people, and thus the people's belief in and willingness to buy and invest. It is true that there has been a fall in housing construction in 2002 compared to 2001, but there is still a high level of housing construction compared to the level in previous years. Provided we do not get significant deterioration in other parts of the Norwegian economy, I believe that we will still be able to maintain a high level of housing construction. But there is one truth to some of the housing projects that have been started and cancelled: they have never been applied for funding. People are simply the nocturnal, and they dare not bet. In fact, there is a much lower temperature – not least in the press areas – in the housing market, which will also be reflected in the building figures in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e755	There's one thing I'm reacting to. It is that the Council of State argues pragmatically when she says that the Government has proposed changes, for that and that one could do. But when we come up with our proposals, which we think are important, all we get from the Government is a principal and formal answer that they won't do this, because they'll wait until the housing announcement comes. This shows that there is a lack of will to grips with a few of the important things that we're dealing with. There are two things that the majority in the committee has raised, but unfortunately not – at present – the majority in the Grand Duchy. One goes on housing support, and the other goes on homeless. There can be no doubt that what is important is to set some goals. What's hidden from the world is what ambitions the government has, except to give priority to the homeless. What does the Government want? Will it get rid of the homeless? That's the kind of question we're trying to get answers to, and get down in a plane, so we can come back and do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e762	If, in order to eliminate homelessness, it is only on a declaration of will in this Chamber, it shall not be on the will of this government or this Council of State that we wish to abolish residencelessness in Norway. But we have to see the context of the tools to get it done. We need to evaluate the work of providing good programmes to address homelessness, which has been going on for three years now. The last important building step began on 1 January, with money from the Ministry of Social Affairs' budget for the additional measures to be taken. We know that there is a large group of the homeless who not only have a housing problem but also have a housing problem and a housing problem, and therefore they need a support device around them. What is the problem for a lot of people who are being referred to the shelter today is that they are not able to hold the dwelling they have received. Many of them have repeatedly been allocated municipal housing, but the offer around them has not been good enough. What's the problem is that we can later discuss housing measures that cost a lot of money one day, and adopt a budget for something else. We need to see this in context if we are to make action plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e771	As spokesman for the case, it was important for me to pick up some suggestions to give the Government the time and freedom of action it will have to pursue a link between the proposals for the budget and the follow-up otherwise. The two proposals that have been picked out, which refer to the homeless, and which relate to a review of the bumps, are precisely the mints that would allow the councils to give priority to two areas that most of us think are very important. I'm surprised that she here is trying to explain it away as if we don't see the relationship between review and budget. Then I'll ask for a comment in relation to the initial loan that the government has now introduced. The majority of the Committee has proposed a different device here. Unfortunately, it is in the last layer in relation to what the government has now proposed. But does the Council of State now get the same signal as we do, that many municipalities unfortunately say no to the Government's proposal for financial reasons?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e778	We are going to review the entire housing support in connection with the housing message coming to the autumn, and we are going to review the housing unemployment problem. In fact, it is also a theme of the poverty report, which has been dealt with by the Storting, and there are, therefore, concrete measures. But we need to follow up and look at how the measures implemented not only by this government, but also by previous governments, have affected the problem of homelessness. We're going to turn around and turn around on the entire housing stock, but we also have to see it in conjunction with e.g. housing grants. In fact, the housing social action programmes in municipalities are an important part of moving people with long-term housing problems from the rental market into owner-occupied housing, where you can get a combination of both housing support and housing allowances, so that you know what you have in the future, and get a stable situation. It will also help some of the homeless. It is therefore important to see the link between the different measures. I see no value in providing a full review of the problem of homelessness regardless of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e785	The Council of State refers to the fact that the Workers' Party has not followed up its proposals in its budget. That's wrong. I have to remind you that the Workers' Party has proposed to increase the lending framework in the House Bank by NOK 3 billion from 2002 to 2003. We have also proposed increasing the appropriations for housing measures by nearly 300 million. kr from 2002 to 2003, despite the fact that we see that these measures cannot be implemented from 1 January, as originally foreseen. It also makes it possible, among other things. proposing to increase the rate of income in housing aid for families with children by NOK 30 000. The situation on the housing market is so difficult that the Labour Party does not consider it appropriate to wait for almost two years from the suspension of the Housing Committee and until the matter is discussed in the Stortinget. That is why we believe it is necessary to take action now. I also noted the arguments of the Council of State for the need to have a tight budget. I fully agree with that. But this government must also take on board that the disagreement with the Labour Party and the Stortinget is not primarily about whether we should have a tight budget, but about what to do within a tight budget. The Labour Party will give priority to housing policy, and the Right will give priority to taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e794	I just note that the Workers' Party in its alternative budget last autumn did some of the usual tricks of postponing the date of implementation of measures which could have been carried out absolutely at an earlier time and the money spent, because their budget was not linked to the reforms and increases which they themselves have promoted in this scheme they have presented in Document No. The 8th proposal. That it can be spoken away, there is no doubt about it. Administratively, it would have been possible to implement the change in housing support proposed by the Workers' Party in the same way as all the other changes in housing support in the budget are being modified, namely from the 1st semester 2003. Let me just say two words about the starting loan in the House Bank. The main indication of whether the municipalities follow up or not will be how much they have asked for in loans. For the time being, we have received applications for SEK 3.2 billion in initial loans from the House Bank. The amount is larger than it has ever been. This means, however, that the municipalities are satisfied with the scheme put in place. I believe that our framework conditions – where the state takes more of the guarantee, but thus less of the top risk – actually give a good deal, if not a better deal than the minority in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e801	The joyous thing about the state council was that she recognized the need to do more, and that's a starting point. The Sem Declaration also states that there is a need for a significant increase in housing. If for a moment we could put down this somewhat uninteresting discussion about who did what five years ago – because there has been a miserable housing policy for many years, and that's why we have it the way we have it now – we might know: What does the Council of State intend to do with this? If we are to increase the housing structure considerably and help those who need it, we must use the mortgage framework of the House Bank. It is not that some private banks or builders run the Blue Cross and do this to get people a cheap or completely free home. When we know that the house-banking framework for this year is almost eaten up by measures other than housing, how can the Council of State feel that it has followed up the Sem Declaration, which states that there is a need for a significant increase in housing construction over the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e812	The most important thing besides looking at forms of financing for dwellings is to look at the cost structure of dwellings. The size has just been submitted to the Annual Report of the House Bank from 2001, such as: refers to the projects that it has had in announcing competitions in order to be able to stay within a sum of costs, which is an important input into achieving a level of costs. When it comes to the level of costs, you can do three things. One is to be held back from creating new legislation that is more costly, at municipal or state level. The second is to go through quality work with the industry itself, which causes productivity growth and not a further fall in productivity, because there are actually many places in the country where the new construction price is now tangential to the market price, and it has begun to become fewer and fewer places where the price in the market is higher than the cost of building. The third is actually to pursue a general policy that keeps interest rates down, because then it actually becomes more advantageous to build, and the cost eventually gets lower.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e819	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e822	So far out in the debate is probably mostly said, but I think it is important for the Progress Party to come up with the view that the race has not been run, because we want to await the housing announcement. A number of the proposals that are being promoted today may be the future. But we want to wait for the housing message because we see the need for a larger review, not just in terms of housing construction or rental properties, the House Bank, housing support, housing subsidies, taxes and housing charges. There are many elements that need to be seen in the context. In fact, the Storting may sooner or later agree on measures that may be less costly, leading to cheaper dwellings, cheaper rentals, etc. I think we'll take the time to wait for that. It is a paradox that is pervasive in this debate and that is, in a way, general to society elsewhere in Norway. It's that we arrange framework conditions for most people who make them have to crawl to the cross and go to social or housing offices to get help to get everyday walking around. We now experience the same thing with the high power prices. What, then, is the reaction of the Government? Well, then they just put more money on the table, so people have to pray on their knees with the public to get everyday walking around. This reflects the entire Norwegian community. Let me give you an example: Children's families with poor advice are mentioned in many contexts here today. In fact, the situation is that the Norwegian state transfers nearly 40 billion kroner a year to the families of children, while, on the other hand, we tax and charge these families of children in a similar way. This, I think, is the point of view that we have to go through and see if we can change. It must then be a goal for everyone that people have the most income-giving framework that allows them to be self-contained. Here is one of the basics that the Progress Party will put in the driver’s seat in terms of both housing policy and the other framework conditions for families. In the case of the housing notification, which has now been confirmed by the Council of State in the autumn, only the Storting itself determines the time perspective we set for its implementation and treatment. It's the Storting itself that decides. If this is how we come to an agreement here in Stortinget, we would like to discuss whether we can actually implement something as early as 2004. Nor do I see that if we had adopted all the proposals that are on the table, we could have known the effect of them would have come so early that the need for the housing notification would have fallen away. But it could be that if we had adopted many of these proposals, we would actually have had to change them in a new round when the housing announcement comes. There is also something that the Progress Party places great emphasis on. We have the Planning and Building Act to deal with later today, and we're going to have a new round on it. It is clear, as Mr Andersen mentioned earlier today, that we must have major changes to it as well. Here there are major bureaucratic obstacles and a cost-intensive regulatory framework which makes it difficult to speed up housing. I also think it is important to clarify whether the housing situation is worse today than for example. Two years ago. Or is there any action we should have taken at a long earlier time, perhaps 10–15 years ago? I think it's worth waiting for the housing report, so we get the right grips once and for all and don't get a round in Stortinget every year. Now it is important that we get the housing message and a quick treatment of it, so that we get actions that are forward-looking. I also record that there is a large article in the newspaper Our Country today, which has the title «Power of housing support». So now the ministry is going to run a big campaign to tell people most – thousands of people – that they have a right to housing support. For people who have missed housing support, there is now going to be a campaign both through TV2 and elsewhere in the media and the press. It's a paradox that in Norwegian society we have to use the media to inform people that they have a right to public support.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e839	In the Norwegian housing market, some people have a crisis, and some people have a problem. For every day that goes, it becomes more difficult for young people and those with poor advice to manage. Now people with very common incomes are at risk of becoming debt slaves or homeless, while at the other end – we who have housing, most of them are sitting in this room – we can rejoice that the value is increasing. But most of us do have a daughter, a son, a nephew, or a grandson -- or we know someone -- who needs a place to live. And we now see that many of them end up in a bottomless debt or in poor lease conditions that don't get them anything but an equally poor opportunity to get into the owner's market in the future. What do we do with this? I think we've spent too much time. The previous survey report was received in 1998, and was dealt with in 1999. It was then said that a housing sample should be set up, even that one also showed clearly what it was like and what we were going to do. So this housing committee has been working for many years. And so, when we see that very many still have big problems, we push this in front of us and say to those who have the most difficulty, that you have to wait, while others, who have very good advice – others, who have very good advice – have got big money right in the lab, without the slightest reference time, from this government and from the majority. I just remind you that it was distributed NOK 1.3 billion in tax bills to those who take their income from dividends. Most of them are stone rich and don't need this money like young people or people with bad advice. It's cold out, and every day when I go to the Stortinget and to my job, I see people who are homeless. I've been doing that for years. Well, I guess for a long time, it's 6,000, maybe more, without a place to live. Many now go out in the winter cold without having a roof over their heads. I don't understand how we can keep living with it, how we can just sleep well at night when it's like that. Every winter, it's reprisals. In recent years, things have gotten worse. Its higher prices become, and the greater the difference it becomes on people, the more that falls outside and ends up e.g.. at the hospital. And once you've been there for a while, you might not be very good at living in a normal apartment. I've met a lot of young people who have arrived, for example. to Oslo. They had one problem: they didn't have the money to get a place to live. But after a year as homeless – on the couch of a friend, a little on the hospital, a little on the street, a little like a roommate – they also had a whole bunch of personal and social problems that they had not had to have had if we had made it possible for them to get a roof over their heads at a sensible price and within a system where there had been some order. If these people don't win the lottery, they'll never manage to get the million to go into the owner's market. So here we have to do something completely different. One can only take a talk with the Church's City Mission or the Salvation Army, and they will reveal that it is a fact that the problem is increasing, and that people's problems are increasing as long as we wait to help them. It's true that money has been put in to help people learn how to live in a dwelling. And that's actually necessary. I don't disagree. But first they have to have a place to live. They can't learn it if they don't have a place to live. And housing is "basic" – it's the frame around everything, it's the frame around the family. If you're going to school, you have to have a proper place to live. If you want a job, you have to have a proper place to live. If you are to take care of your children, you must have a proper place to live. If you have a drug problem, get detoxed and then go straight to the hospital, it's not very smart. Then you're certainly not drug free for a long time. If you get out of prison, maybe you've been able to straighten out, you're also sent straight into the hospital. This is a headless policy, and it's a cold policy. And now we're going to keep going even further with more papers. There should be a limit to what we in a rich country are to endure from misery for those who have it difficult. Many do stupid things and get dizzy bitterly for that long. But thank you above all, everyone is going to have, and it's actually of the few things that politicians can decide. It's something physical, and it can be built. We can regulate the prices here if we want, and that means that we actually distribute to those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e853	Document No 8:141 for 2001–2002 refers to housing measures for young and economically disadvantaged people. There are a number of young and economically disadvantaged people who have difficulties in today's housing market. I therefore feel that it is worthwhile for the proposers to focus on this group. They promote a number of proposals. As we have already heard in the debate, the Government, when presenting the 2003 state budget, has addressed several of the proposals put forward in this document No. The 8th proposal. We need a thorough review of housing policy. The government has also announced a big message in the autumn of 2003. The Wibe Committee delivered its opinion, NOU 2002:2, on 15 February 2002. An overall committee points out that this will provide a good basis for enhanced housing policy involvement. In this setting, we have got an overview of the current situation on the housing market. We have been evaluated in different ways, and we have received a number of proposals for action. Prices on the housing market have risen sharply in recent years, but have been flattening out lately. In the news this morning, at 1:00 a.m. 6 the happy announcement that prices, among other things in Oslo, on the way down. It's very enjoyable considering those who work hard to get a living. In the view of the Christian People's Party, the warned announcement must focus specifically on the homeless and other disadvantaged, on young people in the start-up phase and on the challenges we face in the press areas. One of the pillars of Norwegian housing policy in the post-war period has been that people should be able to own their own housing. This has been a unified and successful housing policy and should also be one of the main strategies in the future. The Nordics most live well, in good dwellings, and most are self-owners. Then it is especially important to focus on those who have economic or other difficulties. This is also done. So we're going to focus on the measures. The 'Projekt bostedslos' was mentioned in the debate as positive. Under the Housing Bank's housing allowance scheme, the homeless must be given top priority. In the government’s announcement of combating poverty in the autumn of 2002, housing issues were given a central place. The strengthening of housing support and the follow-up of persons with particular housing problems are among the key actions of that action plan. I would also like to point out in particular the removal of the requirement of mortgage to receive housing support and help with lighting and heating as particularly important measures, which we were reminded of in connection with Christmas and the electricity prices. Both of these measures have been implemented in the 2003 State budget. The government focuses on young people and disadvantaged people through its action plan against poverty, through actions proposed in the budget and through work on the notified urban development communication on housing policy. How, then, in this debate, you can say that the government has no housing policy is a mystery to me. But all parties that focus on the disadvantaged, on the homeless, should have thanks and honor for it. A number of the measures proposed in Document No. 8:141, will need further investigation. The Christian People's Party is therefore behind, and of course supports, the proposal that Document No. 8:141 is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e868	As many have established before today, housing policy is one of the most important tools we have to achieve general objectives of human freedom, equality and fair distribution. If we look at housing policy at large, Norway is very well placed on an international scale. The housing standard is evenly higher. A majority owns their own dwelling. But the differences are great, both between generations and between cities and countries. In the largest cities, especially in Oslo and surrounding areas, the entrance ticket to the housing market is now so expensive that young people at the start-up stage are at risk of becoming lifelong debt slaves. For lonely youth at the beginning of the 20s, the lack of housing and the crazy prices both in terms of purchase and rental mean that many do not see themselves able to move from home in the period of life in which this is both natural and correct. Perhaps the biggest structural change in the housing market is that the average age of young purchasers of housing has increased by more than five years. Now most of them are in the thirties before they establish themselves in the housing market. As long as it's the seller's and landlord's market, this turns out in grotesque conditions. Two examples from Oslo: A worn-out one-room apartment with a small kitchen hook in the interior of Oslo is offered for sale – a price indication of 800 000 kroner. Right around the corner because where I live, 15 rooms are rented out, in the same farm. The lessor takes NOK 4000 per month. person. The 15, most students and immigrants share one kitchen and four toilets. In the yard next door there is an ordinary wooden apartment for sale of between 3 and 4 million. kr. This is a price level that is beyond the potential for too many. The most important thing about today's proposals is to support municipalities in an offensive housing policy. The Labour Party believes that good policy requires an active municipality and an active state that uses powerful enough means to secure housing and housing, including for young and economically disadvantaged people. The examination of this proposal shows that the bourgeois majority both in Stortinget and in Oslo Municipality have not yet removed the skyscrapers, but believe that the market alone can control housing policy, for the most part for the people. The proposal to introduce new loan schemes, such as mortgage loans for municipalities, is an important proposal for Oslo. The land situation in the city here, where access is limited and prices are very high, means that a strategic land policy is absolutely necessary to ensure urban development. The same applies to the proposal that State land may be sold below market prices for residential travel. This is especially important for Oslo, both because the city has many state properties, and because the plot situation is strained. The need for housing is high, and production is too low in relation to population development. The State that exercises ownership and housing policy must link its interests. This is not least the case in Oslo, where the bourgeois majority has sold out the possibility of viewing municipal properties and plots as a housing policy instrument. As you know, the House Bank will no longer grant as from 1 January of this year for the construction of public rental dwellings. Calculations The Labour Party has carried out, shows that the Municipality of Oslo can save half of what they spend on the hostel today, whether the municipality builds its own apartments for hostel users. And it is again with wonder that I find that it is not majority for that. This money – which Oslo calculates for 40 million. kr – can be used for prevention and rehabilitation. In a larger calculation, money currently spent on drug abuse will also be better spent, because close follow-up and a home are prerequisites for people to live by themselves in the long term. It is therefore very regrettable that proposals for the removal of hospice are voted down by the bourgeois majority in this Chamber, with the votes of the Progress Party – the same majority as in the Oslo City Council prevents children from being at the hospital being a mere saga. It shows the lines of policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e887	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e890	There are several speakers who gave a presentation of what has happened or has not happened for several years, as if there is a kind of vacuum on the front of housing policy pending the Wibe selection and a result should have patience in relation to further follow-up. On the part of the centre party, like several other parties, we have put forward our proposals in budgetary context, but in addition, we have maintained that when the Wibe selection was set up, action would be stepped up. There's a hurry to get more of a good home for your own or for rent. I think it's important for the government to have the time it needs to draw up a message, but at the same time it's important to stress the outmodedness of the Storting. I still don't understand the need to explain the need for a stepping-up plan when it comes to homeless people and the effort there. An annual number of dwellings and a corresponding addition seemed to me to be important. Based on the imbalance that exists in the case of structural aid, i.e. the narrow scheme in Norway compared to that in the other Nordic countries, I do not realize that it is necessary to challenge a rapid review of the support scheme with a view to including more. I got hurt to refer to a wrong number. In Sweden, the number of households is not 12 pst., but 20 pst., against Norway 6 pst. During the debate, I was concerned for a while about whether the Council of State got what the various parties expressed – but it did, even though I saw that she had important sufficient tasks at times, both in relation to her own and in the other party. I am pleased that she is now stressing that in her further work she will still look at several of the proposals that are currently in the configuration and that seem to be being downgraded. That's good, because it might be a good idea to make sure that this is a reinforced effort when the government comes up with its message. I would like to ask the Council of State in particular to take note of the initial loan introduced from 1 January, and the situation in which many municipalities are, and that if it turns out that this loan does not correspond to the objective – either to the purpose of the Government – then comes to the Stortinget with proposals for changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e903	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 1561]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e919	The proposalers from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre point out in this case that Odda and Inner Hardanger have a problem: the population goes down and industrial workplaces are laid down. But we're talking about one of the most beautiful areas in Norway – there's hope, and it's still flourishing in Hardanger. Action in the field of nutrition and district policy that can support business and housing in the districts is important. As a result, Odda Municipality has also had conversion status from 1996 and has been added 17 million. kr extra from the state. It is also important to point out that of the 133 people who have resigned at Odda Smelteverk, there are 18 people who were registered as completely unemployed in the fall. Good business and innovation framework conditions are important. In an ECON report that occurred three years ago, one concluded that 80 pst. of the companies that will give us jobs in 20 years, are not yet created. Only partial flapping on this prognosis is a major challenge. In any case, we need to create a simpler and nutritious Norway to grow in the districts in general, and in Hardanger in particular. The Christian People's Party will also underline the new freedom granted to the county councils when, as regional development actors, the funds are made available for regional development. For Hordaland it is about about. 60 million. In addition, the nine municipalities in Hordaland, which received a higher employer’s fee, will receive compensation for this in 2003. It gives Hordaland a bigger armroom. You can't talk about busses and businesses in Hardanger without stressing the line of racial protection, for repairing and upgrading the road network, for expanding broadband and digital communications, and not least for connecting fjords with roads and bridges. The signatures will highlight that bridge over Hardangerfjord would have been very important for business in the region, and I am pleased that a number in the Committee stress it. And to put it this way, the last words are not said until the bridge is opened. The Jondal tunnel is also very important. For the Odda community, he will significantly improve the road link to Bergen. I'm glad the planning work has now started. Finally, I would like to stress that lower interest rates and commercial rates are also important for Inner Hardanger and should contribute to optimism and hope for the future. I am referring to the fact that the government in the new year has notified a matter of the government's policy on instruments, and I recommend that the matter that we are now dealing with be taken into account by the protocol. I take up the proposal where the Christian People's Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e938	Anita Apelthun's seal has taken up the suggestion to which she referred. The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is soon to come. The President proposes that the meeting continue until today's map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e945	I am referring to the fact that the Labour Party, like the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, has expressed concern in the vote about the deterioration that we now see in the industry and other competitive activities. We believe that there is a need for a more offensive policy to address this situation. We also refer to the situation in Odda, where, according to the proposers, 800 industrial jobs have been lost in the last 20 years. We believe that it is important to be able to dispose of instruments that can help industrial enterprises transform production and continue as profitable and more environmentally friendly enterprises. In order to meet these kinds of challenges as we see here, these parties are promoting two proposals, which constitute the Committee's suspension, in which we ask the Government to organise an emergency response to business and local communities in the event of extensive job closure. And we ask that the Government facilitate the development of new jobs in areas affected by extensive job closures, and do good for these measures in the notified Landfill Communication on District and Regional Policy. Otherwise, I refer you to the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e954	There is no doubt that the proposers have addressed a topic which is highly relevant and highly topical. Across the whole country, local communities are concerned about and concerned about their industry. The tight budget of the year is a countermeasure, because strong dollar rates, high interest rates and high pay levels weaken the country's competitiveness. We now see that decades of development is affecting the export industry. In particular, the traditional industry is experiencing job degradation and job losses, which clearly creates major difficulties and considerable uncertainty in the local environments affected. As in Odda and Inner Hardanger, industrial opportunities and future developments are at the heart of industrial communities. Odda has also had migration status since 1996, and so far has received 17 million. kr from the State. In addition, local authorities have contributed similar amounts. It is positive that Odda has prioritised industrial bud shooting and innovative industrial development. When only 18 out of 133 people today are registered unemployed, the project has to be said to be successful. For environmental reasons, a conversion of the production of Odda Melting Plants is carried out. Since the process industry is exempted from the CO2 tax for competition reasons, the industry does not have State economic incentives for greenhouse gas reductions until a new allowance system enters into force. In St. Report. No 15 for 2001–02, however, additional communication to the EEAG on Norwegian climate policy, new instruments are recommended that we believe may be relevant to this project. Regional and district policy instruments are now decentralised. There is greater local freedom to adapt instruments to regional conditions. We see it as absolutely right that the county council can now, far more than in the past, give priority to geographical areas that they believe should be given greater attention. I think it is important to be told that corporate financial support itself could distort competition with other Norwegian companies that produce competing products. The development of industrial activities and the maintenance of industrial workplaces must be seen in a far more comprehensive and overall perspective than only selective measures. For the right, it is important to provide better framework conditions for the entire industry in Norway. We will continue to reduce taxes and taxes and simplify the form field. The government will promote innovation and innovation. Overall framework conditions are essential for business and industry throughout the country, and specific local measures must therefore be seen in the context of the overall improvement that the Government has made and that the Government will continue to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e967	There's a similarity between the matter we're dealing with now and the one we're dealing with instead. On the one hand, we are pursuing a policy – and have done so for many, many years – that leads industry and business to meet the wall sooner or later, and then all politicians become very concerned about finding medicine and repairing the damage that has arisen from a wild policy. In other words, we lay framework conditions not only in relation to laws and regulations, but also in relation to fiscal policy, infrastructure policy – a lack of infrastructure policy – which means that many communities have come into the situation Odda is in. I think we should be a little more general in relation to the means we're going to use. I think it's quite ok that one puts the spotlight on one society, in this case Odda, who can then in a way put the template also for the further debate. But it is not only Odda who is struggling with these problems – they will eventually rise to a greater and greater extent above the quite country if we do not take action that will allow the industry to have a future, and provide framework conditions so that it can compete with and compete. In its general policy, the Progress Party has committed itself to increasing growth. But then it is regrettable that the Storting has applied an action rule that says that in Norway we are not going to have growth, because a tight budget is so important. And then we don't have the opportunity to use tools to facilitate better relations for Norwegian business and Norwegian industry, especially non-competitive business, because we have to deal with a framework adopted by the majority in this Chamber for all years to come. What Norway needs is a solid domestic uplift, both in terms of tax relief and tax relief, because even though one here has been well on the move for two years, it is much more to go on. We need to make a massive uplift in infrastructure, and in particular it is important for the area of the matter we are dealing with now. And then it is regrettable that the Progress Party does not get the size of that infrastructure promise – on the road, on the tunnel, etc. and broadband. It is quite okay to discuss state instruments, and there will hopefully be a message during the year so that we can get a wider debate around it. But I think we should take care of ourselves to discuss only repair materials, i.e. funds that come after to possibly adopt jobs. It is not the case that the future or the workplaces or communities can be adopted. They have to be created, and then we have to do what is in our power to enable communities to create themselves, and for business to create new jobs. That situation is not present today. We are at least looking forward to getting the whole tool for treatment and assessment in the Storting, and in this context we will also continue what we have done every year, and put in place, among other things. a seed fund. It is clear that it is possible for business to enter and raise risk capital in order to obtain, where appropriate, valuable jobs or revitalise local communities. The opposite happens now, we're putting the communities behind because the framework conditions are as tight as they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e976	The Odda community has contributed to the overall prosperity development of our country in a special way as a very large industrial site for many decades. At the same time, a society like Odda is very vulnerable, because there are some big companies with a lot of jobs. Odda has lost more than 800 industrial jobs in the last 20 years, and there are concerns related to Document No. The 8th proposal. Following the promotion of this proposal on 18 June 2002 — a long time ago — the negative development of Norwegian business has really speeded up. In the last six months, some 2000 industrial jobs have been lost every month. There is therefore unfortunately good reason to believe that other communities will have problems similar to those experienced by the Odda community. The Central Party therefore believes that there is a need for an emergency response, and as indicated in the suspension, the Centre Party, together with the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, asks, ‘The Government to organise an emergency response system capable of responding to the needs of business and local communities in the event of extensive job closure’. Inner Hardanger and Odda have had a negative population development for many years, and what has happened at the Odda business has contributed to this in particular. Therefore, I think it is necessary to mention a report from the Health West that actually concludes that the hospital in Odda is to be closed down. And without saying more about the sad signal to the whole region, it's obvious that another force center in Odda is actually in danger of disappearing. But it's not the economy that creates. This is a wild centralisation policy on the part of the Government. So one has to make it more efficient for 2 billion kroner in health businesses for next year, and here it is the districts that are losing. The passive role of government parties in this Document No. In the view of the Centre Party, the 8 proposal underlines the lack of willingness of the Government to take seriously the negative development that the whole region is experiencing, and as similar communities – as Per Sandberg emphasised – will experience in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e988	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e991	The three minutes I'm going to devote to the transport that might give the region, and not least Odda society, the greatest hope of a new and better future, namely the Jondal Tunnel. It is well for this region, as for many other regions with a similar problem, that lasting improvement in transport measures is one of the things that is needed to give new impetus, new optimism and, in particular, new creation of badly needed jobs. It is then that there is a project that is not far away, and it is also important that we here from Stortinget give as clear and unambiguous a signal as possible that this project – the Jondal Tunnel – will try to obtain the necessary state funding for as clearly and as quickly as possible. It is probably the transport project that is most socio-economically profitable throughout the region of Hordaland, and it is also the transport project where the country is most likely to escape. This is a State contribution of 50 million. kr in a total design of approx. 350 million. kr, where also the municipalities in the area, Odda municipality, Kvam municipality on the other side of the fjord and Jondal municipality on the other side of the mountain, contribute funds even though they actually have a pretty empty municipal fund. So important and so crucial for them. Then it is important that there are unique signals from here. There were, at least in the context of the revised national budget, clear signals from a majority on the urgent planning of the project. It has been repeated in the 2003 budget. Then there were different signals in the Ministry of Transport's budget when it came to the crown measurement. We also see in this setting that it cracks a little bit. Those who participated in the 2003 state budget do not share and distribute crowns in this context, but at least we in the Progress Party are pleased that there is a majority in the Committee – a majority that also represents the majority in the Stortinget – who point out that one of the important measures with long-term impact for this region in Hordaland is precisely the Jondal tunnel. It's not far away. And the best signal you can give to the region that here is the life-creating and here it is possible to do business in the future, regardless of the degradation that has occurred on the big corner stone farm, is to put the tunnel in place. It costs a little bit for the state, but it has a huge ringing effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e1000	I'm not going to keep any long posts. I understand that there is a desire to limit the debate. I'm mostly going to join Rune Skjillaa's posts. I just wanted to say that when we promoted this Document No. The 8 proposal a few months ago, there were two things we wanted to get answers to. One was that when you have communities like the big community, you have a very clear desire to form in one direction – in Odda’s case towards a one-sided industrial community, because it was in the interests of the big society at the time the industry that developed – the big community also has a special responsibility in a situation where the economic cycle is turning around and it is no longer possible to have a society that is as one-sided in industry as the Odda community has been. The second was about the majority in this room and the Government has some strategy to meet the situation that this type of society is in, besides letting market forces and economic conditions prevail. I am not so sure that the answers given here today will be reassuring to people in Odda, who think that the future looks difficult. What we are experiencing here is that the sum of the structural changes that have been made in Norway over many years, which is the result of the policy that has been pursued in recent years, meets and is fully effective in Odda's case. It can be seen that poor local economic conditions for industry and traditional industrial routes in the West have been affected, and now cuts in the health sector also appear to be taking place. And when all these three things happen at the same time, it is clear that it is difficult for a community of 7 000 to 8 000 inhabitants not to enter a serious period of decline. At the same time, although we have not received good enough answers to the questions we asked, and must continue to ask them, I would like to mention a few specific things that can be done, and as I hope it will be possible to get total support in this room in the future. One that has already been mentioned here is the Jondal Tunnel, and the other is to make sure that the proposals that have now come from a sample in the Health West to shut down Odda Hospital are not realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e1009	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 1562]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e1023	We then go to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e1030	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Peter Gitmark on behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Signe Eye on behalf of the Workers' Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 3, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Workers' Party and Senterpartietproposal No. 4, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 5, from Signe Eye on behalf of the Workers' Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to introduce a grant per year. housing for municipalities which build dwellings beyond a minimum level. The grant is set at NOK 40000 for each dwelling in addition to a figure of 0,5 pst. by the population of the municipality.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e1063	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals that bind municipalities not to take higher than cost-covered rentals in their rental activities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e1078	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to split the housing aid scheme into two, one for pensioners and one for families with children and other beneficiaries of housing aid.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e1093	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to increase the housing gap for families with children by gradually raising the income threshold by 50000 kroner and the boute tax ceiling by 5000 kroner in excess of the current level.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e1108	We shall then vote on the motion for a resolution. The progress party has announced that they want to support the V of the setting, and we vote first over it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e1119	The President expects the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e1190	Alternatively, the remaining Roman numerals of the vote's motion for a resolution and proposal No will be voted on. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:141 [[2001-2002]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e1209	During the debate, Anita Apelthun Seele has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:146 [[2001-2002]] Alternatively, between the Committee's setting up and this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13.ana.ud1043e1298	Thus, today's map has been processed. Before the meeting is cancelled, the President will be aware that a meeting at Odelstinget will be called immediately. Odelstingen will propose to implement the Odelstingen meeting without delay.
