ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e26	The President proposes that today's meeting continue until today's map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e47	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 55 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a replacement of lines with up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e58	I Ot. pp. No 112 for 2001-2002 the Government promotes proposals for amendments to the Planning and Building Act of 14 June 1985 No. Seventy-seven. Among the main proposals made in this proposal are the proposals aimed at introducing maximum time limits for the processing of construction work in the municipalities. The introduction of clear deadlines for the processing of construction work in municipalities is expected to increase the pace and speed up the processing of building applications. The background to the introduction of maximum time-limits for the time-consumption of construction operations is that in several municipalities it has taken a very long time to process construction applications. In some cases, the duration of the proceedings has been more than half a year, and in some places even longer. Such a long treatment period has created significant problems both for house builders and for the enterprises involved in the construction work. The aim of these changes is therefore to bring about a faster, simpler and more predictable process of construction, which will benefit both owners of houses, owners of measures and the responsible undertakings carrying out the construction work. Let me not omit to add that many municipalities today are already within the time limits proposed, while other municipalities, which spend longer on building proceedings, will have to tighten up when deadlines are introduced. In the past there have been no deadlines for dealing with construction matters, with the exception of simple measures and notifications. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Government proposes to introduce time-limits in the field of construction, and that these proposals are also largely endorsed by the Committee, subject to certain amendments and reinforcements by the Committee. The rapporteur will be brief enough to make reference to some of the main proposals, while also mentioning the Committee's views and what the Progress Party proposes in relation to the proposals. The Ministry proposes, in its proposal, to introduce a maximum period of 12 weeks for the processing of municipal building applications. The majority support this proposal. The Progress Party, however, proposes a maximum of six weeks, but remains on its own. The Ministry then proposes a two-week deadline for the issue of a finished building certificate. A unanimous committee supports the proposal. The Ministry proposes a three-week period for the granting of a temporary permit to use barley. However, the majority of the Committee requests the Government to introduce a one-week period for the temporary authorisation of use. Furthermore, an eight-week deadline is proposed for the municipalities to submit complaints to the county council on the refusal of building applications. The majority of the Committee has cut two weeks in its proposal and set a six-week deadline, while the Progress Party considers that two weeks should be sufficient. It is also proposed that a six-week deadline should be set for the county to deal with cases where a complaint has given deferred enforcement under Section 42 of the Administrative Act. The majority support the proposal, but the Progress Party believes that the deadline should be two weeks. The Ministry proposes that pre-conferences be held within three weeks, while the Progress Party proposes two weeks. The Progress Party shall be given a majority in favour of its proposal for a two-week period and that this time limit shall be directly laid down in the law. Furthermore, a four-week deadline for other sectoral authorities to comment is proposed. The majority of the Committee supports this, while the Progress Party proposes a three-week deadline, without having a majority in favour. And finally, the government is proposing to reduce the deadline from four to three weeks for dealing with simple measures and to get the support of a unanimous committee. In its examination, the Committee has also sought to clarify more clearly what can be considered simple measures under Section 95(b) of the Act, as this may seem unclear. It has therefore resulted in a slightly limited application of construction procedures in accordance with the rules on simple measures. With regard to the notification system, the Committee broadly supports the Government's proposal to extend the notification system. The Party of Presidents proposes, in line with Document No. 8:59 for 2000-2001, to extend the notification system to measures up to 300 m2, but not to a majority. Furthermore, it is proposed that the responsible applicant be the recipient of neighbouring protests, as both the Progress Party, the Labour Party and the Centre Party oppose, because this may affect the legal certainty of neighbouring protest cases and impose a significant additional work on smaller construction companies in some cases where neighbouring protests occur. As far as responsibilities and control tasks are concerned, the Government proposes that control plans be annexed only to the application and that they no longer need to be approved by the municipality. The Committee agrees. So I will allow myself to make a comment of a more general nature on the current planning and building legislation. The main issue against the legislative reform adopted in 1995 is that the system of form documentation does not function properly and creates an unnecessary bureaucracy and a form fields that act both complicating, cost-effective and delaying in the construction process. It is therefore gratifying that the Committee agrees very much with the Progress Party in this view and that all batches demonstrate that the system based on extensive documentation can have certain weaknesses and therefore calls on the reduced Committee on Building Law to carry out a thorough review with a view to improvements. I think it is a good thing that a unanimous committee agrees that the Planning and Building Act works too complicated, and that simplification should focus mainly on future changes in building legislation, and that the selection set up to review the law has a mandate to assess further simplifications in this law. I choose this as the case rapporteur to interpret as a positive sign that there is a broad cross-political consensus on the Storting that the existing building legislation can and should be simplified and improved. Some say that the whole reform, pbl-97, is, however, wasted, and that we should rather reintroduce the law as it was before, to an appropriate degree. Whether the reform's intentions have been achieved in this way is still unknown to me at all. No experience so far known suggests that the reform has been successful in relation to its purpose. In fact, the experiences I myself have shown indicate the opposite. If it turns out that the critics are right that the law has not significantly improved the quality of new buildings, then the whole law as it has been set up today is to be described as a mere failure. The 2–3 billion SEK in additional construction costs that the reform has estimated on the house owners are wasted money for society and for the house builders. There are therefore compelling reasons to claim that the reform of the law is harmful and should be reversed. Law reform, pbl-97, is based more on hope and faith than on real facts. The action holder, that is, what we called the builder earlier, has to pay for a bureaucracy and a comprehensive paperwork that we can put little trust in has led to an increase in quality and better construction. The self-checking system, where the performer is to check his own work against completed forms, is to a small extent followed up at the construction sites around the country. Thus, one of the most central elements of the legislative reform is being undermined. The system just doesn't work like it was supposed to. What should we do? The responsibility of the municipalities and the action-holders for control and supervision must be strengthened at the expense of the own control of the construction operators, as has been the case in some other European countries. The formalised role of self-checking must be reduced and direct local supervision must be reintroduced in the construction sites, as proposed by the Progress Party. Reducing paper mill and forming fields is necessary. The requirements of the law need to be simplified and red tape needs to be significantly reduced in the construction process. In all cases, work on changes in the Planning and Building Act should be simplified as a starting point and strategy. The Progress Party has proposed a number of changes in line with what I have said here in my speech, and the Progress Party has also formulated a number of critical comments on the existing building legislation in the vote. The other parties join the vast majority of the comments made by the Progress Party, but this support unfortunately fails to support our concrete proposals for change. In conclusion, I would like to make a reference to the sample now set up for a three-year period to propose further simplifications in the building case legislation: should the sample have the ability to understand the madness of this law, and must the work of the sample produce results that lead to changes that really help, because here it really needs a real clean-up!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e104	The President did not fully agree if the representative made the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e107	I did.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e112	The representative Torbjørn Andersen then promoted the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e115	There is a clear need to clean up and simplify the provisions on construction matters in the Planning and Building Act. This is why the Workers' Party welcomes the fact that the Government has followed up much of the work that former municipal minister Brustad and the Stoltenberg government started with the document entitled ‘A Building Policy in the Future’ to simplify and speed up construction processes. But the Workers' Party does not think the Government's proposal in Ot.prp. No 112 goes far enough to significantly simplify and streamline the handling of construction materials. It also shows the position in which the majority of the Municipal Committee goes beyond the Government’s proposals in very many areas, with shorter deadlines and penalties. For the Workers' Party, it is an overall goal to get the housing construction speeded up here in the country. The Planning and Building Act is an important step in achieving this, and changes are needed so that one does not delay the construction of housing more than is absolutely necessary. Therefore, the Workers' Party also goes further than the Government at a good number of points in the setting. Indeed, many tell about long, costly procedures that go over months and years before building permits are granted. We can't have it that way. The proposition is also based on Document No. 8:59 for 2000–2001, which was presented by current State Councillor Solberg, and position S. nr. 199 for 2000-2001. I have noticed that several of the proposals that were made at the time are now forgotten. Only the Progress Party takes up all the proposals from then on, so the times change. The construction shaft treatment takes too much time and is not predictable. We have to do something about that. Time is usually money. Long proceedings cost the building projects and often go beyond the client. It's the builder who has to pay. It has been a long time since the remuneration of the construction contractors in the municipalities was paid with tax money received. Today, as in many other areas of the municipality, this is driven by the principle of self-sufficiency. Simplification of rules and shorter processing times may help to prevent fees from significantly increasing in the near future. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that it is absolutely necessary to intervene in many areas. A significant step is to introduce deadlines. That's what Stortinget will do today. However, the Workers' Party believes that deadlines have little effect if they are not followed up by penalties that motivate municipalities to keep deadlines. Therefore, the Workers' Party will intervene in order to introduce penalties at the same time as the deadlines are set. It will be tidy to the municipalities. We are in favour of reducing the construction fee by 5 pst if the time limits for the procedure have been exceeded. for each week the time limit is exceeded. It will give municipalities a greater pressure to process the completed application by the deadline, but at the same time it has not been cut more than the municipalities should be able to handle it. It was very surprising that the government only went in to get a warrant to provide regulations on sanctions at a later stage, and then will wait and look at developments. Experience would then take several years before this was assessed and implemented. That is why it is good that a majority of the Committee of the Right, Christian People's Party, the SV and the Central Party wish to impose sanctions from 1 July 2004. However, the Workers' Party does not understand the reason why the sanctions are not imposed from the same day that the deadlines are introduced. The Government considers that the two-week period for the provisional authorisation of use is reasonable and should have the same deadline as the final certificate. The working party disagrees with both. Temporary authorisation of use is based on the use of built-in equipment. It's always urgent. It costs to leave a finished building unused. It is urgent that we convert the building loan, which is an expensive loan, into the permanent loan that has a lower interest rate. Interest calculations carried out by the industry can demonstrate that reduced time compared to the granting of a user authorisation could lead to significant socio-economic savings. That's cheaper construction costs. That is why it is very good that everyone, with the exception of SV in Stortinget, now applies for a period of only one week. However, if the deadline is not met by the municipality, the building may be put into operation and the conversion of the building loan may be carried out. Complaints often take a long time, and this may be acceptable. However, that the municipality should have eight weeks to send a complaint case to the county council, as the government suggests, cannot be defended if we want to streamline and have a faster processing time. There I thought the council had had greater ambitions. But again, the Storting cutters in the time the municipality will have available, from eight to six weeks. It should be more than enough. That the Progress Party will have no more than two weeks, the Labour Party believes it is going too far, and that it will not be feasible. The Labour Party agrees that the pre-conference should continue to be voluntary for the private party, but that more clarification and commitment should be made to the municipality and that a maximum period of two weeks should be set to hold the conference. We believe that pre-conference preparations can save a lot of time and money in retrospect. It is interesting that, if a complete application is submitted to the preliminary conference, it should be possible to grant a building permit at the meeting. It also strengthens the preparation for the action holder and/or the applicant responsible. The Workers' Party and the Advance Party want simple measures under Section 95(b) to be specified directly by the law and not laid down in the regulations, as is the case with the other lots. Our reason for this is that in the past, what is defined as simple measures has been unclear. The fact that it is stated directly by the law will make it clear what is to be defined as this, and the Workers' Party will support proposal No. 10, from the Progress Party. The system of simple measures has three criteria, namely: that the regulatory plan following the work is carried out by the responsible company that neighbours do not complain Examples of simple measures are single dwellings, terraced houses and small blocks. As a result, many construction projects in the country would fall under the system of simple measures. In one area, the Labour Party disagrees with the government parties. It concerns the proposal for the responsible applicant to be the recipient of neighbouring protests. The Labour Party believes that it would be confusing to have two neighbouring alert systems, one for notification cases and one for mandatory measures, as proposed by the Government. We believe it is important that the municipality, as a neutral party to complaints, is the recipient. We also believe that the current system works well in terms of legal certainty and the interests of the parties. The interest of the professional assistant in promoting the action holder’s case is greater than that of the municipality’s husband. This may result in less accurate information from the neighbour on rights, etc. than what the municipality would have done. The neighbor may also feel more pressured not to complain. Why change a system that works satisfactorily today? In addition, the new scheme will not be less bureaucratic and therefore not time-saving. The Labour Party believes that the municipality is a good guarantor of transparency and cleanliness and will stick to today's system. Finally, the aim of the changes in the Law on Planning and Building must be to make users simpler and cheaper when they come into contact with the Law on Planning and Building. At the same time, the need for increased housing construction, high standards on the building stock and the security of the individual dwelling builder or purchaser shall not be affected. With the decisions taken here today in the Chamber, we are well on our way to a simpler and more efficient construction process. I take up the proposal from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e168	Signe Eye has promoted the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e171	This is a good day for all of us who are concerned with a simpler Norway. The proposals under consideration in Ot.prp. No 112 on the Law on Planning and Building, will involve faster procedures, greater predictability, more appropriate division of labour between the municipality and the construction industry, and not least a simpler and clearer law. As the vote shows, this case originates from a private legislative proposal, Document No. 8:59 for 2000-2001, promoted by the Right in 2001, and the Stortinget gave broad support to the intentions of the proposal. This wide connection is also found in this setting. Some of the proposals need to be considered in view of the fact that the length of the procedure is still too long in many places and that the municipalities also practice the rules of the law differently. The proposals contained in this proposal therefore aim to reduce, first and foremost, the length of proceedings in construction matters, while providing for the simplification and reduction of the scope of the proceedings themselves. There is a need for a more efficient and, not least, more predictable construction case process. There is reason to mention that many Norwegian municipalities are already dealing with construction applications within the time limits proposed in this odelstingsproposition. However, it should not be concealed that in some municipalities, perhaps especially in the press areas, we see that construction work can take a very long time. Not only is this beneficial to the builder and buyer, but it also leads to a lack of consistency between the supply and demand of new dwellings. The proposed changes to the deadlines will require municipalities and other bodies which are currently unable to process building applications within the proposed timeframes to establish a more efficient construction dossier process. The experience of municipalities that have already successfully implemented such measures shows that this can be done without the need to provide larger staff resources and more economic resources, rather than the opposite. At the same time, the proposed simplifications will help to facilitate the work of municipalities and action-makers on a building application. As many people know, I have a background as rapporteur in Tønsberg, a municipality that has worked systematically over several years to make the construction process easier for its citizens. Simple and regular building case handling over the counter in service centres and more professional focus on the complex issues has made the building case handling easier and not least more predictable. It places considerable demands on red tape, but also allows for a greater focus on more user-oriented building management. In many municipalities, deadlines will be introduced, including: in the case of construction proceedings, review procedures, provisional authorisation of use and the final certificate, those who currently exceed the proposed deadlines will have to deploy additional human resources in order to be up-to-date. Eventually we will see that the municipalities spend less time on the reminders, on all the “fire-fighting” and on all the time to explain that things take time. As a result, they have the opportunity to reduce this resource effort and instead use more resources to resolve matters. There is also a broad consensus in the municipal committee that there is a clear need for more simplifications in legislation. The focus of the legislative work already undertaken by the Government must therefore be to achieve further improvements and simplifications in order to create even more user-friendly legislation in this field. The municipalities are asking for simpler legislation, and SV, as they did in the previous debate, will rather call it a detailed management that we deliver what the municipalities here ask us to do. I would rather point to the willingness we have to further increase the requirements and user power over bureaucracy, by allowing an overall committee to go in order to reduce the construction fees of the municipality, or completely lapse, when set deadlines are not met. Furthermore, it is a central point that building charges are to be calculated on a self-cost basis. It is also worth paying for the municipality to provide good and fast service to its citizens. And then we're really making Norway a little bit simpler. On the right, we support the proposal for a decision on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e192	This is a good thing to deal with here in the hall, because we agree on the principle. And the main principle is that here we're going to set deadlines, because we think it'll be good for people, and because we think it'll be easy to get speed on housing. In connection with the matter we were dealing with, even the government parties felt that this was perhaps one of the most important measures we could take to speed up housing. But I guess it's not like that. This is a matter that is characterised by our hope and belief that deadlines will contribute to both faster and better processing, a simpler Norway and a bit of each. But we can't be absolutely sure, and that's of course a couple of dangers. One danger is that a person risks that construction fees may be higher, because some municipalities have too poor finances to sponsor this from their own fund, and thus a risk that, if you are going to get a faster treatment, they may have to charge higher fees. The other father is, of course, that in big, complicated cities – we don't have so many of them, but we have Oslo – one can risk that one actually doesn't contribute to getting more positive feedback, but one can risk having a municipality reject because this becomes too complicated to deal with. But on the other hand, we hope and believe that this is going to be good. So this is a detailed regulation, and I don't need to say that it's very stupid. For sometimes detailed regulation is right and good, as in this case where one introduces deadlines. There is more to the right that needs to implement these insignificances towards retail regulation, while every time they themselves make a detailed regulation, it is very well thought out and very difficult. But we now realize that sometimes this can be tricked – that's the way it is. I thought I'd pick up a couple of points where the main differences are. One is that there is disagreement about the timing of this introduction. There is the Workers' Party hard and says that we must introduce this from Day 1. So the municipalities don't want that. The municipalities clearly state in the hearing opinions that time limits are OK, but we cannot introduce it from Day 1 because it becomes too heavy – they have to have some time to convert to such an introduction. We are in favour of ensuring a majority in favour of the government, but in return we have said that it should be an ‘end date’ for this – so it should be an end date, so that this should be introduced within then and then. I think I'll be fine. In addition, the introduction of deadlines will be a challenge for some poor-economy municipalities. There is no doubt that municipalities that are struggling to get things together, and that need to take a promise in relation to dealing with construction matters, are especially struggling if they have a very poor municipal economy. This refuses to see the Government. The one about it. We're hoping it's going well, and then we're going to hear if we're right that the municipalities that have the worst finances will be the ones that have the most difficulty in implementing this – or else, as I said, the fee will increase. There is a disagreement in relation to what goes on with the responsible applicant, where we and the Government agree that the responsible applicant should be the ‘mailbox’ for complaints. Some think it's a stupid thing to introduce. I think it's good. I think the arguments for introducing this are good. As a result, it is tricked by the responsible applicant to enter into dialogue with neighbours who are interested in complaint. In addition, it is clear in the preparatory work here that the responsible applicant will have to write down and respond to what you have done in relation to what has been complained about. That means clarity for the people who are going to be involved in deciding this politically, and also gives the municipality an opportunity to go in and say: has the applicant responsible now done what he or she could do to ensure that this comes into place? I was a little skeptical of the principle of legal certainty when it came to this. I was skeptical as to whether this would weaken the ability of people to complain. I do not think so, simply because it has consequences for the responsible applicant not to report any complaints they have received. Now we're changing the law, and we're going to punish those responsible applicants who substantiate information. That's why I think this is going to be good. And all in all, I think this is going to be okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e207	I think everyone who has plans for construction is happy about this change. The first phase of the simplification of the Law on Planning and Building has now been completed. "This is what we've been waiting for so long" – and the government is on the move. And when the representative from SV says this is a ‘detail regulation’, my response is: hardly so, brother! The truth is that less detail needs to be laid down in municipalities – less detail needs to be provided, and they need to increase the pace. For the government party, it has been important to reduce the length of proceedings and simplify the procedure itself. This is good news for everyone who has construction plans, as I have said, and for the whole construction industry. Users shall be able to set public service requirements. The Christian People's Party stands on the side of the users and therefore wants to make Norway simpler by removing unnecessary laws, rules and regulations. I'm not going to repeat everything that's been said by so many here, but there's been temptations to cut time to deal with matters, and I'm going to have some temptations that have at least made me and the Christian People's Party happy. It's that there's a 12-week general deadline to deal with construction projects, and there's too many municipalities almost a revolution. Then there is a week's time limit for municipalities to decide on applications for temporary use and a two-week deadline for municipalities to decide on the application for roomforms – that's our proposal. One also suggests reducing the duration of treatment for simple measures to three weeks, which means major changes for those in this market. These changes will help to increase the pace, increase the number of people in need and provide a more targeted distribution of work between the municipalities and the actors, and not least provide a simpler and clearer piece of legislation for the individual and the construction industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e217	In this case, I would like to congratulate the Council of State on its efforts to bring forward a case to the Stortinget on all the necessary proposals for simplification. I would also like to congratulate the case-speaker, Torbjørn Andersen, who has contributed to a comprehensive and, at the same time, a thorough review of a complex area. The central party's view is reflected in the setting, and I refer to it when it comes to the various legislative changes, both in terms of deadlines and other simplifications. It appears that the Central Party is partly in the majority who support the Government's proposals and partly on proposals that go further, both shorter deadlines and further simplifications. Let me just stress that when Odelstinget now goes to the step of deciding to introduce deadlines, it may increase costs for some municipalities. Today, municipalities have shorter deadlines for building tax treatment than we propose, and other municipalities will of course have the possibility to join such a practice. But there will also be some municipalities that will now be forced to add additional resources to this kind of thing. We have argued that the Council of State in the Municipal Council of 2003 is discussing this more closely, so that the decisions we are making today do not mean that there are schools, care or other statutory tasks that have to pay for this. We support proposals for legislation that will also take care of what is happening if the municipalities do not comply with the deadlines that have now been set. We believe that they need to have time for the emergency conversion, which means that the building shaft fee will be cancelled or reduced first introduced from 1 July 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e230	I am not going to spend time going through the whole bill and committee setting. In general, the Committee has joined the Government's proposal, with slightly different deadlines on some points. So the basic principles have been implemented, and I think that is positive. The proposals are based on a Document No. 8-proposals made by Per-Kristian Foss, Sverre Hoddevik and myself in the 2000-2001 session. It is not that many proposals from there have now been put in a drawer, but perhaps because they have been processed by lawyers, they have become significantly better – considerably more feasible in the legal world, where construction is the subject of construction. Among other things, the whole reform with clearer clarification of the simplification of simple measures is part of the follow-up to the most controversial proposal in Document No. The 8-proposal, that we could imagine that a single dwelling, if the neighbor didn't have problems with it, could be built without full construction work. I remember that there were few who supported us in the Chamber at that time, and at least not the government at that time, but now I'm glad that we all agree that with the principles that lie here, it can actually happen as well. Time limits are important, as the Committee also says. There is a possibility that time-limits in this matter, and perhaps not least in the matter under consideration in the Committee on Energy and the Environment, dealing with the planning side and the time-limits there, will have an impact on the rate of development and on the speed with which new projects are being launched. It's important to get better structure, but I think what we do on the plane side can be as important as what we do on the construction axis side. I also want to stress that what we're doing here, in a way, are the immediate measures, in the sense that that's what you could do quickly. Thus, the Bondevik I Government has set up a law-enforcement committee, and a building law committee is now set up, which has a clear mandate to go through both the simplifications and the evaluation of the reform that has been used to speed up the process of building proceedings, and also to look, with uncritical eyes, whether it is part of the reform that should possibly be reversed. I want to comment on one point, because I want the Storting to be aware of it. The representative Eye said it was incredible that eight weeks were to be spent sending a complaint case to the county council. Intuitively, it may also seem like a long time, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that we will, of course, implement the reduction from eight to six weeks proposed here by the Committee. It will be passed as law. However, it will also require work to clarify the requirements for proceedings between the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Civil Ombudsman, the County Council and the Municipality of Oslo, for it has been one of the major points of dispute. What are the procedural requirements? For it is also a requirement under the Administrative Act that the body which has decided that a case should be considered, i.e. decided on the first decision, for example. the works law committee in the municipality is also the body which should be able to review the case in a complaint procedure prior to such transmission. So there's a little bit of a different legal requirement that makes it take some time. I believe that it is fully possible to carry this out in six weeks, but it will therefore require that we be critical of how thorough the procedure is to be done, and that we gain an understanding with the county offices and the civil ombudsman of guidelines to maintain it. Let me say two things about this with fees. We asked for a warrant because we felt that the municipalities should have time to streamline the procedure in relation to the new deadlines. We thought it would be ‘upsycological’ to impose sanctions on the same day as a new proposal is put in place, because it takes time in the municipal sector to get through this. I therefore think that the majority in the Grand Duchy has done something wise, when it is only now that one wants to signal that one should have sanctions, by at least allowing it to come a while later, and allowing the municipalities to have an adjustment period. In addition to that, I would like to say that the potential for further simplifications and improvements in the regulations to be developed after the law has now been given is great. The government should do its best to ensure that the regulatory homes we now receive contribute to simplifications and not distortions, as there may have been some instances in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e247	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e250	First, I'll give praise to the Solberg Council for her efforts and commitment to improve and simplify planning and building legislation. But I'll go straight to a couple of concrete things. Document No. 8:59 for 2000-2001, which is an essential part of the basis for this ostrich proposition. It was promoted by representatives Erna Solberg, Foss and Hoddevik in its time, and here it was a proposal to extend the notification system to 300 m2. It seems to me that the Council of State has apparently left this proposal to extend the notification system to measures up to 300 m2, but perhaps I am wrong. I would like the Council of State to answer that question. Another thing: a sample is reduced to work on, look at and go through the existing planning and building law over a three-year period. Does this mean that the Right will do something about the Planning and Building Act during this period, or will you sit for three years and wait for the final adjustment from this sample?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e259	To start with, there will probably be new changes, especially on the regulatory side, in the Law on Planning and Building during this period. As I said, there are regulations that have to be drawn up in relation to it. If we see some specific areas of the work that should be regulated by law, we will do it earlier. On the plane side, as I have said, is more important than getting housing up faster, there will probably be much bigger reforms. The Plan Law Committee is expected to deliver the suspension before Easter this year, and in this respect the entire delay in the major regulatory issues, and the entire planning process, will be the basis for the Government to come to the Storting with proposals for reforms in that area. It is under the responsibility of the Minister for the Environment. So the one house question of 300 m2. When we proposed that the notification system be extended, it was in view of the need to have a claim that it was a responsible applicant, i.e. a company, who was authorised to do this construction work. It is a requirement under simplified measures and not under the notification system. That is why we have chosen to achieve exactly the same thing with the three main requirements we have for simplified measures, which is, therefore, an intensification of what has happened in the past, namely having a responsible applicant in relation to the definitions of the law, neighbours should not complain, and that should be in accordance with the regulatory plan. As a matter of principle, no authorities have anything to say that they are going to deal with this matter in any way, because what they are going to object to, would have been clarified as criteria in the future regulatory plan. In this way, it's not just a 300 m2 single dwelling that could be built this way. Provided that the municipality has not placed any special restrictions on the regulatory plan, significantly greater construction than this could also be built after a three-week treatment period and after simplified measures. But we have stressed that there should be a responsible applicant, so that we have the consumer perspective with us, and that we have certainty that the papers are in order.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e266	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the word. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e276	The president's a little bit in doubt if we're many enough to be able to vote. That's why the president wants everyone to take their places, and then we'll take a test run, so we'll see if we're enough. The president asks everyone who's here to press the FOR button, and we'll see how many we are.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e289	We are then ready to go to voting. That means everyone has to vote all the time, otherwise we won't get a valid decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e296	In the course of the debate, 18 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Signe Eye, on behalf of Workers' Party proposal No. 2, by Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party proposals No. 3-18, from Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Party of Advancement The President first refers to proposal No. 2 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose to wind up today’s system of documented self-control for responsible undertakings and instead to establish a system in which the action holder has the right to engage either the municipality or other independent construction inspector to perform the necessary professional oversight of the quality and performance of the action.’; Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the simplification committee set up on 15 March 2002 increases the pace of its work and finalises at the end of 2003’.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up guidelines for setting the level of fees for the processing of building materials in the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to make proposals so that, in the event of a refusal of the building application, the applicant may refund the building fee in its entirety.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the Law on Planning and Building, which are appropriately based on the provisions of the Law as it was before 1 July 1997, if there is no evaluation of the legislative reform by the end of 2003 which clearly demonstrates that the quality of construction has been significantly improved as a result of the 1995 legislative reform.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a maximum period of 2 weeks for municipalities to submit complaints under the Planning and Building Act to the County Council.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose a maximum period of 2 weeks for the State to deal with cases where a complaint has been put at risk.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a clarification in the Planning and Building Act of the type of measures to be defined as simple measures and addressed in accordance with § 95(b) – Simple measures.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals to simplify Section 93 so that fewer measures become subject to application.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to extend the notification system to include small and simple measures for commercial and private use with gross area up to 300 m2.’; Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the restoration of the municipal building control system on the construction sites for less private activities such as residential buildings.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose to simplify and reduce the number of functions requiring responsibility.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks for proposals to reduce the number of classes of measures from 3 to 2.’; Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to restore more powers to the action holder so that it can itself be responsible for the application and verification of its own private actions.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the closure of the central register for the recognition of responsible undertakings and, instead, to facilitate the establishment by the industry itself of a central register of industries in which undertakings are listed on a voluntary basis with their documentary qualifications.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to make proposals to grant exemptions for a period of 10 years.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e637	New point (a) of the first subparagraph is the subject of an aberrant proposal. 3 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the European People's Party (Christian ‘The Planning and Building Act shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 86a, first paragraph, the following point (a) is inserted: The measure does not have a gross area exceeding 300 m Paragraph 86a, first subparagraph, points (a), (b) and (c) become new points (b), (c) and (d).’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e659	It will then vote on the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e769	Paragraph 93a, new sixth and seventh sentences, No. 3 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. the following new sixth and seventh sentences are inserted after paragraph 93a: If this time limit is exceeded, the action holder may charge a reduced construction fee under the provisions of paragraph 95. 4th@item: inlistbox Obligations of the municipality to make the pre-conference binding for further consideration.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e832	For paragraph 1, there is an aberrant proposal, paragraph 1. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 93(b) the first paragraph is replaced by the following: An application for action under Section 93 may be made by the responsible executioner or the action holder himself. The applicant shall ensure that evidence is provided in the application as to how all relevant requirements of the provisions laid down in or in accordance with this law are to be met, unless otherwise expressly stated in the application. The application shall be signed by the applicant.’;» Alternatively, the vote shall be taken between paragraph 1 and the proposal of the Party of Advancement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e852	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e859	The President thinks we have to take the vote again. There were many who voted incorrectly, assuming the president.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e872	It is voted on by the other paragraphs and paragraphs of the paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e924	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 3, from the Progress Party, and alternatively, between the vote and the proposal of the Progress Party, which reads as follows: ‘§ 95, paragraph the first paragraph is replaced by the following: When the application is complete, it shall be processed and decided by the municipality as soon as possible and at the latest within 6 weeks.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e959	There are three different proposals. There are only two proposals for a new No. (4) Proposal No. 1 by the Labour Party, and proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘§ 95 new paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: If the time limits for the proceedings laid down in this Act are exceeded, the building fee shall be reduced by 5 pst. for each week the time limit is exceeded. This provision shall not apply where the exceedance is clearly due to the facts of the action holder.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘§ 95 new paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: In the event of exceedances of the procedural time limits laid down in this Act, the building fee shall be halved in the case of exceedances up to one week. In the case of exceedances of up to 2 weeks, the construction fee shall be abolished in its entirety. In the case of exceedances exceeding 2 weeks, the construction permit shall be deemed to have been granted. Due to exceedance of the time limit conditions which can be clearly attributed to non-municipalities, the provisions here do not apply. § 95 current No. 4 and Nos 5 becomes a new paragraph. 5 and No 6.’ In addition, there is a proposal, including proposal No. 3. from the Party of Advancement to No. 2nd paragraph, third sentence. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 95, paragraph the third sentence of the second paragraph is replaced by the following: Other authorities must give their decision or deliver their opinion within 3 weeks from the date of transmission.» The reference to the number and point of this proposal is incorrect. The proposal shall relate to § 95 paragraph. The first sentence of the second paragraph. We then go to voting over the paragraph and vote first on § 95 no. 2 and § 95 Nos. So the first term is 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e1003	There is then an alternative between the Committee's setting up Section 95 No. The first sentence of the second paragraph and the corrected proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e1015	Opinion of the Committee on Section 95 paragraph The second and third sentences of the second paragraphs are added to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e1025	The President will then vote on the proposals for a new No. 4 and then, first of all, on the proposal from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e1037	Then there is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The Progress Party has announced that they support the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e1051	Opinion of the Committee on Section 95 paragraph 4 is added to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e1103	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 3, from the Progress Party. This proposal shall be to the fifth sentence of the first subparagraph, not the sixth sentence, as stated in the vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 95(b) fifth sentence is replaced by the following: An appeal may be brought against a decision as to the nature of the case.’ First of all, there is a vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e1124	The Committee's recommendation to Section 95(b) is addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e1189	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, to § 98 new No. 5th@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 98 new paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: The provisions of § 98 do not apply to simple measures under § 95(b).’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e1259	The party of progress has announced that they are moving towards it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e1288	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, to Section 116a, fifth sentence. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 116a, fifth sentence, is replaced by the following: The periodic penalty payment shall be imposed on the person responsible for the infringement and shall be due to the treasury.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e1335	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e1346	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-13-lower.ana.ud1833e1362	B and C will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
