ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e48	Honourable co-representatives! Former Depositary Representative Ingvar Lars Helle died on 14 May, 70 years old. Helle was the great representative of the Left and Rogaland from 1969 to 1973. In the last year he joined the New People's Party, where he was the party president in the period 1978-80. Ingvar Helle also served in the City Council of the Left in Stavanger and was later the Group leader of the New People's Party in Rogaland County. He later returned to his old party, and was awarded honorary membership six years ago in Rogaland Left. At Stortinget, Helle was the first Vice-Chairman of the Justice Committee, then Secretary of the Transport Committee. He was also elected Norway's delegate to the UN General Assembly. As a wholesaler, Ingvar Helle fought to balance social inequalities between groups in the Norwegian community and between nations. He worked expediently to provide the best possible opportunities for immigrants, and he worked purposefully for full equality between all groups in society. He had a marked social sense of justice, which was reflected in his work as a magnificent and local politician. Ingvar Helle was born in Larvik, but moved to Rogaland as a 14-year-old, to the then Hetland municipality, where the father was a school principal. He also came to be in the school for several years, first as a lecturer at Stavanger Handelsgymnasium and later as a principal at Stavanger Handelsskole. He was a civil economist from Norway's School of Economics and also had several studies abroad. Helle joined the business community as well, among other things. as Director of Statoil. He also had several international assignments for the company. He had an unusually large working capacity throughout his life. In addition to his full directorship in Statoil, in 1992, he took a two-and-a-half-year legal examination, half of his normal study time. He was 59 years old. Until 1997, Helle served as Director and Special Adviser for Statoil, among others: in Thailand and Venezuela. From 1997 he was a lawyer in Helle, Torall, Berven and Brygfjeld. He was particularly involved in replacement cases for workers in the North Sea. Long after the disease had begun to weaken him physically, he processed great and important matters with luck. Despite failing health, he worked as a lawyer until the end of 2001/2002. Ingvar Helle had three sons with the wife Ellen Synnove. He will be remembered by all those who cooperated with him on the Stortinget. We bring peace to Ingvar Helle's memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e71	The representative Anne Helen Rui and the meeting alternate Per Steinar Osmundnes, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e82	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e87	I suggest Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e92	Mr. Øyvind Halleraker has been proposed as President-in-Office. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker is considered unanimously elected President of today’s meeting. The representative Per Sandberg will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e97	On behalf of the representatives of Vidar Andersen, Øyvind Korsberg, Torbjørn Andersen and myself, I would like to propose measures to improve the infrastructure of drinking water supply and sewerage.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e103	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the scheduled time of 9 p.m. 15 to the current map has been completed. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e121	There is reason to stress the importance of having now received a thorough review and assessment of the Storting's control of the government and administration as such. Over the last ten years, the control function of the Storting has gained an increasingly important place in political work. Minority governments with a weak parliamentary basis, further development of the external control bodies of the Storting, such as the National Audit Office and the EOS Committee, the separation of state companies and alternative organisation of public activities have contributed to the increased need for clarification of important rules of the game. The government is constitutionally and politically accountable to Stortinget, while Stortinget's responsibilities include: is to ensure that the Government complies with the decision of the Storting. Furthermore, the government is accountable to the government. This is important to stick to. Caution should be exercised on the part of the Storting to go too far into the government's exclusive marks. There is also reason to stress the responsibilities of individual expert committees to monitor the effective follow-up of decisions and recordings promoted. The control of the size is primarily an ex-post control and consists of both purely legal and discretionary controls. As far as the latter is concerned, the Supervisory Committee should, at my discretion, show restraint in overcoming the discretion of a Council of State. It must be important for the Control Committee whether the Council of State has exercised discretion within the framework of its powers and not whether the assessments are wise. That other committees may have different approaches is another matter. However, control work must not become a partisan tactical game. You have to deal with the rules of the game and the guidelines that apply, otherwise the control work could not be taken seriously. The basic law § 75h, the right of convocation and the obligation to explain itself in that context, has been central to the treatment of the selection mode. Everyone agrees that the Storting should preferably obtain information from sources other than by forced convocation. The right of appeal shall then be exercised only in exceptional cases. As regards the question of the obligation of explanation, the Committee shares its views on the explanation of internal decisions of the College of Government. The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party believe that in an exceptional control case where there is a legitimate suspicion of serious errors and deficiencies – and I stress the legitimate suspicion – the Stortinget should be able to require an explanation of internal decision-making processes in the College of Government, as part of the clarification of the formal and real responsibilities of the Council of State. In such a situation, it is clear that the Storting must have the right to address the most unpleasant questions. If not, control could not be real. However, the threshold must be very high. Another majority, consisting of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party, maintains the previous decision of the Storting that a minority's right to request consultation shall apply only to the members of the Control Committee. With the sharp increase in the number of hearings we have experienced in recent years, there is reason to set certain requirements for consensus before hearings are initiated. In the same way as in relation to the Basic Law § 75h, the Committee is also divided into the view of Stortingen's right of access. The majority, consisting of the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left, are of the opinion that the Parliament, as the country's main political assembly, and also the country's legislative assembly, which has been given power by the Constitution, must be able to require the transparency of any public document held by the government or government. It may not be possible for a government to withhold information relevant to the control work of the Storting. This is really about the actual distribution of power between big business and government. But that the Storting has such competence does not mean that it will be used often. On the contrary, it aims at the very special cases where there is justified suspicion of defects or defects. For our part, we want Storting's right of access to the Rules of Procedure to push aside any doubts. The Labour Party therefore supports the proposal for a new provision in the first and third paragraphs of Section 49a of the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, the proposal for the second paragraph, which involves an increased transparency of a minority in the control committee, is not supported by the Workers' Party. A central theme of the sample as regards the balance of power between government and expansion has been the government's disclosure obligation. As you know, the obligation to provide information is based on custom and not established by the Constitution. Whether a government or a state council has fulfilled the obligation to provide information is one of the main control criteria of the Storting, perhaps the most important. Clear rules for this obligation are difficult – and perhaps impossible – to determine, but the government has to be responsible for ensuring that the Storting has a sound basis for making its decisions. This must also entail an obligation to provide information on both strong professional objections and important information that comes to one's attention after the case has been brought before the Stortinget. The wording that has been used for all information to be ‘correct and comprehensive’ gives, in my view and in the Committee’s view, a good picture of the requirements to be set. The control committee plays an important role in the control work of the Storting. In order to enable the Committee to fulfil its responsibilities, in particular with regard to pilot studies, etc., it is important that the Committee be given qualified assistance. The Supervisory Committee has therefore unanimously addressed the Presidency with a view to strengthening the Secretariat of the Control Committee. The majority and the Presidency will have to deal with it afterwards. In this respect, I would like to stress that the additional assistance must have the professional competence necessary not only to carry out reasonable feasibility studies and to remove the minors, but also to promote proper information for policy-making in the control committee if the pilot studies show that there is a basis for continuing control work. In this respect, however, I would like to stress that it is permissible, and perhaps necessary from time to time, for the administration to make mistakes. No one exists that is flawless! And it shouldn't be like that, even if you have a minority government, that all mistakes should be called out loud and made into major political issues. It's human to fail, but it's also human to recognize their faults and try to correct them, so that errors do not become common in government, and errors do not form the basis for later customs and discretion. Therefore, it is important for the Storting to show some degree of superiority, but it is also important that the Councils recognise as far as possible errors that are being made, and seek to prevent this from having consequences for subsequent management. Since the new law and instructions of the National Audit Office are to be dealt with first until the autumn, I will confine myself to some general points of view regarding the Riksrevision. The National Audit Office carries out important control tasks on behalf of the Stortinget, but the Riksrevision is also an instrument for the Councils of State in their day-to-day management. Without this audit, neither the State Councils nor the overall management of the ministries will be able to exercise control over their own administration. The Riksrevision is therefore an important instrument both for the Stortinget and for individual state councils, and for the government as such. There is therefore no fundamental conflict between the Riksrevision and the State Councils, nor between the Grand Duchy’s control tasks with regard to the State Councils and the underlying agencies. The idea behind this, and what we need to do, is that the Riksrevision should be the instrument, the tool and the institution that we need to be able to ensure that decisions taken in the country's top political body, the Stortinget, form the basis of public administration. It is an absolute condition of a national government in which the people shall possess power through the chosen greatness. The audit and audit reports provide important guidance for control activities. The general impression is that the system works well with both the departments and the underlying agencies. From the Workers' Party's side, we see no need to change the governance model of the Riksaudition today. We consider the system to be appropriate, but there are shared opinions on this in the committee. We will come back to this issue when new law and instructions on the Riksrevision are to be dealt with. Separation of State activities to different companies etc. create specific challenges. I am pleased that a joint committee stresses that the waiver of state activities should not weaken the Riksrevision and the ability of the Stortinge to exercise control. Nor should the government and its state councils organise themselves away from their responsibilities by reorganising the administration. It is also important to have governance models that enable the people through the elected bodies to have control and control with key social policy institutions in this country, which are responsible for the general development of well-being and for the functioning of society as we have imagined. This does not mean that all departments are to be controlled in detail either from the point of view of size or by the individual Council of State, but that means that an organisation must be set up to enable you to enter and change the course at any time if necessary. It is therefore important that, in the future, through the necessary renewal of the public sector, we are also concerned about how we should achieve sensible control mechanisms, so that the renewal processes that are being carried out are not to be broken by unnecessary control procedures. This is a difficult balance, but it's a balance sheet that you have to be aware of and have a clear view of, especially in the government, but also in the Storing. A controversial theme in the handling of the sample settings is the question of the transparency of the Riksrevision in government notes, etc. In my view, it cannot be such that the Riksrevision is to test internal political processes. On the other hand, it is the task of the National Audit Office to monitor the decisions taken and their follow-up. Preparations for decisions – pre- and counter-arguments – are and must be an internal sphere of government. There is broad agreement that the Riksaudition should have access to all the documents it needs to carry out its tasks. This is also achieved in practice. Therefore, no change is necessary at this point. It is also important to stress that the way in which the Riksrevision carries out its tasks is up to it alone. Even in cases where the Storting chooses to instruct the Riksrevision to carry out a mission, the Riksrevision sovereignly determines the manner in which this is to be done. However, since the issue of the National Audit Office should, where appropriate, be transparent in government notes and manuals for the members of the Government, it would have been desirable for the Committee to have been clearer at that time in its decision on how this should be done. But here the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have chosen to postpone the final decision on this until we discuss proposals for law and instructions for the National Audit Office. I would have liked the committee to have been able to make this clear on a fundamental basis in the context of the issue. Now we just have to wait until we get the case up to a new treatment until the fall. However, I think it is strange – and I have to say it – that you can be clear from the Right and the Christian People's Party that the Stortinget should not have access rights, but is unclear as to whether the Riksrevision should have access rights. This is not related, in my opinion. However, as noted in the referral, the Committee shall return to this question in the context of the examination of the new law of the Riksrevision. It is important to clarify this, where a clear majority makes what they actually think visible, in order to avoid later conflicts, conflicts that should not be brought about. It will lead too far to go deep into all the essential points of the setting. There is broad agreement to show restraint in the setting-up of large-scale investigation commissions, and also to include a provision on such commissions in the Rules of Procedure. Furthermore, Storting's control with delegated legislative powers, regulatory control, is an area that should be given greater attention in the future. In recent years, the control of the government's follow-up to the Storting's instructions and assumptions has been central. St. Report. No 4 on the follow-up to the request and investigation decisions has led to increased attention to how decisions are actually dealt with, and it was precisely the intention of deciding to promote a separate notification of requests and investigations. The notification has also revealed a strong increase in requests decisions in recent years, while the enforcement of investigations is surprisingly few. This certainly has something to do with minority governments with weak parliamentary support in the Storting, but in itself, in my opinion, is a very unfortunate development, which can in the long run lead to a blurring of the responsibility between government and enlargement. I believe that many decisions to benefit could have been formulated as inquiries – in order to ensure that the Stortinge when the case comes back has a satisfactory basis for making decisions. In order to retain its power over the great things in the long term, I think that the Storting should be careful to develop a degree of big business that goes on that it makes instruction decisions in too many cases. This may, of course, be necessary sometimes, but at those times the cases should be sufficiently investigated so that the Grand Duchy can be sure that the decision it takes can be implemented. If this is not the case, you could end up in a situation where the population will lose confidence in the political system by making decisions that give people hope, but in the next round are unable to implement them, because not all consequences have been overlooked. Therefore, the initiative of the Storting to put matters on the agenda should be able to force an application decision on investigations to a decision in the event of disagreement between the Government and to base its final decisions on the investigations that would have to be delivered. It may take a little longer, but it also means that you have more opportunity to make the right decisions. The committee has devoted considerable space to the Riksrecht in the investigation, and has had many interesting recordings. I think most people would think that the Riksrecht as it appears today is little suitable and should be liquidated in its present form. Where the Workers' Party and the majority of the Committee are unable to support the majority proposal of the Committee on the Transfer of National Liability to the ordinary courts, this shall include, inter alia, the following: because we do not consider it appropriate for the ordinary prosecution authority to be given responsibility for investigation and prosecution. You can't constitutionally ignore the fact that the government of the Council can instruct the prosecution authority. Although the law would remove the authority of instruction in such cases, political sensitivity would be involved because of the link with the government. I am therefore pleased that a majority supports the proposal that the issue of alternatives to today's national law be examined in greater detail, while at the same time expressing the need to find a different judicial body to judge matters covered by the Liability Act than the national law of today. I find it difficult if the cases are to be dealt with in the ordinary court system, in the city and provinces, that one should have the opportunity to actually, on a real basis, sit and assess whether, for example. the information law of a Council of State towards Stortinget is complied with. So I don't think the ordinary courtroom is the courtroom we should use on such issues. But we need to be certain that even in such questions, one should have the opportunity to try the blame question in two courts. Therefore, further investigation work in this area needs to be carried out, and in order to propose the necessary constitutional changes, so that it is possible for the next enlargement, during the next enlargement period, to take a final decision on what this should be like for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e181	I will first be allowed to thank the rapporteur for a thorough and reflected introduction to this debate. On many of the individual points and the main areas, I actually think the rapporteur was so good that it would have been tempting to copy the post and hang it in glass and frame in the meeting room of the Control and Constitutional Committee, and perhaps in some other of the Committees of the United Kingdom. Through the suspension of the selection process to examine the control function of the Grand Duchy and the subsequent treatment of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the Grand Duchy has today had a fundamental debate on the role of the Grand Duchy itself, the means of exercising control in a good way, and the division of powers and labour between the Magnificent and the Government. Majority control of government and administration underwent a number of reforms during the 1990s. In 1993, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg set up the Control and Constitutional Committee, in 1995, the EOS Committee was set up, open consultations became a reality in 1996, and the use of large-scale investigation commissions was more frequently used. In addition, the Riksrevisionen and the Civil Ombudsman have expanded their fields with relevance to Stortinget. The reforms have taken place separately and some of them without major debate in the Grand Duchy. In many ways today's debate needs to be seen as a summary of how we have come out overall after all these reforms and how the control function as a whole can best be carried out in the future. The increase in the number of control bodies confronts the challenge of being able to distinguish between driving control and governing the government in advance or under its authority. There may therefore be grounds for recalling the fundamental principles of parliamentary democracy. The idea that the elected legislative power should exercise control over the executive is derived from the constitutional theory of the 1700s and has become a fundamental feature of almost all democratic governance. In particular, a national Parliament is intended to legislate, adopt budgets and debate other issues of general political interest. On the other hand, exercising power — on an ongoing basis and in individual cases — must be left to government and administration. So it's not like some people here in the house later to think that the government is going to be just a dispatch office to put into practice the big thing's very detailed decisions and instructions. The exercise of power must take place in government and administration, which has the capacity and competence to do so. So it's going to be that the Storing has the best conditions to exercise control over the executive – that is, the government – in retrospect. Such control is an entirely natural and necessary part of the distribution of power, even under a parliamentary system. Therefore, control is the opposite of big business but control exercised in the right way and at the right time. Indeed, the control of the aggregate shall take the form of a subsequent investigation and, where appropriate, a penalty on the executive. This is precisely why it is so important that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the EEAS is aware of this in its work to carry out the control task. Now that we want to grant the right of initiative to a minority of one third of the members of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, this is not justified by the fact that the control activities are not yet comprehensive enough. This is basically justified. It is an important democratic principle that the minority should be able to examine whether the majority abuses its power. Granting the right of initiative to one third of the members of the Control and Constitutional Committee shall ensure this access for a minority in a situation where the government has a majority behind the Stortinge. However, the introduction of this minority right places a great deal of responsibility on all lots so that the institution will not be abused and discredited, for example: by opening a control case solely in an attempt to score a partial political gain, or by going beyond the control mandate and interfering with the administration's ongoing proceedings, or by jumping into legal proceedings, to mention some examples. When, through the decisions taken in this matter here today, this Committee is given extended powers and new rights, this should not be seen as an expression of our excellent satisfaction with the manner in which the Committee has carried out its supervisory task. That these decisions are being made today, with Right-wing support, despite and not because of the experience we have gained so far in this great period. It must be admitted that it has been difficult to deal with the fact that, at times, the Committee has taken on something similar to the role of the Enlarged Council, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary, the defender and the deputy national audit at one and the same time. When and if the Committee interferes with the ongoing procedure in each department, it is an expression of a perversion of the control function. The consequence is an eradicating of the lines of responsibility, which will make it difficult to sanction in retrospect. So a few words about the Basic Law § 75 f, about the right of the Storting to transparency in government and administration's internal documents: the majority of the Frøiland Committee points out that the interpretation of how far this right of access extends in practice and theory has been more controversial. On this point, the majority have come to the very original idea that they will include a separate provision in the Storting Rules of Procedure that regulates this. This is with respect to notifying a very special procedure. If the majority is of the opinion that this issue should be clarified or clarified more precisely, the natural and necessary procedure would be for those parties to promote a proposal for a constitutional amendment, which is dealt with in an ordinary manner. A new wording in Stortingen’s Rules of Procedure does not clarify how the Constitution should be understood in this respect. The rules of procedure of the Grand Duchy regulate the negotiations and the activities of the Grand Duchy and are not constitutionally binding on the Government or on the interpretation of the Constitution. For this reason, the majority should take the time to follow the procedure set out in the Constitution to amend the Constitution, and not to try a shortcut by first amending the Rules of Procedure. It seems obvious to me, or at least not unlikely, that this will be used afterwards as an argument to just change the Basic Law at this point. This is, in our opinion, a fundamentally very unfortunate procedure, to which the majority should not submit. Finally, I would just like to stress that on most points there is a relatively broad consensus in the vote, as the rapporteur has explained. I am pleased because this is an area that has everything to do with the broad political consensus on the rules of the game and on how the control function of the Storting should be performed in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e210	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, not only for the statement he had today, but also for the very real job that has been done before we came to the Stortingen with the matter. In most areas we share the views of the rapporteur, but there are some exceptions, and I will come back to them. Then I'll give praise to the Frøiland Committee. They have also done a real job, which means that the committee has been able to do the job it has done. The Frøiland Committee has carried out a systematic review of the control function of the Storting and thus a clarification of the third function of the Storing. I think this function is going to become more and more important in the years that are coming, not least because state business has been separated into corporation or state corporations, and thus more and more decisions unfortunately seem to be taken in closed rooms, as is being done in several healthcare companies now. Political governance is weakened. Decisions are also increasingly made at the intersection of policies and business, and the more important it is that the control function of the Storting is reviewed, clarified and strengthened. It will strengthen transparency and thus popular governance. The control of big business by government and government is a prerequisite for democracy and for the maintenance of the balance of power between legislative and executive powers. The question is, is it that the government is the executive of what the Biggest determines, that is to say, follows up the decision of the Biggest? Only a legislative and admissibility check can be found out. Furthermore, control is important to reveal whether there should be abuse of power, camaraderie or even corruption. Norway is a small country. The more important it is that it is as transparent as possible, that elected representatives may have the opportunity to be sentinels if there is abuse of power or camaraderie, that it can then have the opportunity to arrive in the open day, and that it can be discussed and thus prevented a next time. The report thus helps those of us who have a special control task but also those of the professional committees who are to exercise control in their fields. The same applies to individual representatives. The Committee agrees that the scope of the review should never be at the expense of other urgent tasks. Control must not be about detail but about errors of political significance or relevant to the interests of society. We are in agreement with that. However, I would like to point out that what is of political interest or is important for social interests will, in some cases, be assessed differently. So it might be that questions can be viewed as detailed questions by some, while others can see the questions from a power perspective. This could be done, for example, by: be such that some of the questions that were the precursors of the Lund Commission’s investigation were considered to be the kind of detailed questions. I agree with the rapporteur that control should not be justified or carried out from behind political tactics. Nor shall checks be carried out on the grounds of plaguing the Councils of State as far as possible. And I agree with Jørgen Kosmo, who said when he was head of the Control and Constitutional Committee: ‘The most important task of the Committee and of the European Parliament by exercising its control function is not, in and of itself, to exercise criticism but to try to lay the foundations for future premises.’ Then state councils may feel control as criticism, but that's another thing. I fully agree with the case rapporteur on what he said that everyone can do wrong, and that you also have to show perseverance if government councils make mistakes. But what's important is that government councils recognize mistakes that are being made and then adjust the course. An important part of the report is about the disclosure obligations of the Councils and the transparency of the Storting. The information provided by the Storting must be correct and comprehensive, and must form the basis on which the Storting does not take decisions on the wrong basis. The majority of the Committee will strengthen the transparency of the Grand Duchy, proposing that the Grand Duchy, based on majority decisions in plenary, should be able to require the transparency of any public document contained in the ownership of the Government and the administration, as stated. the rapporteur of the case. The SV, together with the Progress Party, proposes to provide greater transparency to the Storting and the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, proposing that documents which are kept secret for the sake of the security of the state or the personal relationships of individuals be provided with transparency if a majority of the representatives participating in the voting vote in favour. The same applies to internal working documents such as government notes. These notes are not the property of the Government but are drawn up by the government as the basis for political decisions. It may be relevant for Stortinget to gain insight into these, but – and I must stress this – there must be very serious reasons for it. We also propose that, for other documents covered by silence or internal documents, it should be sufficient for one third of the representatives to vote in favour. The same applies to the right of access for control purposes applicable to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, and I refer to the SV's and the Progress Party's proposal for a new Section 49a, second paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting. The ability of the Control and Constitutional Committee to control is now strengthened, with one third of the members of the Committee requiring hearings to be held on a case-by-case basis and cases to be opened by the same minority. This is a clear strengthening of minority rights. This is especially important if we get a majority government, and I fully share the views of the representative, Martin Engeset. SV will propose that a qualified minority of one third of the other committees have the same right to require consultation. So some words about the Riksrevision. The Committee shall examine draft laws, regulations and administrative provisions applicable to the National Audit Office for the autumn. We will then come back to extensive work, but it is important for us to establish an important principle in terms of the Riksaudition's right of access here and now. The controller shall determine what transparency is required. Or in another way: the person to be checked must not be able to determine what the examiner is to be able to control. Therefore, we do not want there to be any restrictions on which documents the Riksaudition should have access to. If the national audit is to be refused access to the documents deemed relevant by the Riksrevision to the audit to be carried out, it may weaken the position of the Riksrevision as control body. The national audit does not have an interest in the transparency of irrelevant documents, and in any case they will have the obligation of professional secrecy vis-à-vis the public. So a few words about investigation commissions. We believe it is good that we have a rule laid down for large-scale investigation commissions. SV agrees that there is a great deal to be done in order for the Storting to appoint investigating commissions. More importantly, the investigation commissions are provided with all the information necessary for them to do the job they are assigned to do – and in these days I am thinking in particular of the Mehamn Commission – and that they have access to absolutely all the information needed for the truth of the matter they are investigating. When does Size control work optimally? Yes, when the Riksrevision and the Civil Ombudsman operate, with open hearings and investigation commissions that work, but it is also essential that the press is given the possibility of transparency in processes, and that government councils and agencies understand and practice as much openness as possible. This is what characterizes democracy. It is important that we have transparency and opportunities for debate and mobilisation for important values. On behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Progressive Party, I address the proposals on which we stand together. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are some numbers missing in the proposals. It shall read ‘one-third’. It may well have been understood by those who have read the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e255	The representative of Ågot Valle has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e258	In order for our state order to be good and democratic, it is absolutely crucial that we have a system that ensures good use of resources and that prevents and possibly detects abuse of power. There may be rotten eggs in all the baskets, so all the government has to have someone to take care of. Most democracy is based on one form or another of the principle that power should be threefold: an exerciser, a dooming power, and a law-making and running power. The concept of ‘decision-making power’ used by the representative Hagen on the media’s Stortinget on 15 May, on the day of the presentation of the revised budget, does not exist in the Constitution or in the Norwegian state administration. All three powers make decisions in each of their areas. All these powers must be controlled in some way. The legislative power is a popular assembly, and it is thus ultimately controlled by the people, through elections. Media plays an important investigative role here, so that the voters know about it if the elected ones do something wrong. The control of the exercise of power, the government, is more demanding. The government in our system is indirectly elected, through the Storting, and that's why the Storting has to take on the task of controlling the Government. The size has been increasing its control activity for the last few years, and it is a sign of health. But we can also see the revitalized control operation of Stortinget as an effect of the fact that we have had minority governments for a long time. Thus, the opposition has multiples in the control committee, and it has been possible to develop the control function. Many have expressed a desire to get to multi-annual governments in the future. There could then be a risk that the Storting would weaken its control function, as the government party could have had a multiple to block the work of the control committee. This is the background to the proposals on minority rights in the Committee on Control, which the whole Committee has supported. From now on, a minority of one third of this special committee, in practice four out of ten representatives, shall be able to open a case, require a hearing, and indicate who will meet in the hearing. Thus, the control tool will not be prevented, even if it should become multiple controls. I must say that I have been something uncertain here. I am afraid that this new rule can lead to many unfounded hearings, trying to gain political gain on the hearings themselves, not on the conclusions. But if we were to get such an effect, I don't think it would be. I believe that both the press and most people will gradually perceive the verifications more in line with other hearings: information gathering for the committee's work, and not as a prosecution. The point that has undoubtedly created the greatest conflict in the work on this matter is the question of the scope of Stortinget's right of access to the government's internal documents. I would like to refer here to the Workers' Party's Commentary under item 5.4 on the Riksrevision, on page 24. Here the Labour Party states its members that it is not the task of the National Audit Office to investigate purely internal political processes. In addition, they say: ‘Documents such as government notes and government notes related to them are documents which should fall within the internal political sphere of a government and which should not be subject to external transparency.’ The Labour Party's representatives here express in a very precise way what is also the Christian People's Party's view when it concerns both the Riksaudition's right of access and the Stortinget's right of access. I therefore wonder a good part that the Labour Party does not follow what they say here, because «transparency from outside» must also include transparency from the Stortinget, as much as from the Riksrevisionen. For me, it's a self-evident thing that no one, nor the opposition to the Storting, will see the internal political assessments the government makes, whether it's about tactical discussions or the design of negotiating powers, or whatever it might be. This is, as I see it, as untimely as if the government party were to demand access to the files of the Workers' Party's group meeting or central board meeting. And we can't, we all understand that. In particular, I am afraid that the effect of this may be that the procedure will change from written to oral. That's what all the parties will lose. A majority have indicated that they will vote for a new section 49 a of Stortingen’s Rules of Procedure, which will provide rules on how the Stortinget should ask for access to its documents. This rule will contradict the Christian People's Party. Firstly, we are materially indifferent to the extent of transparency. However, it is equally important that we believe that this approach to the Rules of Procedure is an improper attempt to push through a certain interpretation of the Constitution – the representative Engeset also did the right thing on the side of this matter – where the interpretation is quite clearly controversial. This is going to be a string. They think that there is a need for clarification of the Constitution at this point, they get to walk the road to regular constitutional proposals. Let it also be quite clear: The Storting's Rules of Procedure are not legally binding on the government, nor is the government's instructions for the work of the government not binding on the Stortinget. The Rules of Procedure do not even have the same weight as a law, much less than the Constitution. Let me also remind you that in the administrations, especially in the departments and at the National Archives, there are many documents from previous governments, which the sitting government after long and firm practice does not have access to. In the archives of all departments there are notes with political endorsements by former government councils and secretaries, including the government. draft R-notes and their hand notes. At the National Archives, which is formally part of the administration, are all R-notes from previous governments, documents to which the Prime Minister of the outgoing government determines access. This is a document that is not accessible to the sitting government after today's practical, wise and well-informed system. Of course, I believe that the majority did not mean that Storting should be able to require a government to supply documents that it does not have access to itself. The legal effect of the new section 49(a) will thus only apply to the way the Storting arranges its wishes and requirements for transparency, not how the government should respond to the requirements. So I don't want to assume that any government, whatever the batch, will follow access requirements in a different way now than before. A government is required by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e303	The decision of the Control and Constitutional Committee on the control functions is a major and very important matter for the Stortinget’s work. I would like to comment on a few points in the configuration. First, a little bit about the ordinary committee hearings. In addition to the ordinary questionnaires, the Stortinget Committees are its main tool in obtaining oral explanations from government councils or others. So far, a number in each committee have decided whether to keep track of each other. The centre party is occupied by minority rights in the matter of whether a committee should have hearings or not. We realize that the need for minority rights is clearer in control matters than otherwise, especially in controversial control cases. The control committee is both formally and effectively in a special position, compared to the other committees. But we also believe that there is strong concern that other committees should also be able to carry out hearings at the request of one third of the members. We will therefore support the minority's proposal on this. I have to say that I do not share the fear of the previous speaker that there is a political gain that is, in fact, the most important driving force in asking for hearings in the committee. Furthermore, there is a number in Stortinget that can introduce such a scheme, and a majority in Stortinget can abolish such a scheme. So the fear that the previous speaker said, I don't share it at this point. Another important theme in this setting is the transparency of Size. From Grundlova § 75 f. to the effect that the Storting is entitled to require, as it is called, the transparency of all public documents to be handled here. In practice, transparency works by obtaining the necessary documents from the government and, otherwise, by providing additional documents for questions from committees or individual representatives. The Central Party supports the majority in the Committee that, according to Grundlova § 75 f, the Stortinget may require the transparency of all public documents of government or administration. However, I would add that there is a long tradition that the Storting does not in practice ask for documents relating to internal discussions at purely political level in the College of Government, so-called R-note. In a few cases, just enough large-scale investigation commissions have asked for R-notes to be provided on a voluntary basis, but in practice the Stortinget has not formally or informally requested access to such documents. According to the view of the Center Party, it's a very good practice. The Central Party supports the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee to ensure that the right of access granted by the Stortinget is clarified by means of a new paragraph of its Rules of Procedure. But we're also here busy taking care of minority dishes. So we're going to vote for the minority's proposal for a new section 49 a second paragraph. The Central Party supports the Committee in that it must be able to impose requirements on the information provided by the Government. Since it is the government that is preparing and submitting most of the cases to the Grand Duchy, and the government also has the right to consult the public distribution system, it is natural to demand that the government provide a defence basis for decision. In my view, the government should therefore be required to notify Stortinget of all the information necessary for the handling of the cases submitted. The information shall be correct and covering. The Court of Justice is an important topic in the debate on the control function of the Stortinget. The central party believes that it is natural to assess the national legal system we have today. Compared to very many European countries, Norway has a very politicised national legal system. It's natural that this is just being evaluated in a new system. But it's a long step from the system we have today, to what some people say, to leave these cases entirely to the ordinary judiciary. I have noticed that the majority in the Committee have come to the conclusion that different alternatives to national law should be extended, and that this majority asks the Presidency to set up a selection with such a mandate. We support this in the Central Party. Finally, a few words about the Riksrevision. The Centre Party may mainly agree with the contents of the plural submissions of the Committee, both where there is a single committee and where there are a number of comments within the Committee. Otherwise, we are waiting for a more comprehensive debate on the Riksrevision of the Stortinget to debate new laws and instructions for the Riksrevision. Before I finish my post, since we do not have a member of the Control and Constitution Committee, I will briefly make an explanation of vote: the centre party will vote for the vote and the minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e326	Those of us who weren't members of the Frøiland Committee, would have liked to be flies on the wall there. It has been a long time since Stortinget has discussed its control function on a general basis, not just in a complex and divided way. It may not be so strange, all the time very few politicians in this house have had clear principles and foundations on why government and administration should be controlled, and not least on how to control government and administration. It's probably part of the units that I'm standing there blaming the agent Carl I. Hagen. It's a shame he's not here. But for the past 30 years, he has belonged to one of the very few exceptions that have confirmed the rule, by having clear thoughts about how to develop and streamline the control function of the Storting. I hope, of course, that this principle position is not based on where you have been working for nearly 30 years, and that the representative Hagen appreciates the development equally if one day he sits on the other side of the table. This must also be the starting point for our debate. Although the opposition and representatives of government parties may in the meantime have alternate agendas on controversial issues, one agenda must be equal: the objectives of control must be met, namely that we ensure the efficient use of public resources, ensure that decisions and assumptions of the Storting are fulfilled, that people can be confident that negative management conditions are revealed and remedied, etc. Control is a core task, which the Storting has the very best prerequisites for doing, unlike the principle of the opposite, the big business and the leading instruction, which the representative Engeset was also involved in his post. Parliamentarism does not presuppose that the main task of opposition parties is to bind pigs to a government from all sides in advance, or to use the control institute afterwards, in order to make life most possible for a Council of State. Nor should the control function be used to cover non-government. But when it comes to this point, it's probably not exactly that all of the batches have completely pure flour in the bag. It depends on where you've been sitting. Moreover, it is not always entirely possible to distinguish between responsibility control, management control and policy initiatives, although the different principles of principle are quite clear. The introduction of minority rights for a qualified minority in the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee imposes even greater fine-tuning requirements on the exercise of the right of initiative. As the representative, Mr Engeset, said in his statement, the Right’s support for the right of initiative of one third of the members of the Supervisory Committee does not justify the fact that the control activities are not sufficiently comprehensive today. I find reason to go a little closer to this. When we introduce such a minority right, I think it is a fundamentally over-mature reform, which in many ways must be said to be preventative if you, for example. assumes that a majority government has been established. Until now, the minority has not had formal minority rights, which has been a flaw in our management system. In the election between an overly hostile opposition on the one hand, and a power-provoking and closed majority rule on the top of the state bureaucracy on the other, I choose the first as the least one, if any, from the point of view of control. Having said that, I would like to address a point of more administrative variety, but which in the meantime may affect the quality of the control work that we are doing. The representative Engeset is quite right that the control work is extensive enough. At my discretion, it is comprehensive enough in quantity, but not always comprehensive enough in quality. The shift between an increasingly large, more complex and diverse administrative apparatus with increasing scope of individual decisions and decisions on its part, compared to the real possibility of the Stortinge to deal with control cases on its own, is quite large and in disfavor of the Stortinge. The size does not necessarily have its auxiliary organs in the form of e.g.: The National Audit, which we're now opening to be more able to instruct. However, there are both prima facie and practical reasons for the transmission of the Riksrevisionen. We fully support the remarks made in the statement that a major administrative apparatus with professional weights linked directly to the control committee. It's e.g. a prerequisite for us to be able to do more than want good Christmas and good new year when we, for example. regularly states that we would like to look at the design of regulations and the practice of these regulations. The greater possibility of proceeding even before we may open up a case on a formal basis, may well also help to prevent us from falling into matters such as the purest Narvestad-fixer-all-possible committee and abetting the roles that other agencies have or should have. All parties are thus served by giving the Committee greater opportunity not to shout wolf wolves, as we have seen in part in recent years. It is not only out of contempt that I think there should be some respect for the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, but also because the Storting should be taken seriously as such. So to the question of transparency. The case rapporteur, Jørgen Kosmo, was involved in his opening statement. You should avoid reading things that are not in our notes. I have full respect for the fact that the majority and the rapporteur believe that the right of access by the Storting to exceptional control cases is not subject to any restrictions whatsoever. I'm not going to polemize against the material content of this vision either. Our remarks show that there are conflicting views on the extent to which the right of access of the Storting is extended, and that there would have been an unconditional advantage if the debate were taken in connection with a concrete constitutional proposal on a subject that is now so controversial. Nor do I deny the majority's right to believe that this interpretation of the Basic Law is the correct one. Politically, it is entirely acceptable to mean both. Nor do we take a position in our remarks on what is the correct legal content of the Constitution § 75 f. Christian People's Party has so far clarified it politically, but we have not dealt with this formally. With regard to the issue of the right of access to the Court of Auditors, I think that the majority comment on the right of access and the proposal for a new paragraph in the Rules of Procedure is quite clarifying. I'm a little bit unsure whether it's intentional about the relationships that you have here from the Workers' Party. In reality, the majority comment and the proposal for a new paragraph of the Rules of Procedure mean that the Stortinget now departs from the letters of the Prime Minister's office by the Government of Stoltenberg on 30 April 2001, which reads: ‘The activities of the Court of Auditors should therefore remain within the limits set by the Storting itself for its control of the Government and its administration.’ In addition, it says: ‘The right of the Grand Duchy to have access to the internal documents of the Government and the departments according to parliamentary practices relating to the Constitution § 75(f) is limited.’ Consequently, when the majority admits that the Storting should be fully transparent here today, the framework for the Court of Auditors' right of access to such a view must be moved accordingly. In this context, the comments of the Workers' Party become relatively special. Well, there are two different issues in law and in principle, but I have major problems finding the logical link between the majority comment on the right of access to the Grand Duchy, which means a distance from the letter of the Prime Minister's office on 30 April 2001, and the comments on the concept of a document under the point of the Riksrevision. In addition to this, in connection with the recording of the State budget last year, the Stortinge stated that a prerequisite for speaking about transparency practices is that there is a formal and written requirement for transparency and, where appropriate, formal written refusal of transparency. More detailed provisions on the Riksrevisionen are first addressed until the autumn, but it is a useful clarification here today that the issue of transparency becomes only a political issue, where, respectively, the interpretation of the Basic Law § 75 f and its framework and the formal practice of refusal of the Riksrevisionen is not documented. For the autumn, we are given the opportunity to decide on the scope of transparency on the usual political basis. The Progress Party and SV have already taken a clear position on the legal text, with the Workers' Party being indirectly misguided on the opposite side, if you read it in a context. In view of the fact that we are going to have a proper and regular legal process on this issue, the Right raised the issue of the Court's right of access to the Court of Auditors. Therefore, I do not see it as natural to express myself on behalf of our big group, but since different majority with different comments and proposals for decisions have now in total limited the question of the right of access of the Riksaudition to a question of choosing on a principle and political basis between the Riksaudition's proposal for wording and the wording of the previous Stoltenberg government, it has made the situation somewhat clearer when our big group is going to decide on the issue this autumn. Otherwise, I would just like to finish by repeating what I have already said about the rapporteur's work. It has been a well done and very impressive job. It has not been easy, probably, but there is a great deal of respect for the job done by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e366	In front of the Innst. S. No 210 there is considerable preparatory work in the Committee, and not least from the Frøiland Committee. The mandate is comprehensive, but the main challenge is to assess the control function of the Grand Duchy, including the nature of the control to be exercised by the Grand Duchy and the purpose of the control exercised. What, then, is the purpose of the control exercised — the purpose of the control shall be to keep the members of the Government responsible for errors, or is the aim of the control to improve management? Furthermore, the issue of government disclosure to the Grand Duchy has been discussed in depth, including the division of responsibilities between the Government and the work of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the position of the National Audit Office and not least issues related to the current provision of national law — in other words, a very extensive work was undertaken by the Frøiland Committee. Not all questions can be answered in a short article. This means that I just want to draw attention to the right of access and the issue of national law. Let it be clear: All party representatives and other sample members of the Frøiland Committee, and now of the Control and Constitution Committee, believe that there should be full transparency of government and other bodies on the part of the Storting. What the Christian People's Party together with the Right questions is the extent to which the Constitution § 75 f gives the Stortinget the right of access to the government's and government's internal documents. We believe that there is clear parliamentary and constitutional practice so that the Storting cannot require any written notes and other documents drawn up for use in connection with the government's internal discussions. Parliamentary practice also clearly demonstrates that the Stortinge has shown restraint in asking for transparency in the administration’s internal case documents. We believe that this is the basis for criticising the idea of resolving this issue through a change in Storting's Rules of Procedure. From this point of view, it must be pointed out that any new wording in the Storting Rules of Procedure does not clarify how the Basic Law is to be understood. We believe that the work of the Storting is regulated by the Rules of Procedure, and as such it cannot be constitutionally binding on the Government or as an interpretation of the Constitution. There is also reason to be surprised that the majority now, through the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, signals that internal documents from the government and the administration should be subject to transparency without any clear constraints being expressed. Access to documents from previous governments may also be open. Today’s practice is that transparency of internal documents from a former government is determined by the former prime minister. I'm assuming that it's not going to change this practice. I would also assume that if internal handnotes for use in the government's internal discussions are to be released, the form of work within a government will change with respect to procedures, for example. more oral forms, thereby weakening the background documentation of individual cases. So briefly a few words about issues related to national law. I disagree with the majority, which concludes that national law as it stands today should be liquidated and replaced by another court. The Christian People's Party and the Right do not see the need today to conclude that today's system of national law should be liquidated or amended. During the selection process, I made it clear that it is unreasonable that these types of questions should be addressed to the ordinary prosecution authorities, which could lead to a more frequent appeal against members of the government – even more or less well-founded, in the worst case, as part of a political game. I am therefore pleased that a clear majority now wants questions relating to national law to be further addressed – this because issues related to national law need to be firmly anchored in any constitutional change. The threat of national law must not be devalued as part of the daily debate of the Storting, but reserved for cases where gross adultery is likely to occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e392	The representative André Dahl expressed a desire to have been able to fly on the wall during the work of the Frøiland Committee. At least there was no job for diurnal flies, because it was a very long, very extensive and very demanding job. Let me add a little note to the way the process has been organized until the setting we are dealing with today. On the basis of experience as a member of the Frøiland Committee, I strongly doubt whether it is an optimal approach in the future to investigate a comprehensive and difficult case complex, to appoint a mixed commission, which, for the majority of members, is composed in the way that we usually do in this house when we reduce selection, that is. that the party groups propose members and, for the other part, consist of persons collected on a free basis on the basis of a specific form of expertise, possibly as a representative of an institution concerned — in this case the Riksrevision in concrete terms. I strongly doubt whether such a composition of an investigative commission is appropriate. I think it would be useful in the future to distinguish significantly between what is a task of expertise, where experts are sought from the expertise that exists in the Kingdom and what is a political task. Hardly any of these dimensions, the political or the special competence, serve to mix them together and, where appropriate, to express them through majority recommendations, recommendations, in such a mixed Commission. So some comments on the issue of national law. In my opinion, it is gratifying that the majority of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has come to the conclusion that there is no reason to endorse any of the proposals that have been promoted in the position of the Frøiland Committee. First of all, it has to be right that you don't first decide to remove an institute that the Constitution contains, but you don't know in advance what you want to put instead. That is a slightly reassuring procedure. Secondly, I believe that most of the arguments put forward in the public debate and also in the position of the Frøiland Committee against national law are very small arguments. It was said by the case-rapporteur that the national court is not functioning properly. That's right. It has been the case all along, and it was probably the intention of those who created the Constitution that it should be. The idea was not that the national court should be so to speak part of the daily toolbox of political life. It was intended to be a safety valve, which, in exceptional cases, may be put into service. The fact that the national law has not been in force for about a year. 80 years, in my opinion, is also no argument against national law as defined by the Constitution. There might be a lot of reasons why it's been like this. The most nearby is likely that the Storting has assessed it in such a way that there have been no cases during that period that justify the triggering of the mechanism of national law. There is also no argument against national law that it is a political court — because that is the very point of it not dealing with general civil crimes, but it is a matter of violations resulting from the holding and abuse of certain duties. The general question should be: is the problem in today's Norwegian political reality that we have too little legalization of political conflicts? At my discretion, that's the opposite of it. We have had a drift towards far too extensive legalisation, or pseudo-justification, of what are really political conflicts. And it's not in the interests of political life, because it creates an increasing risk of a mix of legal reasoning and political reasoning. As I said, I consider it a step forward that the majority of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has come to the conclusion that there is a need for much more thorough investigation here before any decision has to be made to amend the Constitution on this point. I have no difficulty in agreeing to that proposal, but then under the explicit condition that no conclusion of such an investigation is being reached in the form of an explicit or unspoken premise to abolish the national court in its present form. In my opinion, national law in its present form must be one of the mechanisms for such an investigation to be assessed on a totally free basis, with positive and negative aspects, as an equivalent alternative to the possible new arrangements that such an investigation would be able to produce. On the issue of access to documents by the Riksrevision and the Riksrevision, I would just like to say that, given that the proposal for a new law on the Riksrevision is on the way to the Stortinget and is to be dealt with in the Stortinget, I consider it appropriate that the debate be held until it has the necessary basis. To hold a preliminary debate on the issues that will arise in full scope, and with full freedom for the Stortinget to decide when to deal with the legislative proposal on this matter, I consider it to be of little use. So a few words about the Basic Law § 75 f. It surprises me that the majority has relied on the model that you have made, when you choose to apply the Stortinge Rules of Procedure as a kind of interpretative instrument of the Basic Law, or rather the constitutional practice. If it were to be a general procedure, I think it would be very little appropriate, and at least it wouldn't be useful if it were something you're looking for, is to clarify difficult interpretation issues with regard to the Basic Law, or with regard to what our constitutional customary law really is. The Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy regulate nothing but the Internal Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy. The Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy do not regulate the work of the Government. Nor does it regulate Norwegian individual citizens’ rights under Norwegian law, even if they are wholesale representatives. That is why I find it very difficult to see that the proposal that the majority has drafted here as a new paragraph in the Storting Rules of Procedure creates greater clarity. At my discretion, it creates greater ambiguity in an area that is difficult to travel in. If there is a majority in the Grand Duchy that believes that the Constitution needs to be changed in order to mark the transparency of the Grand Duchy more clearly and comprehensively than has been the general practice up to now, then there is one way to do so, namely to change the Constitution, thus bringing together the two-thirds majority required in this Chamber to make that change. If you mean to change the legal status of general legislation, for example: the nature of the issue of the Public Service Act, and it is necessary to amend the general legislation. Nor can any new legal status be introduced in this area by means of amendments to the Storting Rules of Procedure. In passing, I note that the proposal for a new section 49(a) of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure also introduces a hitherto unknown concept, as far as I am aware, in Norwegian legislation, namely the concept of ‘freedom of residence’. I know the term "right of speech," and I know the term "obligation". But the concept of "freedom" I have not encountered before, and I am not sure that it is for the sake of clarity to introduce such a concept. So a few words at last about the problem that several speakers have been dealing with, among other things. The representatives of Aukan and Holten, namely the creation of significant difficulties in interpreting the majority here want to instigate as a new practice in the relationship between the government, the trade union council, and the outgoing governments, and the underlying administration, at all times. There has been a constant tradition, as has been pointed out, that new governments, and this will be especially relevant if we have to assume that, in the future too, there may be relatively frequent government shifts, do not interfere with the previous government's internal life and what had to be archived by internal documents from previous governments. It is quite unclear to me whether the proposal for a new Rules of Procedure on this point and the proposal for an interpretation of transparency are such that the majority here believes to institute a new practice and believes to change what has been a unique practice by all Norwegian governments until today. What is said about the administration in an unspecified form in the design of the new paragraph of the Rules of Procedure, I suppose I have to be meant to apply only to the central administration, that is to say to the departments. For it will not, as far as I can understand, be a legal basis in Norwegian law for a government or a government council to be required by the Stortinget to instruct the underlying administrative bodies to deliver documents. In conclusion, I believe that the proposal for a new paragraph 49(a) of the Rules of Procedure is a step backwards and not a step forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e431	First, a brief explanation: The representative André Dahl asked me in the hall at the beginning of his post, where he also came up with what he well called shames too long interest from my side in control questions. I heard the post, although I was not physically present in the hall. First, some principal aspects of Storting's control function. I think we have to face up to the fact that the power accumulated in central government has grown quite dramatically in Norwegian society as well. There have been more and more laws, more and more regulations and more rules. People depend on permits, permits, appropriations and exemptions from legislation. Much depends on financial assistance, support, assistance and public intervention. As there is a growing power in central government, the need for control of central government is growing accordingly. I think we all agree that we need to have a – this English term – check and balance: if power increases, the control activity needs to be increased accordingly in order to prevent abuse of power as much as possible. A high degree of power with few control bodies can lead to a temptation for too many to abuse power. It's clear that exercising power is something that many seem interesting, it's kind of satisfaction, and if you see that you can direct and control other people without anything happening, the danger is present. Therefore, this principle that there must be a ‘check and balance’ of exceptional importance. So, in the light of the powers of central government and partial local government, it is at least our view that we elected people have to make sure that it is an active and well-systematized, well-worked control, which is supposed to work primarily preventively. There are some people who sometimes talk about the Storting becoming some control friars, and that we are very concerned about individual matters. You might sometimes think so. I would like to stress that it is the preventive effect of the control measures carried out by the Stortinget and the Three Special Bodies of the Storing, which are at all times the most important – that the administration and to the extent that the government apparatus should know that there are people who look at one in the cards, and that the possibility of being taken if you abuse power is great, that is, the very general one that also applies to all our criminal law laws. It is the preventive effect that must be important. I am pleased that, in my opinion, the position of the Frøiland Committee will be consistent with this principle, namely that if the proposals are implemented, it will strengthen the control function in relation to the executive of the Storting. It will increase control activity, possibilities and thus have the necessary preventive effect in central government. This is for us the crucial principle starting point for why control is important. One of the most important principles in exercising control is that information is required. I feel that the Storting's demand for information is also improved by some of the clarifications that have come through the selection setting, and also by some of the decisions that the Storing will take, even though there are minority views. I think that the right of appeal under the Basic Law § 75 h is clarifying the possibility that the Storting has to summon people to ask questions. The same is true of the Hearing Officer, who is being strengthened and who is an important way of obtaining information. In this way, the amendment to Section 21 of the Rules of Procedure on minority rights is of very, very important importance. It is clear that as well as more and more people talk about the need for majority governments, there is a lack of predictability and consistent governance with minority governments – and that is what we read in the newspapers daily – one must expect that at some point, if not during this period, then perhaps after the 2005 elections, a majority government can come. It is important that minority rights are now introduced so that one third of the Committee can adopt consultations, so that there are minority rights that we have not had before. Because, at the moment when a majority government is not exactly in favour of control activities, many of the control activities of Stortinget will be blocked by the majority parties if one third do not have minority rights. I don't think we've been good enough in Stortingen to distinguish between our constitutional control function and whether his party is in government. This has been the case, and I think it applies to both this government – and the government parties – and the previous one, that you get into the defence position a little too quickly. When someone from an opposition party calls for some letter or travel a control case, then you are suddenly in the defensive position of your government. After having gained experience from some travels, there is at least a greater tendency in Denmark to forget in the control functions that you are also a member of the government party or government parties. I think that here in Norway we have a way of dealing with specific control issues when it comes to trying not to be in the defensive position of the parties that have the government power. It weakens the control work itself. But it is now improved by introducing minority rights for one third. I also think there is a clarification regarding the right of access under the Basic Law § 75 f, and the provision that comes is clarifying. I think that the selection's setting has also had good comments on the government's obligation to provide information, the proposals that also exist in the case of national law, in terms of getting the information obligation into the ordinary law – I get back to it. The Committee has not addressed the role of the EOS Committee or the Civil Ombudsman, but perhaps the very important role of the National Audit Office and the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. The role of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee is thus strengthened by the proposals currently in place, and there is also a minority of one-third who may require hearings and who may raise cases. It's one of the most important things. After some years in the Control and Constitutional Committee, I know that from time to time there has been a third who wants to raise a case, but not a majority, and then there has not been a case. As of today's decision, it becomes automatic, so that at the next meeting of the Committee you will have new rules of play, as far as I have understood, of one third, which directly intervenes in several of the matters under consideration in the Committee. It is very positive that it is lowered from majority to one-third. That does not mean, of course, that you should not be held back from dealing with cases in the event of an exorcism. You shouldn't do that, but when you feel a great need to raise a case, it'll be easier to do it, and it'll also be easier to hold hearings. As far as the Riksrevision is concerned, part of the debate that took place once later in the autumn — that is, the right of access. I noticed that Inge Wohnning meant that we were not going to discuss it today, because you should not have a position. The representative in the sample has now taken a stand, and I have also taken a stand in the sample. My position is the same in the storeroom as it was in the sample, and I am at least satisfied that, with regard to the right of access to the Riksrevision, the majority of the Frøiland Committee has supported the Riksrevision's own proposal for Section 4 of the Riksrevision Act. Of course, we will come back to the harvest when there is a clarification of the legal issues and we are told that there is still a significant disagreement in the Stortinget or not. We've had this debate three times, and a clear minority has established for me a complete principle of course, that if there's doubt about the controller and the controller, it must be the controller who decides what you need to understand. As I mentioned in the previous debate we had on the same topic, after Enron and other companies, and also after discussion in Norway about the relationship between companies and auditors, the Norwegian size should not be such that it is the person who can reject the auditor, i.e. the auditor's wishes and transparency requirements. It will be completely incomprehensible, and I will once again present to you the parties that so far have not decided what to think, the totally unsustainable thing about the Norwegian people being given the impression that you let the government decide for itself what the Riksrevision is to be given access to documents. Some people have tried to mix this with the principle of disclosure – if the Riksaudition were to ask for some documents and get it, it means the same as publication. It doesn't. This is the national audit's own need and must have the full opportunity to request information which is not intended for the public. That's the principle attitude. It is the Riksaudition that shall have full power of decision as to the documents it needs. The sample has also addressed the issue of the management of the National Audit Office. In the Progress Party, we have come to the same thing as the majority of the sample has done, namely that after the National Auditor – who heads the National Auditor, Bjarne Mørk Eidem – leaves, we should move on to a governance model and a permanent national auditor on the basis of the pattern of what is in Denmark. We believe that in the long run will be a more tidy and proper arrangement. It has nothing to do with how the Riksrevision has worked, to do, but we have come to this because there is a new time, with the need for real independence, and any suspicion of any party thinking and party management of the people of the Riksrevision should be removed. I note that the current government has come to some of the same points of view with regard to the composition of the Board of Governors of the Bank of Norway, which I stood alone about when we made that law in 1985, and also with the National Auditor Bjarne Dark Eidem as the case rapporteur. I understand that the sitting government has now come to the conclusion that maybe one should go in the direction we addressed alone at the time, and therefore I don't understand why the same parties can't make the same assessment of the Riksrevision. In the case of permanent management, it is also necessary to discuss the composition of a college or board. I am also pleased that we are now getting into the Rules of Procedure a paragraph on committees of inquiry. I have been involved in appointing some investigation commissions in Stortinget, and almost every time we have somehow had to reinvent the wheel, how the procedure should be to appoint a review commission. Now that we have a paragraph, the implementation and principles underlying the establishment of investigation commissions will be defined, in cases where the Storting believes that it should be done by the Storing itself, as opposed to the ordinary one, which of course will be the government apparatus. It'll be the normal thing. But there are situations where the Storing should also do so for different reasons. Then to the national court. As I said in the debate on the constitutional amendments on Monday, we are on what the majority of the sample has come up with, namely that the national court should essentially enter the ordinary court, and that the Constitution should be amended, but that an application for an appeal to state councils and others should come from the Grand Duchy. It is not the case that any person can report a breach of the obligation to provide information or any other matter to the Council of State. That is not what is contained in the proposal for the provision of Section 126 of the Criminal Code. There should be a slightly different view here of majority and minority, either a majority of the Biggest or a third of the Biggest. On the basis of what I said about majority governments, I insist that there should be a third of the Grand Duchy that should be able to request, and when an investigation is requested, the ordinary prosecution authority enters into the picture. There will be a possible way to do that, and at least I will make sure that the necessary constitutional amendments to get this dealt with in the next big deal are submitted in time. The majority want to postpone this. You just have to take note of that. I did not want to hear the statements made by the rapporteur, unfortunately, but if that was not clearly stated, I assume that possibly the President-in-Office of the Council, Jørgen Kosmo, can confirm that this investigation that the majority wants to take place in order to look at various forms of change in the national law, will be initiated very quickly, and that the objective must be that the outcome of the investigation, probably with various amendments to the constitution, must be completed, and that someone will ensure that they are adopted for adoption in the next major session, i.e. within the time limit of this collapse. That must be the objective, so that we can get a real deal of different constitutional proposals on different forms to replace the national law, and that it will be dealt with in the next big step after the next elections. Overall, we believe that the work on the control system towards central government will be strengthened by what is adopted today, and we hope and believe that when we deal with the law on national audit in the autumn, any doubt will be overcome, by the fact that it is the Riksrevision that has the decisive word if there is a disagreement between the Riksrevision and a Council of State or the administration with regard to the right of access. We hope that, in the next period, we will have a system of charges that will eliminate the great difference between possible criminal reactions in the event of serious errors committed by government councils or magnificence representatives and other professional groups in that country. Serious errors — and breaches of law — by representatives and state councils should, even after they have left, also result in criminal liability, of course based on normal judicial procedures, based on the content of the cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e465	I have followed the debate with interest and would also like to be among those who commend the rapporteur. The work of the Committee cannot be mentioned for natural reasons, but the presentation was very balanced and comprehensive. I just want to stay a little bit at what the representative Kosmo said about the request decision. With experience both from this house and now from a shorter period of time as the Council of State, I think there is reason to stress just what Kosmo had in mind: Request decisions that do not include investigations can often lead to the Storting contradicting itself in many ways. On repeated occasions during the 1980s and 1990s, the size has been concerned that projects under state control should not be suspended due to large exceedances, due to poor preparation, etc. We have had several examples of major construction projects and data projects that have led to major scandalous headlines – and at most justified, for that matter. The previous government introduced an additional quality assurance system for major projects, which I consider to be very sensible, and which we naturally follow up. It is sometimes a problem that requests decisions can ignore just such requirements for the preparation of cases. There may be a desire to get things over quickly, but the result is that we, as politicians, are judged. If, for example, the result is that large exceedances occur, the general reputation of politicians is of course weakened. I also have a small comment on the Chairman of the Committee, as mentioned in the government notes, which she felt should be available in some cases because it has been drawn up by officials. To that I must say that no, they are not. It's a note from the Council of State. And if I'm going to be allowed to hit a practical experience, I'll say that we write it ourselves often, and at least we're responsible for it. It is not useful to push officials in front of them. It is the note of each State Council, which, of course, contains political assessments and, preferably, proposals for conclusions. In particular, Section 75(f) of the Basic Act on the right of access and the subsequent amendment of Section 49(a) of the Rules of Procedure, which has been mentioned in the debate. In my view, our constitutional and parliamentary practices well balance the needs of the government in order to be able to make confidential political balances and the needs of the Grand Duchy for information. There is little historical evidence that the Storting has not been able to exercise its control due to a lack of transparency in internal documents. Nor has the majority recently used the provisions of the Basic Law § 75 f to take plenary decisions on the delivery of documents. There are also obvious differences in professional views about the interpretation of the Basic Law § 75 f and the extent to which it allows the Stortinget to require transparency of the government's internal documents. However, the government has noted that the majority strongly states that the competence to require documents provided should only be used ‘in exceptional cases’. When the majority now proposes a separate provision in the Storting Rules of Procedure which clarifies the right of access to documents by the Storting, I assume that there is no intention to change constitutional and parliamentary practices. The rules have been respected by all parties that have been in government — they have been such that a new political leadership in a department has not asked for access to the internal documents of former political management. There is a practice today that requires me, as Minister of Finance, of course, not to have insight into political considerations that were ahead of me, for example, to present government budgets under a former Council of State. I think that is a good practice. To add: It also ensures that historians are given real transparency if, and – we get to say – when, the documents are once released, because then there are real inscriptions and not inscriptions of the type ‘refers to conversation’ or similar things, which can in many ways allow for a more oral procedure. Once a government has then left, there is a long-standing practice for the full collection of government notes, agendas, protocols and records to be delivered to the National Archives for Conservation. The outgoing Prime Minister makes a deposit declaration that regulates the transparency of the outgoing government notes. This — i.e. the Prime Minister — establishes a binding period before the documents can be released. Thus, access before that time requires the consent of the outgoing Prime Minister or the leader or leaders of the parties from which the government originated. It must be borne in mind that the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure are not intended to entail a change in this practice. One consequence of this is that any requests from the Storting for the transparency of government notes to former governments must be addressed to the former Prime Minister or the head of the parties from which the government originated. Requests by individual representatives for access to other internal documents which give political considerations to former members of the government must be submitted to the person responsible for the government during the period in question and not determined by subsequent members of the government. It must also be assumed that the proposed provision of the Storting Rules of Procedure on the transparency of government and administrative documents by individual representatives is intended to cover only the departments' documents. The word ‘management’, such as: is used in the Public Procurement Act, it also includes underlying directorates, county councils and municipalities. However, it would not be appropriate for government members to decide on the delivery of such documents – i.e. in the Directorates – and neither does the government have the right to instruct county councils or municipalities to deliver documents to individual representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e486	First, I have to say that I agree with the representative's salary when he says that it might not be so wise to have representatives directly involved in the follow-up to the decisions of the Stortinge, in commissions that are to investigate what is to be the future of the Stortinge. I don't think of big business representatives, I think of representatives from the different institutions. I think we should think about this later – not that I see that some of the things in the document necessarily need to focus on some issues. Then it is that when problems arise, in particular about constitutional practice/constitutional practice, it requires an answer. You can't say that we don't want to decide. That is what has happened in the context of transparency. The problem has arisen, and it requires an answer. The position of the Frøiland Committee is quite clear on the interpretation of the Basic Law § 75 f. And the majority attitudes and the comments of the majority of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs to that interpretation make it clear that it is also the opinion of the majority of the population. But we say quite clearly that this is not new, so the letter of the Constitution has been understood. However, the current majority of the Grand Duchy is to establish a regulatory framework in the Grand Duchy’s Rules of Procedure for the implementation of requests for such transparency. It is far from being a question of trying to introduce some paragraphs into the Rules of Procedure which are intended to interpret the Constitution. It must be a misunderstanding. That interpretation is clear. If another enlargement is to have a different view, it does not matter what the Rules of Procedure say. Otherwise, I have to say that the Basic Law only contains paragraphs – mostly – which are interpreted in relation to custom. However, what I find regrettable in that regard is that a majority in this house has not been willing to set up a commission to review this, so that a foundation law adapted to current practice was established. But there is absolutely conservatism. With regard to the issue of relations with former government councils and previous governments with regard to government notes, the proposal for a new paragraph of the Storting Rules of Procedure states: «The request may relate to any document held by the government or the underlying management». This does not apply to previous government notes. There is a need to follow the practices and procedures already laid down. Then I have to say that this is making a difficult debate about something that probably will never happen, unless the majority of the Storting feel that there is legitimate suspicion that there are serious errors made by a government council that should lead to further persecution, for example. through national law. This is why we are talking about a completely different dimension of Stortingen's access to transparency than the right of the Riksaudition to have as part of the control of administration. We must not compare the Riksrevision and the Stortinget and the decisions taken by the Storting in plenary. It's going to be completely wrong. As I said, when the question is first raised, I would say that it would be quite unlikely that the plenary part-session should not be able to require the majority decision to have access to the documents that you think are necessary in order to have the right procedure. This is probably never going to happen, but should it happen, it is important to avoid having a procedural debate on how this should happen, that in the Storting Rules of Procedure we have provisions on the procedure for this. So just very briefly to the question from the representative Hagen about the necessary proposals for amendments to the Constitution on national law issues. Of course – and I was concerned with it in my first post – it is up to the Presidency to take the initiative to set up such a selection with such a mandate that we can have on the table the proposals that are necessary for us to be able to make changes to the Constitution. The Presidency will then have to discuss the extent of that mandate. I have to say that the experience we have in changing the Constitution, that we lack some elements and therefore have to reject proposals, makes it important, as the representative of the Wage said, that this investigation will have as far a mandate as possible, and that we have the opportunity to promote and develop a number of alternative proposals on how to deal with this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e506	Let me start there where the case rapporteur concluded his statement. I am very pleased with the clarification that the rapporteur has now given of the investigative task regarding the issue of national law. I understood it there that he fully shares my view, that the mandate should not give specific guidance, but should leave it to those who are asked to carry out the assessment to provide imaginable alternatives. It must be possible to implicitly conclude that the alternatives promoted by the Frøiland Committee will not have sufficient support in the Storting since they have not received sufficient support from the Control and Constitutional Committee and that the intention is then to invite other alternatives. But the most important thing, from my point of view, must be that there has been no pre-emption on the question of whether the Constitution should be amended at all. For the current national law, one way is to take care of the considerations that those who created the Constitution felt had to be taken into account in the constitution with regard to the responsibility of elected and government members; and one has to weigh for and against this way of doing so, against the alternative ways of doing the same. In parentheses, I assume that there was a slight delay from the representative Carl I. Hagen when he used the wording in his statement that it is difficult to understand that the same liability rules should not apply to government councils and government representatives as to other professional groups. I hope for the longest time that the representative Hagen does not regard the job as a wholesaler as a profession. The rapporteur said that the Basic Law § 75 f has always been such an understanding. Yeah, that's possible, that's possible. But the Frøiland Committee's attitude, of course, demonstrates, even in a very detailed way, that there have been, and are, different perceptions of, among our state law teachers. Thus, there is no clear interpretation tradition of the Basic Law § 75 f. It is, of course, correct, as stated in the decision of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, that it is not reasonable to impose restrictions in the form of law on the access of the Storting to, I had almost said, anything at all. That, of course, is reasonable. However, it does not follow the interpretation which the Supervisory and Constituent Committee has taken of its intention of entering into the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, and at least it does not follow that interpretation as uncontroversial or that it is an understanding which has been there all along. The fundamental problem that lies below the position we are dealing with today is that of Carl I. Hagen's introduction to travel, the growth of the power of the state and the control of the exercise of power which, to the extent necessary in a modern society, is increasing. In brackets, it must be allowed to remind the representative Hagen that it is no more than a few days since he himself suggested from the pulpit of the Storting that the power of the state should also be extended to control the political parties and their statutes. There will, of course, be a rather significant growth in understanding what should be included in the exercise of power by the State. However, the basic problem is: is there the volume of exercise of power that is the problem – that is, the number of cases, the number of areas where decisions are taken all the time? Or is it the qualitative problem that is the real challenge? There are a number of statements both in the Frøiland Committee's investigation and in the setting up of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs that say that it is aware that the Storting is at risk of three, and perhaps even sometimes has crossed the limit of the will to control in a small way. One problem is also the willingness, under given circumstances, to establish a majority in order to allow the Storting to take into account what under the Constitution is the government's exclusive mark, namely the executive state power. If it is that everyone sees this danger, and that everyone realizes that it is not the case that the power of the Storting as a legislative, granting and controlling body is increasing as the scope of the control activities of the Storting is extended, then it would be desirable to direct proposals away from the revision of the Rules of Procedure, which can be easily read as an opportunity to extend the quantitative element, by also making provision for the individual representative of the Storing to have almost unlimited access to documents. There is reason to stress that the Enlarged Parliament's Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is not intended to represent, and even less to replace, the plenary assembly. The Supervisory and Constituent Committee of the Storing does not act on behalf of the Storing. And there may well be reason in today's media community to stress that individual representatives, even though they are members of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Stortinge, possibly the head of the same committee, do not sign the company in public either. There is a rather significant danger that today's media communities will increasingly bring the temptation closer, thus achieving the opposite of what is intended, namely a powdering of responsibilities, so that ultimately it is not possible to place responsibility anywhere, either in the Storing or in the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e523	The next speaker is André Dahl. The President will draw attention to the fact that, at the second time, the speaking time is up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e528	I'm not going to spend that long. I realized that the case-rapporteur, the representative of Cosmo, had some sort of visit to the link I made between the question of the Court of Auditors' right of access on the one hand and Storting's right of access on the other. I fully agree that there are basically two completely different questions. What I tried to achieve is that the representative Kosmo and the majority believe that the Basic Law § 75 f gives full transparency. Whether it's to mean something completely new, or whether it's to codify an established practice, I'm not going to discuss here – we say it in our remarks – but I take this into account. But what I think there is reason to point out – as I also said in my first post – is that the representative Kosmo with this also removes one of the legal arguments against full transparency for the Riksrevision. It is stated in the Stoltenberg government's letter that the same framework shall apply to the Riksrevision as to the Stortinget. And when the framework of the Stortinget is understood – by the majority and by the representative Kosmo – to be fully aware, unrestricted, the framework for the Court of Auditors will automatically have to follow if one follows the views previously expressed by the Prime Minister's office. The second legal argument that is gone is that there is a formal practice for refusal of transparency. The cancellation has previously been confirmed that there is no documented formal written refusal. So my point to the representative Kosmo is that when you write about the Riksrevision's right of access and point out something there, it's not related to what you're dealing with with the majority in terms of transparency under the Basic Law § 75 f. Then, in sum, we end up with the result of Storting's treatment on different occasions, when, in the autumn, we are faced with a balance between real political considerations – on a purely political basis: what is the purpose of control? What are the objectives of a wide or a narrower right of access, respectively? The Labour Party has partly taken some kind of stand here by already taking the political choice and excluding certain document types. It has not been dealt with by the right, as I said, in its group, and also by the representative on the pay side, which indicates that this should be dealt with until the harvest. But it may be worth noting that the political considerations really indicate that it is the Riksrevision rather than the alternating majority of the population in this room that should have a wide-ranging right of access. But it's a debate we're going to take the fall. I think it's useful that we get a clarification of what's really the situation after the decisions of the Stortinge by an alternate majority on different occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e545	There's something called taking one thing at a time. That's why I'm not going to participate in the debate that all the clarifications are going to take place for the autumn. But it is not a new challenge for Stortinget to make a political choice. I just want to comment on something that the representative Kosmo mentioned in his post. This concerns the question of the request of individual representatives for access to internal documents giving political considerations to former members of the government. That question has not been solved simply by saying that the government notes are deposited, and that they are therefore not available to future governments. In the archives of all departments there are documents giving rise to the views of former political management. This applies, for example: hand notes, in the case of preparations for government notes, etc. That is why, after the statement by the representative, Mr Kosmos, I take the view that such documents are, of course, dealt with in line with government notes, that is, they are not provided by later governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e552	First to the representative Inge Wohnning: I don’t remember completely, but I tried to avoid the word ‘professional’. If I got hurt to use it, it's wrong. Bigting representatives are agents. It's government councils, too. I actually don't think I used that word, but if I did, I agree entirely with the representative, Wage, that it's not a profession, it's an agent. But the comparison of possible criminal liability for offences and very serious errors, i.e. violations of legal texts, that it must also lead to criminal liability, I maintain. That principle seems to me to be important, because as the current national law is, it is not really the same access and possibility of criminal liability as other people in other positions. So said Inge Wohnning also that when the national court was created, a lot of things were considered. I want to say that when the national law and the constitution were made, it was completely different from the one we are now in. It was probably before parliamentarianism was introduced. It was at least before it was entirely normal and normal that governments were largely composed of big business representatives, former big business representatives, i.e. people from what we can call the political environment. This means, in fact, that in a national law today, there will be many Members who may have been good colleagues, good friends, of those who may be accused of national law. It wasn't the situation when the current state-law construction was created. It was definitely not a similar construction. Then to the question of viability. It is clear that most will look at a court of law composed of people who may have been colleagues with the defendant for 12 to 16 years, as inhabitant, if not formal, so real. For this reason, it cannot be shown that those who made the original Constitution by national law had thought of all the eventualities seen with their eyes. That's one of the reasons why we have to find another system. Today, therefore, those who bring the case, namely the prosecution authority – which will be Odelstinget – will be colleagues and friends of the one who may be accused, and those who sit and will decide the case as members of the national court, will also be. Just that in itself speaks to find a new system. So said the representative Inge Wohnning that state whites and state law scholars apparently had different views on the Constitution § 75 f. I would like to state that as far as I have understood our system, there are only two bodies that can really determine how the Constitution should be understood. One instance is The Storting through decisions in plenary, or at least the Storting as a national parliament. It has been clearly expressed by a majority in the Grand Duchy through the majority voting of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on the interpretation of Paragraph 75(f). Even if someone else thinks otherwise, this interpretation is in force. As referenced by the staging president, previous staging has also had that view regarding § 75 f. The fact that others have a different view is not so crucial. The second instance, which also decides how the Constitution is to be interpreted and understood, is the Supreme Court. If, in any case, any person invokes the provisions of the Basic Law, it will be the Supreme Court that decides whether the fundamental laws are applicable in each specific case. I understand that Inge Wohnning is concerned that there may be too much control for the executive state power, and that it may be a little boring sometimes. In fact, I think it is quite important to put the spotlight on this, based on debates in the Storting, for example. the debate on 14 May last, when we discussed the vote on St.meld. No 4 for 2001-2002 from the Control and Constitutional Committee on Government-Growth Relations, and whether it is in fact so to understand in our constitutional system that once the Storing has taken a decision, it is the duty of the government, the executive, to implement it. The Prime Minister had a number of principal statements from the United Kingdom’s pulpit where he clearly stated that once the Storting had taken a decision, it was the government’s duty – he said in an article ‘condemned duty’ – to implement the decision. When we now find that the Government in the draft revised national budget and in some other cases instead of telling the Storting how they intend to implement the Stortinge decision, says that the decision of the Stortinge will not be implemented, and invites the Stortinge to take a new and different decision, then the constitutional and parliamentary rules are, in fact, also set on the agenda. The same applies to statements by the Minister of Finance — if not here in the Chamber, then in a press conference — that decisions taken by the Stortinget with the votes of the government parties felt obliged to follow, in addition, the Government felt obliged to follow up what the government parties in the Stortinget had concluded by written signed agreements with other parties. But otherwise, decisions in the national assembly that the government parties were not in, of a subordinate nature, they were not meant to be anything but a kind of opinion from the Stortinget which they did not have to take so seriously, and which they did not have to carry out. This is contrary to what the Prime Minister said in the debate on 14 May last year. Then it is no wonder that more of us are actually even more interested in looking at St.meld. No 4 for 2002–03, which we have finally received, as regards reporting on the implementation of the decision making process. I wish that it too was subject to more attention in the future than what has been. I would like to say that the control by the Stortinge that the government implements the Stortinge decision should be strengthened. I would like to stress this when I saw the representative, Inge Wohnning, that he may have thought that the control and eagerness after what he calls big business and giving instructions to the government had become too extensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e580	No salary has spoken twice in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e583	For there to be no doubt: if the Storting wants to clarify the Constitution, Stortinget changes the Constitution. It's that simple. Of course, as far as the issue of national law is concerned, it is true that it was designed at a time that was completely different from today. However, the main difference between Norway at the time and Norway at the time was that conditions were much smaller in all senses of the word, and the collegial ties were even closer than they are today. Of course, the prerequisite for the functioning of national law in today's situation is that those who become members of it have the necessary personal integrity. It's that simple. Of course, if you do not believe that they have the necessary personal integrity, the institution is a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e592	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The size has now come to the examination of case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3001]] The setting used here has not been out of range for the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e613	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e624	The case we are going to deal with today is based on guidelines for the establishment of social security schemes, but in the light of several decisions that the Stortinget has taken in the past, it has subsequently also come to deal with more than that. In St.meld. No 32 for 2002–03, the Government writes that it will present an assessment of the social security guidelines as part of the revised 2003 national budget. The Government indicates that the economic and budgetary effects of any changes in the social security system will be significant and that the assessment of the guidelines should be seen in the context of the revised national budget and presented there. An overall committee notes that the Government then presents new guidelines in the revised national budget. The Committee would point out that the Stortningen during the examination of Innst. S. No 272 for 2001-2002 on the social security scheme 2002 adopted the following decisions: ‘The decision asks the Government to file a case on the social security policy. The case is presented in such a way that the Storting can adopt any new guidelines prior to the social security settlement in 2003.’ The draft budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs for 2003 reads: ‘A case will be brought about the guidelines after the end of the year, so that the Storting can deal with them before the social security scheme is settled.’ The government itself writes in St.meld. No 32 that the Stortinget has previously been aware of ‘the promotion of a case for assessing the social security guidelines in March 2003’. The Committee notes that the Government nevertheless chooses to present this assessment as part of the revised national budget for 2003. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, find that the Government does not follow up the decision of the Storting at the time of the Innst examination. S. No 272 for 2001–02 on social security schemes in 2002. The approach adopted by the Government, i.e. to present the assessment in the revised national budget, would in normal circumstances make it impossible for the Storting to change the Government’s proposal for guidelines before the year’s settlement had ended, since the discussions on the year’s settlement took place on 27 May, while the revised national budget will not be finalised until 20 June. The Committee notes that the Government proposes that the proposed guidelines be used as a basis for the implementation of the year’s settlement. The government’s approach would thus create the situation in which the Government would be able to base its own proposals for revised guidelines on the basis of the year’s social security settlement without the Stortinge had been given the opportunity to decide on the guidelines prior to the social security settlement. This is a situation in which the majority who initially want new guidelines, i.e. the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Center Party, want to avoid. The examination of the guidelines has thus been transferred from the Financial Committee to the Social Committee for consideration. In order to ensure that the new guidelines are also taken into account at the time of the year’s settlement, the Social Committee has adopted a progress plan allowing them to be taken into account in the discussions between the parties. As regards the content of the Government's proposal for new guidelines, the Committee notes that this implies that the Government proposes the following additions to the guidelines: «Registration shall be based on projected revenue developments during the regulatory year, together with an assessment of income developments over the last few years.» The majority, consisting of the lots I mentioned earlier, refers to the treatment of budget revenue. S. No 11 for 2002-2003, the position of the Social Committee on the 2003 State Budget, which adopted the following decision by the Stortinget: ‘The Government asks that the basic amount of the population’s money be regulated at least in line with the wage trend for economically active people’. The majority note that the Government, through its proposal for a social security policy, has not followed up the decision of the Grand Duchy, and that instead the Government chooses to maintain the wording ‘an overall income trend in line with developments in working life’. The majority maintain that the wage trend of retired persons should be at least in line with the development of active workers and that the guidelines should clarify this. The majority believe that underregulation can best be avoided by considering an adjusted basic amount where the last year’s difference between expected and actual wage developments is subordinated. For the purpose of the after-regulation calculation, the annual report of the Technical Calculation Committee on the basis of which the index is based shall be taken into account. The discussions will focus on the expected wage growth for all groups, i.e. ‘total wage earners’, in the coming years, as outlined in the Government’s proposal for a revised 2003 national budget. The majority emphasise that there is a trend in wages and salaries for all groups to be taken into account for the calculation, because there are pensioners from all employee groups. Employees as a whole will also, in the view of the majority, better reflect expected and real wage developments than choosing a selected group as a comparison group. However, the majority believe that special circumstances should be taken into account. Special circumstances mean the development of wages and salaries for individual groups, which is due not only to a purely pay supplement but also to changes in tasks or working hours, thereby reducing the relevance of a comparison of wage developments between the years in which the assumptions were changed. Taking into account the delay at the start of the discussions, there is no doubt in retrospect as to which part of the regulation of the basic amount is due to post-regulation and which part is due to regulation based on expected wage growth. The majority believe that the guidelines proposed by the Committee should also be taken into account in the social security system for 2003 in order to adjust the basic amount for the aftermath of 2002 to 2003 and that the majority promote the following proposals: ‘The decision asks the Government to base its work on the guidelines as amended by the St.melding. [[2002-2003]] No 32 cf. Inner. [[2002-2003]] S. No 223 The majority also indicates that the Stortinget during the treatment of budget revenue. S. No 11 for 2002-2003 adopted the following Decision: ‘The government asks the Government to resume the suspension of pensionstopping in June 2002 before the social security settlement in 2003.’ The majority assume that, as a result of the decision of the Grand Duchy, there are two components to be taken back again this year before the social security scheme takes place. The first part is that part of the lag between 2001 and 2002 which was not compensated by social security payments in 2002. The second part is lagging behind between 2002 and 2003, where the expected wage growth in 2002 was 5 pst. The majority assumes that 0.6 pst. the 2001 follow-up was not included in the settlement in 2002. In addition, the majority assumes that the cost of this in 2003 is 572 million. kr, cf. letter of 26 May 2003 from the Minister of Labour and Administration. The majority would point out that this implies full readjustment of the basic amount at least in line with wage growth with effect from 2001 and with guidelines that ensure the same in future settlement. A minority of the Right and Christian People's Party has made their own comments and promoted their own proposal. In respect of the fact that I, as the rapporteur-in-Office, am hardly the right person to make the comments and the proposal of full justice, I will leave to the spokespersons of the two parties to express their views on this matter. There is an additional comment from the Progress Party, which I believe the party itself will explain, and a proposal from the Progress Party and the Center Party, which I expect the two parties to come into their posts. I have thus promoted the majority's proposals in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e704	The representative Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e712	I would like to start by saying that I essentially agree with the considerations that just came from the case rapporteur. The case rapporteur should be commended for doing a good job with the matter. We're dealing with an important matter. About one million Nordics have social security and pensions as their main source of income. They require the same wage development as the economically active one. The size will today adopt new guidelines to ensure this. At the same time, it is clear that popular security is a formidable item of expenditure on the state budget. The majority has a responsibility for ensuring that the costs of popular security do not come out of control. The Committee shall present a split vote, composed of the majority of the members of the Workers' Party, SV, the Progress Party and the Centre Party. I would like to stress that I do not experience this as an expression of great disagreement between the opposition and the government parties. The main points are the opposite of each other. Firstly, everyone agrees that pensions and social security were subjugated last year. In the context of the review of the State budget of the year, the Workers’ Party proposed that the implementation of the social security system in 2002 be resumed in the spring settlement. This proposal was supported by a majority in Stortinget and is now followed up by all parties. Of course, we in the Workers' Party are pleased, and this will result in an extraordinary regulation of social security and pensions now in ours, which in total amounts to 572 million. kr in the year’s budget. The majority say in the guidelines that the basic amount in the future must be regulated at least in line with the wage trend for economically active people. Government parties say that this regulation must be in line with wage developments for active workers. I would like to say that the word'minimum' in this context underlines first and foremost that the basic amount should in any case not be underregulated. The important thing is that it is no longer stated that the regulation should be ‘overall’ in line with. The use of ‘overlay’ allows for a discretionary assessment that all batches now wish to remove. All lots also agree that when the growth of the basic amount is to be compared with other groups, the aggregate wage development statistics and estimates are the basis for comparison. Thus, an old debate about what is just a comparison group is parked. Most importantly, it may be that an overall committee also makes it clear that, for each social security settlement, adjustments are to be made for possible backlogs from the settlement year before. The settlement itself shall start with the first calculation of the lag. This is a core point to avoid underregulation of the basic amount over time. There is disagreement in the Committee on the selection of the model for the calculation of the delay. Of course, it is important that the right model is used, and I am pleased that the majority now say that the lag should be calculated from the deviation between expected and real wage developments in the calculation year. What is important, however, is that the principle of calculating a follow-up is now put in place. A system of annual calculation of backlogs does not undermine the basic amount of the population’s financial resources over time, even if the estimate of projected post-debt wage developments in the negotiating year turns out to be incorrect. This brings me to a demanding side of the year's settlement. The adjustment shows that there is some disagreement as to what to assume in relation to expected wage developments this year. The majority emphasise in their comments that the Government must base the estimate of the expected wage growth for all groups, as reflected in the Government’s proposal for a revised national budget. The working party endorses this wording. But I'd like to make some clarifications. Today, the size does not adopt an automatic indexation of the basic amount of population protection. Discussions between the State and social security organisations shall continue. The new guidelines make it clear that more aspects need to be taken into account. But, of course, the Government must be able to justify its position if one assumes a different expected wage trend this year from that estimated in the revised national budget. In this way, a reference that refers exclusively to income policy cooperation will not, in my view, be good enough. Here again, it is important to stress that if the estimate finally turns out to be incorrect, this should be taken again at the start of next year’s negotiations. It is therefore important that one in the Social Security Settlements Protocol makes it clear which estimate of expected wage developments is being taken into account. Of course, this also has a clear responsibility for the state. So everyone agrees that pensions and social security should follow the overall wage trend. There may be some disagreement about how much of this is going to be deposited immediately in the social security settlement now in ours, and how much is going to come in the form of a back-up. But it's not like the opposition adds up to a different adjustment of the basic amount than the government adds up to. The disagreement may occur at the time of the regulation. Furthermore, the new guidelines are clear on the need to be able to correct for specific circumstances. An example of a relationship for which it would be natural to correct is the last few years of teaching. Teachers have agreed to increase working time, and this is compensated by increased pay. A wage trend on this basis cannot be the starting point for a similar increase in the basic amount of the population’s security. We in the Workers' Party got a lot of criticism after the social security settlement last year. We believed that the Storting had no basis for rejecting the Government's proposal for social security settlement, even though we believed that the basic amount was then subordinated. We then said that we should help to ensure that this does not recur in future social security settlements. Today we fulfill our promise from then on. Of course, we're satisfied with that. But I would like to stress that it is not the Stortinget that conducts the social security negotiations. We'll adopt the guidelines. Now it is up to the social security settlement parties to take their job seriously. With the guidelines adopted today, it must be possible to reach agreement in the spring settlement. Of course, the state has a responsibility for that. However, social security organisations also have a responsibility for that. This is a responsibility that both parties must assume. In my opinion, it would be an accident if the discussions led to a break in the first year we have the new guidelines. It is not the case that in the event of a breach, the Workers' Party is ready in Stortingen to provide the social security organisations with what they are asking for at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e761	The size of the population today addresses the social security guidelines. The current guidelines were adopted by the Stortinget in 1999 and were at that time in line with the Government’s proposals. It is, in our view, the guidelines that will be the main tool of the Storting to provide guidance for the annual social security accounts. In the annual social security statements, the Stortinget will decide whether or not the guidelines have been followed. This helps to secure the Institute of Discussion between pensioners’ organisations and the Government, and there is a natural division of labour between corruption and government. What is disappointing in this matter is that the opposition obviously did not want a broad political solution. Those who read the proposals of the government parties and the opposition for guidelines in this matter will probably disagree as to why one could not agree. So do I. But here we are witnessing that some parties have considered it more appropriate to create a situation where the goal has been to create a picture that the government parties did not want to be in. Those who lose on this are the country's pensioners. It would have provided a significant level of security if the guidelines had had had an overall build-up behind them. But what separates the two proposals for guidelines? Government parties have proposed that the guidelines be changed from ‘in line with’ wage developments to ‘in line with’ wage developments. The opposition has proposed that developments be ‘at least in line with’ wage developments. We are afraid that this creates expectations that the regulation of the basic amount will follow a trend over the wage trend of other groups. In a situation where there is a broad political consensus about the need for a pension commission to assess the enormous challenges that the cost of popular security represents, I think there is no one, including the opposition, who believes that they or others are able to meet that kind of expectation. So we could have decided here unanimously that the pensioners should follow an income trend in line with the 'total wage earners', but one could not come to an agreement here. We agree that the regulation of the basic amount should be based on ‘total employees’. This was the second main requirement of pensioners' organisations. The third area is the organisation and the size of the enterprise. In the current guidelines, there are no references to post-regulation and there has been a main issue of dispute in the context of the annual discussions. We have therefore written in our proposal for guidelines that there should be post-regulation based on the difference between the actual adjustment of the basic amount and actual wage developments, corrected for special circumstances. This shall be based on figures from the calculation sample. Well, it doesn't make sense to say that. The figures from the calculation selection are indelible. It surprises me that the opposition does not want the same thing. They have chosen to maintain a continuing link with the concept of ‘expected wage development’. Thus, an opening has been put in so that one by regulation will again have a hopeless discussion of what was expected wage developments, and that at a time when one knows both actual wage developments and actual growth in the basic amount. The observer will now have discovered that, in addition to the fact that the government parties' proposals for guidelines are clearer, there is only one difference and that is the word ‘minimum’. Many will therefore probably wonder why the government parties are not just voting on the opposition's proposal for guidelines. The answer to this is simple: as government parties, we cannot help in creating expectations that pensioners will have an income development over employees. However, if one is to put the disappointment behind it — and one is to do so, disappointment is to be left behind — and look closely at the outcome, one can therefore say that there is, in reality, a broad political consensus on the broad lines of the guidelines for future social security schemes. I am very pleased that Bjarne Håkon Hanssen from the Workers' Party emphasises the same and thus shows that this is a vision that has broad support in the Stortinget. We believe that with these clarifications in the guidelines, the Stortinget will ensure that pensioners will follow income trends elsewhere in society, and that it will be easier for the Stortinget to decide whether the government in the annual discussions on social security has followed up the guidelines of the Storinget. An important premise for this is that there is a complete agreement to establish 2001 as the starting year for these guidelines, by re-establishing one in the year’s discussions as a result of the settlement in 2002. This is within the revised national budget and will be followed up by the Government. The delays in compensating for the 2001 settlement are based on the organisation’s presentation of the settlement and the delivery of the protocol, where the parties agreed that the organisations included recital 4 pst. wage growth from 2000 to 2001. This is because the then Labour Party government chose to speed up discussions with the pensioners’ organisations, so that they did not know about the government’s estimate of wage growth in the revised national budget. This will add up to 0.6 pst. from 1 May of this year, at a cost of 572 million. kr. The increase is in addition to the ordinary G-regulation for 2003 and will thus address the debate on lags. It is thus established in 2001 as a starting year. The Government Parties consider that the guidelines adopted today must be taken into account in the social security settlement for 2003 but at the same time agree that the settlement for 2003 needs to be anchored in income policy cooperation with the social partners and the Declaration of the Contact Committee on income settlements in 2003. It is also consistent with the reference of the current guidelines to the other income policy approach. This wording is also continued in the majority's proposal for guidelines and, in this context, the government parties will vote in favour of II in the vote. We have been concerned that the comments from the opposition on the social security settlement for 2003 are intended to weaken the discussion institute between the organisations and the government, which the Stortinget has previously been concerned about. A test of this will be today's debate. If this becomes a debate on social security settlement in 2003, the Stortinget shows in reality that there is no desire to continue the discussion institute, but that the regulation of the basic amount should be a matter for the Stortinget and the Government – unfortunately in that order. In this way, the statements from both the rapporteur and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen have been reassuring. I will end by wanting the government councils and pensioners' organisations to be happy with the negotiations, based on these new guidelines. I will then address the suggestions that have been referred to in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e789	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the suggestions he himself made. The President will confirm that there are disappointments to be forgotten as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e794	Initially, I will be allowed to congratulate the case rapporteur on the fact that in a very short time he has been able to get good comments and draft negotiations within the committee. The rapporteur shall be congratulated as much as possible. There has been a great deal of joy — and not least a big victory for Norwegian pensioners — in this case of changing guidelines for social security provision that the term ‘overall’ is removed once and for all. This concept has, of course, been the main reason why the majority of the population and the government have repeatedly under-regulated the basic amount of the population, without claiming that this has been contrary to current guidelines. This can no longer be used as a justification, since the majority now emphatically states that the annual adjustment of the basic amount should be made at least in line with the developments in the income of economically active persons. It is now only the government parties that do not share this principle. This may not surprise many people, because they have noticed what has been the Right position in recent years' social security settlement. The Government Parties have correctly removed something from what had been submitted as proposals for new guidelines by the Ministry and the Government in connection with the submission of St.meld. No 32 for 2002-2003. There it was possible to ignore the following decisions taken by the Stortinget in connection with the treatment of the budget-inner. S. No 11 for 2002-2003: ‘The Government asks that the basic amount of the population’s money be regulated at least in line with the wage trend for economically active people’. I must admit that I have been in the clear error that when Stortinget makes such clear decisions as have been made in the past in this matter, this would be followed up by the Government. It seems that this is not the case with regard to the living conditions of pensioners in this country. It is worth noting to the Council of State that the number of committees writes the following in the setting: ‘The majority note that the Government, through its proposal for guidelines on social security, has not followed up the decision of the Grand Duchy’. It is also gratifying that, from 1 May 2003, pensioners will be subject to the underregulation of 0,6 pst. which occurred between 2001 and 2002. It is, however, a fact that although neither the FFO nor the Pensioners’ Association have claimed after payment the amount resulting from the underregulation in the period from 1 May 2002 to 1. In fact, in May 2003, Norwegian pensioners are expecting this delay to be paid before the start of a new social security settlement. The Progress Party fully understands and supports the current expectations. The scheme to which it is added means that the pensioners actually lose it under-regulation of 0,6 pst. which occurred during the period from 1 May 2002 to 1. of May 2003. The confusion has not just been reduced as a result of various games, both the Prime Minister's behaviour in Dagsrevyen, where he talked about post-payment, and the playoffs of some other representatives from the government parties, on whether or not this money has been put into revision. The representative, Höie, says from this pulpit now that this money is in the revision of the year, so we have to expect that this is in place. The Progress Party proposes that the money be paid as quickly as possible so that pensioners do not lose the amount resulting from the underregulation in the period from 1 May 2002 to 1. of May 2003. The party of progress and the Central Party are the only parties that stand for this. It just has to take note, but surprising that it happens, it probably isn't. What is positive, however, is that the majority, consisting of the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, have succeeded in forcing the government parties to move from flanks to flanks and then finally to act as the majority has determined by previous decisions. Through a series of social security settlements, the party of progress has tried to change the policy so that the concept of ‘over-the-counter’ was removed, while proposing to regulate the basic amount in a range that would have led to under-regulation not taking place, but in fact, at a much earlier stage, the pensioners could ensure a purchasing power development at least in line with workers. This has not been possible in the past, neither in the periods during which Bondevik or various workers' party governments have been in the government quarter. So there's going to be a little bit of weird criticism on the part of the Workers' Party, seen in that context. Let's not stay so long with what's happened before, but let's rather rejoice that the fight that, among other things. The party has been involved in the implementation of the social security guidelines and, finally, it seems that it has now been brought forward and that, in any event, the fall in social security spending in 2002 is to be re-regulated from 1 May 2003. Although this is not an entirely optimal solution, and once again the pensioners don't get what they should be entitled to, at least we're going in the right direction. I would also, after the experience we have now gained with the Government's lack of willingness to follow up the decisions taken on pensions and social security, strongly recommend that the Council of State read carefully what the majority of the Committee says in this position, both in terms of the type of guidelines to be used and what should be the basis for any discussion. I would like to say that this is a good start to future base payment regulations, thereby improving purchasing power development for Norwegian pensioners. Norwegian pensioners really deserve this! Finally, I would like to address the proposals made by the Progress Party on or with other parties on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e839	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e843	The Christian People's Party supported the proposal that the Government should present a separate case on the guidelines for social security settlement. When a dealer, it is important that all parties know what driving rules you have to deal with. Today’s attitude shows that there is a broad consensus that the regulation of the basic amount should be based on the income development of all employees. The Christian People's Party is disappointed that one did not get a broad deal about the guidelines for future settlement, when one is so close to each other in solution. This would provide pensioners with security and predictability in relation to how annual regulation should be conducted. The Christian People's Party believes that these guidelines are the main tools of the Storting to provide guidance for annual social security schemes. The discount must ensure that these are followed up in the annual settlements. This will ensure that the Institute of Discussion between pensioners’ organisations and the Government is followed up. When the Social Committee gave its opinion, a journalist concluded that the only difference between the proposals of the government parties and the opposition was the word ‘minor’. I wonder if this is not a correct assessment. We have proposed that the part of the guidelines relating to the regulatory year be amended to: ‘The objective of the regulation shall be to provide pensioners with a pension for social security purposes with an income trend in line with developments in working life’. The Opposition Wants «an income development at least in line with developments in working life.» The Christian People's Party cannot contribute to the creation of a pensioner's expectation that they will receive a settlement that is above the income development of ordinary workers. Parties to the Government have submitted a concrete, neat and clear proposal for guidelines on the re-regulation of the basic amount. It has been in the Christian People's Party and the Right's interest that the driving rules for the reregulation should clarify what can be expected from both parties. The aim must be to remove all uncertainties. Experience from recent years just underlines the need for this. To me, the difference between the proposals of the majority and the minority seems not to be substantive, but more rhetorical. The majority’s proposals include the concept of expected wage developments. This concept creates confusion in such a context. It is essential to know the variables to be regulated in relation to the post-regulation process. It must be in place to remind you that there is a real increase in wages and salaries in the post-regulation process. As pensioners are required to have a growth in line with the wage growth elsewhere in society, the actual wage growth must therefore be at the root of, as proposed by the government parties. I would appreciate if the majority could explain what is the real difference between the proposals. Or does the majority and minority agree? Christian People's Party plays with open and honest cards. We want pensioners to be guaranteed the same growth in the basic amount as normal employees. Therefore, we have said that the adjustment needs to be adjusted after last year's difference between actual growth in the basic amount and actual wage growth. In this way, we get clear guidelines, we don't have to create uncertainty for the pensioners, and the result is that the pensioners get better overall. Finally, let me make it clear that the government parties are following up the Prime Minister's clarification that the lag from settlement in 2002, defined as 0.6 pst. or 572 million. kr, shall be entered from 1 May of this year. This must not be called into question. We will come back with the social security scheme for 2003. The discussions start this week. There may be a risk that the settlement will be characterised by indexation rather than by real discussion. That is not the wish of the Christian People's Party. We want the negotiating institute to be preserved and strengthened. I am pleased that the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen also underlined this in his contribution today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e883	This is an important and important case for about one million of the country's citizens, who are related to the fear of the people, and who depend on that source of income in order to be able to exist. It is also a day of joy, I think, as a representative of the Central Party, when we can now make a minority proposal which was promoted in the Grand Chamber almost a year ago, more specifically on 20 June last year, into a majority proposal. Last year, the following parties, the Party of Advances, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, promoted a proposal that was so worded: «The guidelines for social security arrangements are amended to read as follows:The objective of the regulation shall be to provide pensioners with income trends at least in line with developments in working life and in line with the principles and objectives underlying the implementation of the income policy framework or not.» That'll be the majority for that now, and I'm very happy for that. So says the representative of the Christian People's Party, among others. the present disagreement between the majority and the minority is not material in nature but more verbal in nature. Why couldn't the minority also join this? I think there's a certain hollowness in the argument that comes from the minority here. At least in line with the development of active workers means that there is room for action in the negotiations that we all agree on between the Government and the organisations that are involved by pensioners in these negotiations. In line with this, the level would freeze in many ways and lead to a more indexed settlement. At least in line with the development of active workers also means that if there is a political will and ability to do something about it, some of the historical delays in terms of social security and the purchasing power and financial capacity of pensioners can be re-established. It may well be that this year, with perhaps almost zero settlements in terms of wage developments, the need for pensioners to have a slightly higher rise in order to maintain their financial capacity, which is not particularly good, is not seen at least for the minimum pensioners and others who are in it. I am very pleased that there is a clear majority of people who define these guidelines today – that there should be a wage trend for pensioners at least in line with developments in working life, that there should be a loop for re-regulation of deviations between projected wage developments and real wage developments from the previous year, and that this should be cleaned up. Then I want to link some critical comments to the government's arrangement. St.meld. No 32 for 2002-2003 is at least the smallest single payment message I have received in my time in the context of social security policies. And that's okay. But what I want to criticise is that this came too late to what was the Storting's wish and clear decision. This settlement was to be clarified with regard to guidelines in good time before the negotiations started. Very familiar was there already a small meeting yesterday when it was about the retirement stoppage, and actually the negotiations started tonight. 21.00. It is then legally late to deal with the guidelines today. But now it has to be. The second thing I would like to comment on is the Government's action in relation to the clear decision of the Great Government: ‘The government asks the Government to resume the suspension of pensionstopping in June 2002 before the social security settlement in 2003.’ This has not happened either, even though the Prime Minister at Dagsrevyen last week said that this misunderstanding could be cleared up, and that the delay would be paid. I think I quote the Prime Minister relatively eloquently when I say that he said this should be at the bottom of the year, or rather come to the top of the year's settlement. Then, together with the Progress Party, we believe that we need to make a decision on the allocation here, so that this comes before the start of the social security scheme. We also believe that it should cover the entire social security period, from 1 May to 1 May, and not just eight months, as it is now calculated from the Government. It is easy to get the promises from here to the pensioners in line with the promises of coverage and help at higher power prices. We have had clear statements on previous settlements that underregulation should be adjusted up, and that is not happening completely this year, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e920	Social security is one of the most important pillars of what we call the Norwegian welfare society, and then we, as politicians, have a responsibility for people's confidence in our social security system, that they can trust that they get what politicians promise. It's almost a million people who have social security as their main source of income, so it concerns a lot of people. We have a responsibility to regulate the social security as promised. We also have a responsibility to ensure that the growth of social security expenditure does not come out of control. This means that on some occasions, by some crossroads, it is right to make changes, changes to the social security system to ensure that it is sustainable over time, so that the community can actually finance a social security system in line with what is promised to the pensioners and future pensioners. But in this case it has to be made clear by standing up and saying that changes are necessary here, and then implementing them, as it is. At the beginning of the 1990s, restrictions and changes in the social security system were introduced to ensure that it was financed in the future. What should not be done is that one thing is said and done another thing, that we are expecting the basic amount of social security to be adjusted in line with wage developments, and that we are not doing it in practice. It is precisely to avoid having a set of promises that are not followed up in practice, that there has been a broad consensus that we should now tighten up, improve, clarify the guidelines for social security settlements and implement post-regulation, so that there is consistency between what politicians from all parties say and what is actually being done. I am glad that after there was some dispute about it last fall, and also now in ours, the government has underlined that it was a misunderstanding when many of us thought that the government was against post-regulation, and that there was no money put into it in the revised national budget. The Prime Minister has then stressed that there was a misunderstanding, that it has always been the intention of post-regulation and that money has been put into the revised national budget. Now I believe that the government greatly contributed to creating the basis for that kind of misunderstanding itself. But it plays less role today, the crucial thing is that there is now agreement on one element, regulation. The second is that we have a long way to go to agree on guidelines. It's a shame that we didn't manage to reach full agreement, but essentially, and in terms of the intention of the goal, namely that the pension should be adjusted as wages develop, there is consensus. There is some disagreement about technique, about important details, but the main message is the same. This means that a total increase again repeats that pensions are to be regulated in line with wage developments, and then we have to follow it up in practice. Savings cannot be done by trying to do anything but what is said to be done, because then there is unnecessary uncertainty about the social security, the basic amount and the income of nearly a million pensioners, and the Workers' Party will not be involved. I also agree with what the case rapporteur and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said, that there has been an unfortunate handling of this in the sense that it would have been much clearer if we could have had a treatment of the guidelines for social security settlement as a separate matter. The reason why the Workers' Party voted in favour of the social security settlement last year was that we agreed that there would be a separate case about the guidelines. Instead, we get this kind of unusual treatment because the government still didn't add up to it. But when all of this is done and done, I feel that Stortinget has found a good solution to the most important questions. One reason why there was uncertainty about whether the Government had intended to implement a back-regulation of 0.6 p.m. was that when the Minister of Finance presented the revised budget, he formulated himself so that everyone thought it was not supposed to be half a billion dollars, or nearly 600 million. kr, to finance post-regulation of pensions in 2003. Now we see that there was also a misunderstanding, and then the question is, if this is a misunderstanding, then I assume that money has been put into the revised budget, so that it will be granted when it is dealt with, and that the government will follow up the decisions. Otherwise, it says clearly from now on and not at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e939	In the work on the social security settlement of the year, the Government has focused on three aspects. The first is respect for the institution and the form of settlement: as long as the size has not decided otherwise, the basic amount shall be adjusted in the course of social security settlement, and this shall take place after discussions with pensioners’ organisations. From that point of view, I have to ask for an understanding that I cannot go into detail on the arrangements for the settlement that the Government intends to base on in the discussions with the organisations, in addition to confirming that we will of course base the guidelines adopted by the Government. The second government's emphasis is that pensioners have to be re-regulated after the social security settlement of the Stoltenberg government in 2001. I settled the time when there was a lack of assumptions, and the government has therefore not been in doubt that the error that the government then made had to be corrected. The question was only when and in what way, and so our assessment has been that regulation should be done in the settlement. I'm glad of the general uprising that's in Stortingen about this post-regulation. I have therefore already, at the opening of the year's social security discussions, informed the pensioners' organisations that the Government will propose an increase in the basic amount of 0.6 pst. with effect from 1 May 2001, as re-regulation for 2001. The third aspect we have highlighted is that social security must be part of the overall income policy approach and that the settlement in 2003 must therefore be seen in the context of income policy cooperation with the social partners. We therefore believed, and still believe, that it was right not to submit proposals to the Storting on new guidelines for social security until the main features of the year's wage settlement were clear. Let me underline the importance of social security provision being seen in the context of income policy cooperation. Labour and cost developments in Norway have been so much stronger for many years than in our competitors that it has put jobs in industry and other competitive activities at risk. The increase in unemployment in the last year is just a warning of what it can lead to if we don't get the cost growth down. In the longer term, the consequence will not only be high and increased unemployment, the consequence will also be that the foundations of the Norwegian economy and the Norwegian welfare state will be threatened. I think we should note that Director-General Eivind Reiten now repeats that it is no longer profitable for Norsk Hydro to invest in Norway. There's something everyone should notice, not least those of us who are concerned about how to afford pensions and other welfare schemes in the future. Therefore, when, following the personal initiative of the Prime Minister, the Government has committed itself to working with all the social organisations to make pay developments in Norway more consistent with the development of our trading partners, it is not only important for employees and businesses. It's important to all of us, and it's not least important for the pensioners and everyone else who depends on transfers from the community. In order to take into account competitiveness and future value creation, everyone must also take responsibility. We can't say that it's just everyone else who has to take responsibility for the community and the future – solidarity is about all groups joining in. Everyone has done that too – so far. Industrial workers and others working in the private sector, national and municipal employees, the agricultural industry – everyone has accepted settlement in line with the opinion of the Contact Committee in January this year. It is therefore both reasonable and necessary that social security schemes should also be seen in the context of cooperation in the field of income policy. On this basis, I am pleased to note the broad consensus in the Storting that the income development of pensioners should be linked to the income development of employees. I have noticed in particular that the guidelines clarify that the pensioners should not come out worse than the employees in total. At the same time, I have noticed that the guidelines clarify that the social security scheme should be adapted to the overall income policy structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e965	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e968	I'll be brief, because the lines are now going to be 1 minute – two short questions. One is that the majority of the Committee says that consideration should be based on wage developments in the estimate of the revised national budget. It is estimated in the revised year to 4.5 pst. My question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State follow this up and accept what the majority has said there? So a question about whether to use the words 'at least in line with' or 'in line with' wage developments. It was also the representative Höie from the government parties inside his post. He fears that the bulk of the population is now approaching an indexation around the social security system, but you probably don't do that if you say it's going to be "in line with". Will the Council of State clarify this: what is the closest to an indexation — is it ‘in line with’, or is it ‘at least in line with’?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e977	These questions are of a character that goes so closely up to the details of how to approach the settlement and discussions with the pensioners, that I don't think it's right to give completely precise answers. But let me just repeat what I've said before: we intend to follow the guidelines adopted by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e982	Some of the problems we have had recently are linked to the fact that when decisions are taken in the Storting, the Government accepts them, and then one – months and a long time afterwards – threatens with cabinet questions directly or indirectly if the Storing is about to implement the decisions it has already taken. That's what we see in kindergarten, that's what we've seen in social security, and we've seen it in other questions as well. First, therefore, it is important that the Council of State clearly states that it intends to follow the guidelines adopted by the Council. But in addition, I would like to repeat the question in my article, namely that I assume that there is money allocated to this in the revised budget, so that we do not feel that because of the social security settlement, cabinet issues are raised in the budget balance. This is important to clarify, because the government has created unnecessary much uncertainty for hundreds of thousands of pensioners with its way of dealing with this so far. Now there has to be peace and security around these questions, and then we can't experience the government taking a rematch in the social security case, as it has done in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e989	It should be quite clear that the Government will not engage in discussions with the organisations on the social security settlement or promote the proposition for the Storting on things for which we do not have budgetary coverage. Besides that, I don't think it's right to say anything on that question either.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e994	I record that the government parties describe that their proposals for guidelines are very close to what the majority are now in favour of and that will be adopted today. But it is after the government parties have changed the guidelines in relation to what the government itself presented in relation to the revised national budget. I would like to ask the Council of State whether the Council of State acknowledges that there is a difference in reality in the description of the guidelines as originally presented by the Government, and as the majority has now provided for both the settlement of the year and the settlement that will come later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1001	No, I don't want to admit that there's any difference, but it's a clearer clarification. What is now adopted by the Stortinget lies – as I see it – within what the Government proposed, but the content has been clarified and clarified more strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1007	The Council of State said that no guidelines would be sent to the Stortinget until this year's wage settlement was in port. It must now be to attack it very badly. The guidelines must, of course, be principles of the negotiations and procedure. The consequences of the wage settlement must be taken into account in the negotiations and be the subject of the negotiations, and is primarily a percentage assessment of what is to be done in those negotiations. Isn't that right? I'd like to ask the Council of State about that. Can the Council of State respond to which chapter and to which post the money for the post-payment of the pension is brought? I have a suspicion that it's the middle class. But where does the revised national budget state that the mixed item contains this money?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1014	I have previously stated from this speaker that if anyone wanted to place me in the Ministry of Finance, I would not have protested so strongly, but I am not there right now, and I do not think it is right to answer budgetary technical questions that concern entries in the revised national budget. I repeat that the Government will not go into discussions or make proposals for the Storting for which we do not have budgetary coverage. On the first question, it is central that, in the context of income policy cooperation, it was important for us to see to what extent and in what way all parties complied with the agreement on income policy cooperation, before promoting a case for the Stortingen on the guidelines for social security settlement. That's why we found it necessary, as I said in my main post, to wait to come up with proposals for guidelines on the main pattern of pay-rolling.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1021	I stand here with a letter from the Ministry of Finance to the Finance Committee in connection with the examination of the revised national budget, which is just linked to social security and the uncertainty created, among other things. by the Prime Minister of the media. The answer from the Ministry of Finance is extremely unclear. Combined with the opinions now expressed by the Council of State, it is even more unclear to me what the Government intends to do in terms of financing the social security scheme and the decision taken here today. I think it is especially that the Council of State chooses to express itself as unclear as he is now doing related to this. When it can be read in this letter that the Government states that if the social security scheme implies the need for increased appropriations, the Government will make proposals for containment. In this case, it will be far-reaching in the examination of the revised budget. It helps once again to create confusion about what the Government intends to do, and whether the Government believes that they have funded the proposals that exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1030	As it has been clarified, I think by representatives of almost all parties, discussions with pensioners' organizations are supposed to be real discussions, not a dictatorship. That means that what we're going to do for the Storing, exactly what we're going to cost, we don't know until the discussions are over. That means that here and now I can't say exactly how much it's going to cost. But what I have said, and what the Minister of Finance has said, is that the issue of total containment will be addressed in relation to the proposition that follows after the discussions have ended. But I hope I can interpret the Storting to that, that tonight we're actually going to go into real discussions with the pensioners' organizations, and not present them for a dictatorship.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1035	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1040	Let me answer the question that the Council of State put into the air at the end of its reply. Of course, the Government should engage in real discussions with pensioners’ organisations. It's the ones that represent the retired. But it's actually based on a minimum set by the Storing today. On page 3 of the option, first column: ‘The majority would point out that this implies full readjustment of the basic amount at least in line with wage growth with effect from 2001’. It's math, not negotiation. Further: «and with guidelines that ensure the same in future settlement». It's math. The two re-adjustments to the basic amount shall be at the bottom, and then according to the new guidelines adopted today: ‘at least in line with’ the wage increase. The government is free to negotiate higher regulation than this, but not lower. If the Government tries to do so, it will, in the event that the Government's proposal on the social security settlement comes to its attention and decisions, both in terms of the basic amount and the additional appropriations required. The letter of reply to the Government regarding whether money has been put into the stock exchange also states that if more money is needed in the stock exchange, suggestions will be made. It really means that closer to admitting that the Prime Minister was not speaking quite correctly when he said that this delay had been taken into account, you cannot get there. At least we will have that finally revealed when the social security scheme comes to the house. Otherwise, I think it's a little sad that the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party, as far as I know, will not be quite clear on this point, namely to determine the basic amount on which to base. Because that's math. In fact, we thought that the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party agreed that the basic amount that arises from the two after-regulations is NOK 54 789, which should be the basis for this social security settlement. We will continue to ask the SV and the Workers' Party to vote in favour and clarify it, so that the Council of State cannot claim that there is uncertainty from the majority of the Stortingen on this mathematical question. I think it's sad that it's just the Progress Party that takes the consequences of what we're saying. We say with a majority that there should be a higher basic amount in 2001–2002 than it was. If the correct regulation had been made at the time, the pensioners would have received 858 million until 1 May this year. kr more. It says the Workers' Party and SV that they should have received it, but they do not want to vote to grant the money. It is disappointing, I think, because there were hopes created in clear statements from Ballo and Jens Stoltenberg that the pensioners would receive a refund. I regret that it is only the Progress Party that is in reality at what they have promised the pensioners in public statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1065	First, a line to the representative Carl I. Hagen. The Central Party also takes the consequences of what we said last year, and what we thought should have been regulated from 1 May 2001 to 2002, by adding the money mentioned by the representative Hagen. I think this has something to do with credibility. The pensioners have believed that this would come, and it's not coming now. Now it is only part of the package in force from 1 May 2003, if applicable. I think the council has been very vague here. After payment, the Government has calculated on the basis of an adjustment of 0,6 pst. Then the government has also found out that it's 572 million. kr, only for eight months. We think it should be calculated for a year, and then the number is 858 million. kr. This is mathematical and has budgetary implications – as has been pointed out here – and this should be found in the revised national budget now. It has been said by some representatives here that those who are negotiating parties, the pensioners themselves and their organisations have not demanded a refund. Yes, they do. It says here in a press release from the FFO of 13 May 2003. Its title is: ‘Safety settlement 2003: the JRC refuses to negotiate with the State – before the government has paid out money to its pensioners’ There may be a case between the Government and the FFO, but at least the claim has been made. I know that there are other big organizations that support this requirement. I have received that in writing today. It says, among other things: here that Stortinget asked that this delay be taken up and paid after. In addition, it says: ‘The Government’s failure to follow up the promises made by Stortingen to the country’s pensioners is totally unacceptable and very provocative when we know how many underprivileged and minimum pensioners who had sorely needed these extra crowns,’ says Arnt Holte, head of the FFO.’ There is more in this press release that I expect the ministry has received, and other parties should also have received it. I believe clearly that the demand is made by the negotiating party in this context, and I also think it has credibility to make reference to the fact that this figure will be included in the budget when we deal with it in mid-June, and not be as vague as the Government is now, and just say that this is a misunderstanding, this is in place. In that case, at least reference should also be made to the location of the government's proposal for a revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1088	The last two speakers have tried to create a lack of clarity and uncertainty about the point on which there is complete clarity and no uncertainty. Deferral by 0,6 pst. as from 1 May of this year, alerts have already been issued to pensioners’ organisations, and it has been clearly taken into account in the revised national budget, which the Prime Minister has clarified. It's embedded in the crosspost, just so it's clear. When I don't want to be concrete, it's because there's going to be discussions with the organizations. If those discussions are real, I can't stand here on this pulpit until the discussions start, and say what the state's offer is going to be, what it's going to cost, and what it's going to look like. Then we won't take the Institute seriously, and we want to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1095	It's not only a badge day for the pensioners, but also a day when the Progress Party can put a new bullet in the political score. In all years of the Progress Party has been represented in the Stortinget, the party has, in all social security settlements, made proposals that the basic amount of the population's money should be regulated at least in line with wage developments, but has been reduced. Equal treatment of the wage trend of pensioners and other employees has to do with respect for the human dignity of the older generations. Two clear decisions – one on guidelines for the regulation of G and another on payments and delays – from a majority during the treatment of the State budget, have been ignored and not followed up by this Government. I am most disappointed in the Christian People's Party, which likes to call itself a party of values. They have not wanted to meet the legitimate demands of pensioners in the current revised national budget. Prime Minister Bondevik's statement that this is a misunderstanding, and that the Government had this revised, is not a believer. The Minister of Finance's statement that pensioners also have to show moderation is an unphysical statement by a Minister of Finance – which he should regret from this pulpit. It is the pressure from the majority of the opposition and from popular opinion that has led the government to turn around at a significant point in the attitude. I am pleased that the Workers' Party this time put its foot down and did not allow itself to buy the government parties, which were attempted, and which would have given the pensioners far worse settlement this year than what is now available. The lack of follow-up by the Minister of Labour and Administration to the two clear majority decisions of the Storting would, in my opinion, have consequences under normal political circumstances in this house. Guidelines for future social security settlement are now in place. However, the majority will not follow the Progress Party and the Central Party in terms of repaying the debt in dollars and cents.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1106	I will be brief, but I have a very simple question to the Council of State that I hope he can answer. Now it has been decided quite emphatically from this pulpit that what the Storting is doing today, and has done in the past, is to set the minimum offer to be given to the country's pensioners in connection with post-employment and back-regulation. It's been known for the government a long time. When the Prime Minister then goes out – after the revised budget has been presented – and expresses that there must be a misunderstanding that there has been a doubt about the Government's will and ability to finance this, and a letter from the Ministry of Finance has now arrived, which I believe creates even more ambiguity, I think it is my duty as head of the Finance Committee to clarify this. We are in the middle of the review of the revised budget, and we get a response from the ministry that is in no way elucidating as to whether the minimum offer is financed in the revised or not. And that the Council of States must be able to respond to, no matter what kind of negotiations he is going to conduct with the parties now. Is the minimum offer funded or is it not funded?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1113	I expect the Council of State to pick up some questions here and correspond to the end. I also have a question for the Council of State. As this is now developing through the uncertainty that is clearly also apparent in the Chamber in this case, relating to what individuals have said and done, I was saying in the various offices in the government quarters, it seems that we should not get any answers until we are presented with the actual proposal on the social security settlement. Then we have to admit that the so-called discussions that are going on right now – they started well yesterday, it is well yesterday and today the so-called discussions are going to take place – are about discussions and not real negotiations, at least I have been able to see through my role as case rapporteur for a number of social security decisions that have been in recent years. I have to ask the Council of State: when can the Storting expect to get this matter, i.e. the proposition on social security, to Stortinget? We're running out of time, and we're almost over in June. As the discussions will not end until now, i.e. tonight, it may be interesting to know when we can expect to get the matter to the Stortinget. Do we get it, like this one, at the very last minute so it won't be possible to treat it at all, or do we get it in good time, so that we get a real and serious treatment of this year's social security settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1123	I would like to give a clear and unambiguous answer to the representative Siv Jensen's question, but I cannot do so without revealing the state's position on the ongoing discussions, so I have to stand by that. But the government will not promote any proposition for the Storting for which we do not at the same time propose containment for. When it comes to the question of when the proposition will be promoted, I can guarantee that it will come so quickly that the Storting can get a real deal on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1130	This is going to be a very strange situation. As far as I can see, the state is about to make its offer to the counterparty, i.e. the organisations. The majority in the United Kingdom have stated that there is a minimum offer, as the majority have defined it. Now the Council of State is very worried about me when he says he will not reveal the state's offer to Stortinget. That means that the state's offer is largely complete, it's just that the Storting must not know it before the parties. I don't think the parties get mad even if the Storting knows. However, this may indicate that the Council of State’s response that the state’s offer should not be revealed may mean that the state’s offer is not at least the majority of the population today. Could I at least get a confirmation of the state's offer – and that is the state's offer, not the government's offer? So today, the National Assembly has actually said what minimum should be in terms of its offer. Can the Council of State confirm that the offer made by the State will be at least consistent with that expressed by the majority today and that the Government has not intended in any way to make an offer on behalf of the State which is lower than the majority of the population today has decided that it should be?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1135	It's with a certain amazement I hear how the Council of State is dealing with these questions in the staging room. This is not a matter of revealing anything, it is a matter of financing a post of which the government's own members have created the impression of being financed and as such must not be financed in the negotiations that are now taking place in the Grand Duchy. This means, therefore, that there is coverage in the miscellaneous item, as it is called, for what has happened – coverage for the first part of post-regulation, which does not concern this debate, but also for what is ahead of us, namely the minimum offer that the majority of the population now obliges the government to present in the social security settlement. This is therefore a question of financing these matters after the decision. We have full respect for the Government to conduct negotiations with the pensioners' organisations, so that's not what this is about. This is whether the funding of this minimum offer is available or whether it means that the Storting must finance it. In this case, representatives of the Government have been grossly misinformed not only by the public but also by the Government. After all, this is all about a lot of money. But if I can allow myself to ask the question in a slightly different way, then maybe the Council of State can approach it that way. Does that mean that no proposals from the Government will be promoted to finance the social security settlement that is about to start? This means, to put it the other way around, that the Council of State can guarantee today that no additional proposals for financing the forthcoming social security settlement will be promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1142	Ola D. Incense has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1145	As we have pointed out in relation to the guidelines, we have respect for the negotiating institute. But there are no questions about negotiating offers from the state about this with the post-payment and what the government itself has put to 752 million. kr. It's a question of where we're going to find this money, when there's so much ambiguity from the government itself. The Minister of Finance has said: zero settlement and minimum offers. The Prime Minister has said that it was a misunderstanding that the money was in place. Then, State Council Victor D. Norman today should be the government's envoy here to clean up and make an absolute clarification on this. I think that what Stortinget has demanded should be clarified before the negotiations came into effect. The government should now be able to respond to their budgetary coverage for this in their proposal for a revised national budget, as stated. the questions raised here by the Chair of the Financial Committee and by Mr Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1150	There shall be real discussions with pensioners’ organisations. In these discussions, the State will present proposals which are clearly in line with the guidelines adopted by the Storting and for which it is covered in the draft budget promoted by the Stortinge. But as I said, we're open to real discussions with the pensioners' organizations. These discussions must be real. In it is that I cannot now say what the result of those discussions will cost. That is why I cannot rule out that, as a result of the discussions, we must make proposals to the Storting on increased appropriations and their collection. A clearer answer I find it difficult to give.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1155	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3002]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1171	The Committee has examined Document No. 8:79, from the representatives Siv Jensen, Øyvind Waksdal, Øyvind Korsberg and Gjermund Hagesetter, on changes in the petroleum tax system. The background and rationale of the proposal are the desire for fiscal measures as activity regulator for the Norwegian oil industry. I'm assuming that the Progress Party itself will explain the background, and I'm not going into it here. Our petroleum tax system is a central element of Norway's economy. The significant tax revenue, cash flow and employment provide the basis for a future continuation of the welfare society. At the same time, however, the tax system must also be competitive in relation to the increasingly globalised oil extraction and exploration market we are now seeing, with opportunities worldwide. The Petroleum Tax System has, among other things: for this reason, it has always been the subject of assessments and is also subject to constant changes, both larger and smaller. These included: The reason why the wide range of Petroleum Taxes was reduced, which highlighted the area and the theme very thoroughly in 2000. The size of the tax system then dealt with on a very broad scale, with thorough assessments at the back of the tax system, as late as 2001. The analyses from the sample at the time showed, among others: our current system is highly investment-friendly with its favourable investment-based deductions. As a result, individual investments that are socio-economically unprofitable before tax become business-economically profitable after tax. On the other hand, there is no reason to assume that socio-economic investment is not carried out because the tax system makes it economically unprofitable. The size of the population was also largely attributed to these assessments at the time of treatment in 2001. It has resulted in some adjustments in the tax system, both through that treatment and elsewhere. In particular, measures have been taken to reduce entry barriers for new companies and new operators in the petroleum industry. Changes have also been made such as phasing out the production charge, reducing the CO2 charge on the socket, access to interest-rate deficits, transfer of deficits to the acquiring company upon cessation of business on the socket. It is also natural to point out the changes proposed by the Government in Ot.prp. No 92, currently under consideration in the Committee, with regard to amendments to the so-called removal grant law, which makes removal costs associated with installations entitled to deduct within the ordinary petroleum tax system, in line with normal operating costs. In addition, if the proposal goes through, in the event of the cessation of a specific taxable activity, a refund will be made of the value of the tax on the carry-over of losses, which is noted from the removal of devices. These are changes that, in particular, will benefit new companies and smaller operators in a final stage production. The background to the changes that have been made on a continuous basis has been related to the changes brought about by the oil companies’ activities on the Norwegian base. Not least, some of the background has been that we are entering a mature phase in the harvesting of Norwegian oil resources. The level of investment in the Norwegian petroleum industry will remain at a high level in the years to come. Some projections of the business show that this can change. A marked reduction in search and extraction activity on Norwegian pedestal will be worrying and not desirable for many reasons. This is precisely why the investigations that the petroleum industry itself is now making in relation to both taxation and other activities are interesting and important contributions to the assessment of future activity on Norwegian soil. Both the review of the pace of new extraction permits and exploration sites, the overall general framework conditions for companies and, of course, the tax conditions are central areas for discussion. In particular, the future conditions and incentives for the extraction of small fields and so-called tail production will be important, including the assessments of the role of new and smaller operators on the Norwegian base, which is likely to be a central point in the phase we are entering. It is important to clarify that tax changes and adjustments will not be and should not be the only assessment theme. The majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment expressed its opinion during the examination of the St.meld. No 38 for 2001-2002 that the activities in smaller fields and so-called tail production could require adjustments to several of the framework conditions. The size has generally been relatively well concentrated on most changes to the framework conditions for this important industry, and the changes have always taken place after thorough and good investigations and hearings. I am therefore very pleased that the Committee has agreed on the setting in this Document No. The 8th proposal. And you've pretty much got your head together about the notes. Of course, the Minister of Finance's constructive position in his letter to the Committee on both assessments of the more general conditions also on the tax side and assessments of the sector's actual involvement in this area have been important for that meeting. I therefore recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1194	I just want to associate a few words with this setting. I think it is good that Document No. The 8-proposal was promoted. The rapporteur has done an excellent job of bringing together the Committee on this position, and the letter from the Minister of Finance also shows that this will now be discussed. The working party, together with the other parties, will ensure that this comes up for discussion in the autumn. It's in many ways a very serious -- I don't want to say a dramatic -- situation on Norwegian pedestal at the moment. There's a dramatic decline in employment. In the course of two to three years, employment has fallen by nearly 30 pst. It's dramatic for the drilling companies, etc. I would say that the interest shown, or lack of interest, by the different companies in the last round of allocation in the North Sea also testifies that we have to look at the system. I also want to point out what happened in the English sector, where a few years ago they had a similar situation, where the activity went down very much and the interest almost failed. They had to take stronger action with regard to the framework conditions in order to address it. That's exactly what the majority writes in the vote here today about tail production and extraction of small and marginal fields. I would say that a new tax system should be designed to give companies a greater reward by extending the production of existing installations coupled with stronger incentives to avoid overruns. Under today's system, the main part of the risk is related in particular to over-costs at the country's hand. And I don't want to say more about the Snow White debate that we've had! The incentive structure of the tax system should contribute to a rapid increase in activity on the Norwegian base. We also need to have it in the framework conditions we have to look at in the future. In particular, we are now looking at the infrastructure in the mature areas of the North Sea and northwards. The Barents Sea is coming here, and the Norwegian Sea is coming. – So here there is still a great potential in both oil and gas business, but it is quite serious what we see now, as I said, both in terms of interest and here employment, which goes back dramatically. Therefore, the framework conditions are important, and I have pointed out something that I think we should have with us on the further journey, and I sincerely hope that we get this matter up to a broader discussion for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1205	This is a very important matter in relation to the amount of value creation we can expect from the oil and gas industry in the future. The difference between the weather path and the long-term development path up to 2050 is estimated at more than NOK 2000 billion with the current oil price. If this option is disabled, additional Norwegian value creation etc. will be done. in the case of an improved petroleum tax system, the risk of oil and gas production entering the weather path is high. In this scenario, industry estimates that the Norwegian production of oil is falling to almost zero by the year 2020. This clearly shows the urgency of making changes to the petroleum tax system, which is more conducive to increasing the value creation and exploitation of existing oil fields. British cap example shows that improvements in the petroleum tax system give rise to increased activity. An example also shows that this activity is not only economically profitable, it is also socially viable. The party of progress is not always fully convinced that the other parties understand that tax changes are now urgent to stimulate further value creation on Norwegian continental shelf. Second times, on the other hand, we get the idea that understanding is in place. According to Stavanger Aftenblad 20. May, the Minister of Finance understands that something needs to be done. Here's what it says: «The Minister of Finance is concerned about the development of the oil industry and will see whether the tax system can be changed to speed up investment.» Furthermore, it says: ‘The development is more worrying than it should be, says Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss to the evening newspaper after a day in meetings with the Directorate of Oil, Statoil and the Landsforening of the Oil Industry.’ And on the other hand, «So you're open to changes in the tax that can give new business in old areas?" I'm open to everything, says Foss. However, it underlines that new tax rules must be «practical» and not complicated.’ This is a positive signal, and when we also base what the Minister of Finance wrote in a letter dated 26 March 2003, which says that he will come back to the Stortinge with an assessment of the output from the petroleum industry, where both the ‘Tax Project’ and the ‘Activity Project’ will be important recordings, there are two things that absolutely give rise to optimism. We perceive this in such a way that the Minister of Finance will propose new tax rules for the oil and gas industry, which will provide far more opportunities for increased value creation on Norwegian soil. We also argued that such an assessment would be submitted quickly to the Stortinget. In this way, we can be turned into action. In view of this, we agree with the Committee's position that the document will be annexed to the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1236	Like others, I would like to give tribute to the President-in-Office for a clean presentation. There is a presentation that SV has essentially been behind, although we initially have a slightly different approach to this problem. Let me link some comments to that, because it may also be necessary for the Council of State, which is going to get this for further treatment. In the SV’s view, there is no need for substantial changes in the tax system. You make very good money in the North Sea, especially with the current oil prices, and that means that the tax system we have in the oil sector is an all right system. You make good money, and the government makes good money. That's the way it should be. However, one should not be blind to any changes that may be necessary, but we do not see the need for major changes in the tax system. Changes were made a few years ago, to the benefit of the oil companies, and the changes that have followed have also been to the benefit of the oil companies. When the oil price was $9 a.m. In this case, substantial changes were made to the Stortinget, which the oil companies have benefited from. Even though the oil price was only $9 a.m. approx. One month, and then started to rise again, the changes that resulted from this have been there since. One of the major problems for both oil companies and Norwegian communities is that the level of investment in the North Sea varies greatly – from a top level of nearly 80 billion kroner to a bottom level of 50 billion kroner. Now I guess it's somewhere in the middle. It is clear that such a wide variation in the level of investment makes both the supply industry, society and oil companies toil. This means that for society, for oil companies and for the shipyards, it would be a great advantage if one could be able to phase in projects more predictable and longer-term in order to achieve a smoother flow of investment. It's a paradox when one day you have 3,000 hired workers in addition to one's own staff, like you. had at Aker Stord or at Kværner Rosenberg, and the next day there was no work at all. It is clear that this is a paradoxical situation and a terrible unfortunate situation for those who have their work and livelihoods in these companies. This is a major challenge, not just from the point of view of SV. I believe that more people will agree that this is a major challenge. We have sympathy to see if change can be found – small fields and tail production. There is obviously a lot of oil and gas available, but of such a volume that the large oil companies hardly see it profitable to go into it. The size has already decided to look at this, and we are positive about it – we think it is wise. I also think it is right to see whether the tax system can stimulate production in these small fields, or, for that matter, in fields that are to be closed down, where the big companies no longer see profits, but where creative small companies can probably do good money for many years. Let these brief comments be SV's view of this. So, essentially, we agree with the rapporteur's presentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1249	I praised in my first post the Advance Party for contributing to a coherent and common attitude. But I take the floor to comment on Mr. Hagesett's statement that he is uncertain about our understanding of the need. It corresponds a little to the comment of the Progress Party on the ‘non-will of the majority’ to establish the need for a review of the petroleum tax. We must be aware, as I said in my previous post, that it has just been reviewed, but we also point out that the investigation from the petroleum industry can provide a good basis for looking at this. It's going to be important recordings, but let's not forget that it's just what it is -- it's input from an industry. It must not deprive Stortinget of responsibility for an overall assessment of the tax liability. Tax is, after all, just one of the means of regulating the activity on the base, and there are many other aspects inside the picture. It's about changing methods. It could be a change in the image of the actor, which might be better adapted to a late stage than what you see in some parts of the socket now, new search ideas, new technology. There is also talk of compensation of employees and tariff systems, which in the North Sea is a very costly element. It's the Norwegian people who are the resource owner on Norwegian pedestal, and when you make changes, I think the order will be important. It would be boring to have an overfocus on tax adjustments, while there were other bottlenecks in e.g.. production, adaptation in marginal fields and so-called tailfields, which might have been what was to come first. That is why it is important to have a holistic view, and that is why there is no lack of willingness on the part of the majority. On the contrary, a responsible overall assessment is carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1256	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3003]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1272	The background to this case is a proposal from John I. Alvheim, Harald T. Nesvik and Øystein Hedstrøm that changes be made to the VAT laws so that no VAT is charged on the remuneration of equipment and services provided between self-employed dental practitioners in the same practice. When the service VAT reform was introduced on 1 July 2001, all services were subject to a duty-free turnover unless otherwise specified. However, in the management of the service tax reform, VAT law § 5 expressly made exemptions for VAT on health services. Derogations are further specified in Regulation No 15 June 2001, Regulation No. 119, on the restriction of the VAT exemption for health services. In case of major changes to our charging system, there will always be cases where there will be doubts about whether to be inside the system or outside. The matter we are dealing with today is a so-called borderline case, and it would lead to a lot more work for self-employed dental workers to find out what is chargeable, and what is not. The additional costs that this would give, both in increasing administration and charging to the state, could result in the patient becoming the one who eventually paid. There may also be questions as to whether the State’s additional income would cover the administration of the scheme. A collective committee believes that it is not a good idea that dental practice should be introduced into the VAT system because a marginal part of the business is subject to a fee. A joint committee is pleased that the Minister of Finance has started work with a view to obtaining an exemption for services provided between self-employed dental practitioners in the same practice. But other self-employed health professionals also organise themselves in the same way as dental practitioners. It can be, for example, be physiotherapists, chiropractors and dental nurses. The Committee believes that the introduction of specific schemes for individual groups of traders is unfortunate and that there must be clear limits to such an exemption. The Minister of Finance said in his reply to the Committee that he would come back with proposals for exemptions in connection with the 2004 State Budget. It has been asked, after the Committee has presented its opinion, whether or not the size of the dental practice will determine whether or not to obtain an exemption, in the light of a comment from the Committee, it is unlikely that a number of smaller dental practices will have to enter the VAT system because a marginal part of the activity is subject to a fee. As a left-wing representative, I would say that the left is the most busy of small and medium-sized enterprises, including in this case, but it has not been the intention of the case-speaker to limit this to the size of practice. I hope, therefore, that the comment will be interpreted as what he meant, and that I believe that a collective committee has also intended to produce, namely that it will create so much more work to find out what is subject to a charge, and that this additional work will, of course, cause greater burdens for self-employed people, including those less. There is a mass committee behind the setting, to a great deal of joy for dental patients and dentists, and it's been meant to clean up something that could give more VAT on health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1291	Just a few brief comments on the occasion of the case. This is a case which has been updated by an interpretation from the Tax Directorate of 1 July 2002, which stated that VAT legislation must be understood in such a way that remuneration for the rental of dental equipment and patient portfolios and goodwill exchanged between dentists in the same practice is subject to VAT. Since 1970 there has been VAT on the rental of equipment. However, the authorities have not chosen to levy such a fee for rental between dentists, because there was no consistency between proceeds and the resources that had to be used to administer the scheme. It is also technically very complicated to calculate the fee for each of the partial benefits between dentists. We are therefore pleased that there is agreement between the Committee and the Minister for Finance that it is not useful that small dental practices, and, to some extent, something greater, have to enter into the charging system because a very marginal part of the activity is subject to charging. This is no big deal, but it's like many other small things we're dealing with, important to them. Cleaning up the 2004 budget will be a pleasure not only for the dentists concerned, but also for the patients, who at last had to pay this extra cost. In conclusion, I would just like to say that it is gratifying that all parties have left tax policy makers lying and have had a pragmatic attitude in this matter, so that we can now get a sensible solution. It must be a minimum that a charge, not least a purely fiscal charge, has a positive proceeds.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1306	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3004]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1319	The store is ready to go to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1326	During the debate, Mr Valle has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. There will be a vote on these proposals first. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Rules of Procedure of the Storting shall be amended as follows: The fifth paragraph shall be replaced by the following:One third of the members of the Committee may require the holding of a committee hearing in control cases under Section 21 or the collection of documents from the responsible State Council under the last sentence of Section 49(a) of the second paragraph.§ 21 in the first paragraph, the third sentence shall be replaced by the following:The hearings shall be held and the request for a hearing shall be made when at least one third of the members of the Committee so request.New paragraph 49(a) in the second paragraph shall be replaced by the following:Documents which must be kept secret for the sake of the security of the State, or the personal circumstances of individuals, may be requested only if a majority of the representatives participating in the voting vote vote vote. The same applies to strictly internal working documents of a sitting or former government [[R-notes, etc.]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Rules of Procedure for open hearings shall be amended as follows: the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 2 shall be replaced by the following: The Central Party has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1457	The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1500	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Mr Harald T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The basic amount used as a starting point for social security payments in 2003 is NOK 54 789.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1527	Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party and the Centre Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2003 budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Crones260075 Repayment of under-regulation of the basic amount in 2001-2002, estimate appropriations, allocated at 858 000 000’» [[new]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-28.ana.ud191e1587	There is an alternative proposal, No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The guidelines for social security arrangements are amended to read as follows:In advance of discussions with pension organisations, the Government proposes to the Stortingen to regulate the basic amount of social security.The regulation of the basic amount usually takes place on 1 May of each year.The aim of the regulation shall be to provide pensioners with a social security pension with an income trend in line with developments in working life and in line with the principles and objectives underlying the implementation of the income policy framework. For the purpose of the adjustment, the total expected income development of wage earners shall be in the regulatory year following adjustment of the basic amount of the last year difference between the actual growth of the basic amount and actual wage growth. It has to be corrected for special circumstances. The expected income development for economically active workers is determined on the basis of the total income balance for wage earners. It shall be accompanied by a background material showing the figure for expected income development of the economically active building and other relationships that have affected the determination of the basic amount. The material shall also show how income trends have been for occupational and pensioners in the last year and in the later years. Overview of developments in the total number of economically active persons is based on other evidence on the evolution of earnings from the technical calculation selection for the determination of income.»
