ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e28	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Advance Party, 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e37	It should not surprise anyone that the Progress Party and I are well pleased with the present position, which finally gives patients legal rights to treatment. This is a new breakthrough for the Promotion Party’s legal health policy for users. The proposal for a legal right to be dealt with which professional time limits for such treatment are exceeded promoted by the Progress Party and the Right during the initial examination of the Odelstingen law on 10 June 1999, which the majority would not be involved in at the time. Now it is no surprise to me and to the Progress Party that it takes time before the majority of the Storting or Odelsting will admit that the proposals of the Progress Party are actually sensible, but such sensible proposals should preferably be made by other party constellations, and then the matter is really fine. Just like that in this case. The Progress Party may live with this, but it would probably have been an advantage for a very large number of patients if the Odelstinget had adopted the proposal of the Progress Party on the legal right to treatment at the first reading of the case. Chapter 1.2 sets out the relationship between national legislation on specialist health services and the EEA Agreement. The present setting appears to be unproblematic in this way. In relation to free hospital choice, there are two changes in the attitude, namely that § 2 will now also include children and young people under psychiatric treatment, which is now given the possibility of free hospital choice in relation to hospitals and district psychiatric centres. The second aspect of the law that has been amended is that the free choice of hospitals should also cover all private owned and operated hospitals that have entered into agreements with regional health establishments. The progress party might wish that the requirement of agreement with regional health businesses had been removed, but at that time accepts the law as it now stands in the suspension. The provision that free hospital choice should also include private hospitals and clinics leads to enterprises being responsible for the funding, and therefore they are dependent on making agreements with private service providers for the purpose of the reimbursement settlement. It is also important to draw attention to the fact that, according to private providers, in a competitive situation, free hospital choice does not preclude the participation of hospitals abroad in the competition. Chapter 1.4 details the difference in the patient rights issue between the current law and the new law in place. Paragraph 2-1 states in this paragraph that the specialist healthcare service is required to set a specific individual assessment deadline for the patient to be granted the right to the necessary health care. I would also like to refer to decisions taken in Stortinget in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 40 for 2001-2002, on the protection of children and young people, where the Stortinge took the following decisions: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that children and young people with child protection measures should be legally entitled to treatment for drug use and psychiatry.’ This has been followed up in the setting in Section 2-1. This chapter also specifies the consequences of patients exceeding the professionally agreed deadline and that patients will then be entitled to treatment at other public hospitals, private hospitals and clinics, including any treatment abroad. The position is consistently unanimous, with the exception of paragraphs 2 to 7 on the application of the Administrative Act, where the majority, all except the Socialist Left Party, maintains that the rules of the Administrative Act do not apply to decisions taken under Chapter 2. The Socialist Left also has its own proposal in the clause ‘to draw up a treatment guarantee whereby children and young people with child protection measures are given a legal right to treatment for drug use and psychiatry’. Chapter 1.5 sets out, in general, the responsibility for the payment of treatment abroad in which the Patient Rights Act applies, and it is established by the Department, which has also received the agreement of the Committee, that the liability for payment in this context will be placed on health businesses. Chapter 1.6 deals with the future Board of Appeal in relation to infringements of the Law of Rights. The Committee agrees with the Ministry that the Board of Appeal should continue to be the county doctor, who also deals with complaints in the current system. In the case of a complaint against decisions on treatment abroad, the Rikstrygdeverket is as per. the current date has this task. The Ministry recommends that the scheme continue as it is today, with this responsibility assigned to the Rikstrygdeverket. It is also worth noting that a new phase is proposed in the Patient Rights Act § 7-6, which makes the Administrative Act applicable to complaints in the same way as it applies to county doctors. The Ministry considers the extra costs of the law on free hospital choice, which also includes private hospitals, to be marginal, since practice today is already such that hospitals that have contracts with companies are used in the context of free hospital choice. The costs of purchasing services to cover patients’ subsidiary rights to necessary health care abroad or with other private actors, the Ministry considers that the regional health establishments should fully cover them. The Committee has agreed with the Ministry in these respects. For its part, the Progress Party will assume that, for some time in the future, with still long public health cows, expenditure may be slightly higher than provided for in the proposal and in the present position, and that one should take it into account in the future government budgets. The Committee has stated in its Opinion that the legalisation of patients’ rights with a specified time limit for treatment is an important means of achieving the objective of equal access to good quality healthcare for the whole population. For my part and on behalf of the Progress Party, I refer to the very difficult economic situation in which health businesses are now in and which creates problems in relation to this for the 2004 operational year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e70	In a modern and well-functioning healthcare system, it is important that resources are used efficiently and as flexibly as possible. This presents significant governance challenges for health businesses, which in their planning of both quality and capacity must take into account patients who are more aware of their rights and opportunities. The majority decided a few years ago, as the rapporteur explained, a significant improvement and strengthening of patients’ rights. It is very important for the opening-up of public health services from both patients, patient organisations and the general public that patients both feel and are actually well cared for in the meeting with the health services. It is also important that the public health system continues to develop, so that the whole population, irrespective of residence and economy, has access to equivalent and quality health services. The Workers' Party is in favour of strengthening patients' rights, as is now the case with the changes Odelstinget adopts today in the Patient Rights Act. The Labour Party believes that it is part of the development of rights that the right to free choice of hospitals becomes effective and that equality values with increased freedom of choice and a good geographical distribution of health services are and become important. In this context, it must of course be emphasised that the patient cannot choose the level of treatment. The working party considers it reasonable that free hospital choice should also cover all private owned and operated hospitals that enter into an agreement with regional health care establishments on free hospital choice. At a time when waiting time has been too long and queues too long, it is important to make the most of the overall treatment capacity. In the treatment of the Patient Rights Act for the first time, the right to necessary health care was central. Now, the Patient Rights Act makes it more precise, and it better clarifies the premises for setting an individual deadline for providing the necessary health care. It is a strength for patients to provide the most concrete time for the patient to receive the necessary medical care at the latest. This is important for patients' real complaints, as the law describes. It is also important for the patient’s right to treatment that the patient can receive treatment abroad if necessary. I think it is positive that the rights to treatment in psychiatry are strengthened by the fact that a person in childhood and youth psychiatry is given free hospital choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e85	The amendments to the Patient Rights Act Odelstinget are invited to adopt today, will strengthen patients’ right to treatment and increase patients’ freedom of choice. The introduction of a statutory right to the necessary health care provided within an individual fixed medical period will ensure patients the health care they require without undue delay. The significance of the change will be a revolution within the healthcare system in view of the individual’s right to individual treatment and will, together with free hospital choice, provide the worn-out term ‘patient in the centre’ with real content. The right to treatment by private institutions or abroad at the public expense of failure to comply with the deadline will strengthen the patient’s position of power over the healthcare system and increase the security of disease treatment. Those parts of the healthcare system that do not already do so are forced to focus more on the patient and on patient treatment. And the time when patients are at risk of being regarded as an order reserve with little or no possibility of moving on should definitely be over by a legal right to treatment and with real opportunities to choose private and foreign alternatives. A faster treatment of patients will also in many cases require better and simpler treatment and reduce the risk of patients becoming dissatisfaction, which will be both a benefit for individuals and a saving for society. More rapid treatment will also be a major benefit for all national employers with sickly registered workers in hospital queues. For the Right, the free choice of hospitals and the right to an individual deadline for treatment have always been two key elements in strengthening patient rights. In the examination of the Patient Rights Act in 1999, the proposal for an individual deadline was also promoted, but was downgraded to the right and the vote of the Progress Party. That is why it is particularly gratifying that there is now a unanimous committee in favour of such a law-making process. In the formation of the Cooperative Government, the Government Declaration, also known as the Sem Declaration, clearly stated that the Government will legislate patients’ right to treatment within individual deadlines laid down on a medical basis. That was one of the most important points for the Right. I'm glad that this point is now fulfilled, and that the Right has had an impact on one of its most important health policy issues. The statutory right to free hospital choice has been important to ensure the participation of patients. Therefore, it is good that it is now further expanded. By including patients in paediatric and juvenile psychiatry, the use of resources in this field could be improved. Special attention should be paid to improving access to treatment in an area where there is a clear objective. Furthermore, it is good that free hospital choice should also cover all groups of private hospitals if they have entered into agreements with regional health establishments, irrespective of who owns them. There is a need to exploit the total resources of the healthcare system, whether public or private, that are behind them. This will contribute to the extension of the freedom of choice proposed under the free choice of hospitals. For the patient rights law to function properly, it is important that patients are made aware of what is in the law of rights and opportunities, so that the strengthening of patient rights becomes real to everyone and not just to those who are able to inform themselves in the law. These aspects are addressed by informing the patient and the referring physician that the patient is entitled to the necessary health care and of the deadline set. Furthermore, the patient shall also be informed of access to the complaint, the time limit for lodging a complaint and how the patient should proceed in the event of a complaint. The individual treatment period becomes effective by enabling the patient to request treatment at another public or private institution, domestic or foreign, on behalf of the public, in the event of a breach of the individual deadline. A patient rights law that guarantees the right to treatment within a medically sound period and that gives patients the right to free hospital choice, together with the new health reform, could lead to a healthcare system that everyone wants, a healthcare system that treats each patient individually, and each institution depends on effective, high-quality patient treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e113	Proper treatment at the right level must be the goal of all patient-oriented treatment. If the Patient Rights Act can help to ensure this, it is good – then it is a good law, and then the law helps in a good way to strengthen patients’ rights. Based on the previous speaker, I record that it is initially taken for granted. But it doesn't take SV for granted. In order to ensure patients’ rights in a good way and to avoid adverse outcomes from the law that are bureaucratic and that in time can eliminate patients’ rights, it is quite clear that there will be a challenge in the design of the Patient Rights Act and the way it is practised in the future. An example of this was the design given by the law on the part of the department. §§ 2-1 and 2-2 would have followed the administrative law and thus led to a significant red tape. Health professionals had to have taken into account the fact that the decision could have been appealed, that they had a documentation obligation, and in due course, they could have been presented in legal proceedings in a way that would have meant that they had to have been designed quite differently from a standard journal. In order to avoid such consequences, the Committee has stressed that the application of the Administrative Act should not apply to the relevant paragraphs, and the Ministry has also argued in a letter of reply to the SV that it is reasonable that they should not apply. But it makes some of the challenges you face in terms of the Patient Rights Act visible. When Stortinget in his time treated the patient rights law as well as the Health Care Act, I said from the Chair that in many ways the Patient Rights Act gives patients rights, while the Health Care Act gives health professionals duties. If you develop such a concept too far, you can have a conflict situation between health professionals and patients who are not fit for good, that is, that you put so strong leadership in the freedom of health professionals that you can't get rid of the queues in a creative way. You will be more concerned about having your back free in case you have to answer in court. It's a challenge we're facing. Another challenge we face is that we do not go too far in saying that if we do not receive treatment in Norway within a reasonable time, we should have treatment abroad. The consequence of that, if it was volume, is in many ways that we use resources to downgrade local supply. Where we see that there are weaknesses in the Norwegian health system, it must be much more important that we bet on local anchoring, that the health services are allocated the resources needed to bring down the cows than that we are isolated so concerned with patients' rights in this law that we start sending people abroad and using resources to treat people there, when we could instead have strengthened the local offer. However, with the changes that have now been made in relation to the fact that the Administrative Act is not applicable to Sections 2-1 and 2-2, SV supports the proposals that exist, with one exception. We have underlined that we want to review the decision taken by Stortinget in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 40 for 2001-2002, on the protection of children and young people. The Decision reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that children and young people with child protection measures should be legally entitled to treatment for drug use and psychiatry.’ Here we point to the group that is perhaps the most vulnerable of all groups to be treated in this community, namely children and young people who are under child protection measures and who also have a psychiatric diagnosis and, where appropriate, drug problems. And then we won't be able to agree to the decision you have already taken, namely that this group, which is perhaps the most vulnerable of all, should be given priority! It makes some of the dilemma of this Patient Rights Act visible, namely that when action is to be targeted on the basis of the law, it is not possible to implement the measures. And I have to say for myself that I am disappointed that we cannot stand on that decision and ensure that this particular group should have a statutory right. We know that the waiting time for children and young people today is up for 100 days to get treatment within the psychiatry for conditions that are so serious that many should have been in immediately. I refer to the proposal SV is included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e137	The representative Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the proposal he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e140	In the last Question Time, the Prime Minister stated that the Co-operation Government complies with the Sem declaration step by step. Today, a step has been taken in the right direction. For patients, this is a brand day. Following an overall assessment of clinical, technical and medical evaluations, an individual deadline for treatment shall be set. If the deadline is not met, the patient shall be offered treatment by private institutions or abroad for the account of the public. This becomes a legal right to treatment within individual deadlines laid down on a medical basis. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that one should give priority to those who need it most through individual deadlines. This means that the sickest patients have to go first. At the same time, such a deadline also states that no one should wait longer for medical assistance than that which is medically sound. It is very important that patients be informed about when the treatment period expires. They must also be informed of the right to apply, the time limit for appeal and the Board of Appeal. The Christian People's Party believes it is right that complaints about the decision of the specialist health service on a patient's right to treatment abroad should be dealt with by an independent complainant. Until now, the Patient Rights Act § 2-4 has given patients the right to choose which public hospital or district psychiatric centre to investigate and treat them. This has guaranteed patients freedom of choice and participation. Health South was early out with this scheme. It has been shown that most patients want closeness to the treatment site. Nevertheless, freedom of choice is important for the Christian People's Party. We also see that resources in the hospital sector are being exploited in this way. The current amendment of the law results in private owned and operated hospitals agreeing with regional health establishments being included in the free choice of hospitals. The Christian People's Party believes that private hospitals, and especially those run by non-governmental organisations, are an important resource and a complement to public health. We are pleased that child and youth psychiatry is also included in the free choice of hospitals. It shows that these patients are being taken seriously and treated in the same way as other patients. It is an important principle that the entire population should have equal access to good quality healthcare. The change in the law that we are dealing with today makes this possible. Different patient bridges have been established abroad for several years. My impression is that the vast majority of patients have been very satisfied with such a scheme. More difficult it has been when you have applied individually. The legislation has been complicated and difficult to find out. The right to treatment abroad in the absence of adequate medical assistance in Norway now forms part of the patient’s rights. The Christian People's Party supports this, and believes it is good both for patients and for the medical profession, who are thus given new competences.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e166	Some of those who represent the right-hand side of Norwegian policy have expressed that this is a happy day — and that is well to the point. There is a long-standing law on free hospital choice and individual treatment deadlines, which is now being clarified and adopted. But I'm not sure if all the tribute that has come into play to these legislative formulations is entirely justified. It is not automatic for free hospital choice and individual deadlines to provide faster and better treatment. But it's clear that if you have enough resources, this could be right. One must be aware that the Patient Rights Act provides that the right to the necessary health care is limited to the capacity and economic resource of the publicly funded specialist healthcare area of the country. This makes it very important to stress that when we get this law, there must be sufficient resources to fulfil our intentions. It is also important, in the opinion of the Centre Party, that we do not now tailor and specialise institutions in such a way as to go beyond the emergency medical supply in the districts. It is important to have a patient rights law, but it is also important that you have an emergency medical offer nearby when the minutes count. I also want to say a little about the treatment abroad, which is also affected by this law. The system is being reformed and, in the opinion of the Centre Party, it is important to follow the development of foreign treatment so that it can be equally accurate and give the same offer to all, whether administered and managed differently than before. I also want to comment on what the representative Ballo was in relation to the design of the law §§ 2-1 and 2-2. We were in doubt about how to interpret this in relation to the administrative law. We have received an answer to that from the department, which was also not quite clarifying in my opinion, where, among other things, it was. see: ‘The Ministry is... of the opinion that the procedural rules of the Administrative Act do not apply in principle and should not apply.’ I will give tribute to the majority of the committee who have tried to clear something in this way in the form that these two paragraphs have changed somewhat. Like the representative of SV Ballo, I would also like to signal on behalf of the Central Party that when we were not supported that this should have been clarified, we will support the majority of the Committee in relation to these paragraphs. Finally, I would like to say something that does not exactly go for joy, but which is a little disappointing in relation to this matter. In the case of children and young people who should be entitled to treatment with child protection measures, whether in the case of psychiatry or drug abuse. We had hoped that the decision that was taken in Stortinget in connection with St.meld. No 40 for 2001–02, had been followed up on this occasion, so that this category of children and young people had been entitled to equal treatment with other children and young people. There are very long waiting times within psychiatry. 90–100 days is a long time to wait when you are mentally ill, not least for children. That's why I think it would have been a right priority, when you first talk about the priority of free hospital choice, that this group had been included and got that offer now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e186	The legislative proposal, as set out in the suspension, will give rights to a treatment offer either privately or abroad that has not been treated within a reasonable time by the public health service. For the benefit of patients, I am pleased that the Committee supports this, and it is a follow-up to the Sem Declaration. The overall number of patients is treated within a medically sound time and with a good time margin. However, it turns out that some patients are not getting their right. The bill will help them, and it is for these patients that this is a joyous day. I also believe that representatives of the representative of the so-called right-hand side will agree. Such a scheme will also assist health care. A set deadline will make it more visible and visible to healthcare even if a patient is not followed up and does not receive the treatment to be provided in time. Thus, the public health service has an incentive to strengthen the work of giving proper priority, both between patient groups and between individual patients, so that patients do not have to wait irresponsibly for a long time for necessary health care. To put it at the forefront, I would say that the Committee invites Odelstinget to adopt a system that improves the position of patients at two levels. Firstly, patients themselves are given a new right and, secondly, that this right becomes a risk to public health when it comes to the proper use of resources and ensure that patients receive an offer within a medically sound time. I assume that we all agree that this bill is not about sending patients abroad as long as they can get help in Norway within a reasonable time. As Minister of Health, I have to say that I am very pleased that the majority of the Committee does not agree to postpone the legislative process. I think it would have been a pity if the law were to be postponed – to the detriment of patients – because there is so much doubt about the formal procedure for the health care assessment of the right to necessary health care and the setting of an individual deadline. I agree that the relationship between procedural rules in the administrative law and health law is difficult. I therefore think it is commendable that the majority of the Committee has cut through and solved the problem by making it quite clear that healthcare should use its resources in patient treatment, rather than in legal proceedings. I am also pleased that the Social Committee has followed up the Government's proposal to bring together the responsibility for providing the necessary treatment abroad at regional health establishments. This means that the financial responsibility lies with the enterprises, either because the patient has to receive treatment abroad due to a long waiting period, possibly exceeding the prescribed treatment period, or because of a lack of competence in Norway. A shared financial responsibility between enterprises and social security, as we have today, is unfortunate both in terms of priority between treatment provision and patients, and in terms of financial resource management. In addition, it has been difficult for patients to deal with several parallel schemes. In particular, it has appeared to be unfair and incomprehensible for some patients that strict priorities are being given when the social security funds treatment abroad due to a lack of medical competence in Norway, while in recent years it has been possible to obtain treatment abroad through the grant of the Storting to the so-called patient bridge, without the same strict selection criteria. I believe that the current legislative proposal will improve governance, while the criteria for treatment abroad will be seen as clearer and fairer. In the governance document of regional health companies, I have assumed that private enterprises will continue to contribute to the provision of healthcare in the overall supply to the population. In the disposal of available resources, regional health establishments shall seek equivalent treatment of their health establishments and private establishments. I see it as a support for this policy line that the bill, as indicated in the vote, extends the nationwide free hospital choice scheme to private hospitals that have an agreement with regional health care companies on such a free hospital choice. Following the adoption of the majority position of the Social Committee, new procedures are required for enterprises, including: in order to ensure that patients are provided with the necessary information on their rights, time limits, remedies, etc. In addition, undertakings must conclude agreements with private hospitals on free hospital choice. The Swedish Social Security Agency must organise its work to provide patients with treatment in private or abroad. I will ensure the implementation of the law as soon as these preparations are made. The patient bridge itself will be continued as from 1 January 2004, as provided for in the budget proposal, as one of the regional health companies' caring tasks. Finally, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the Committee in its position has fully adhered to the Government's proposal for amendments to the Patient Rights Act. I believe that the time is ripe for such an extension of patients' rights. There's a new step towards shifting power in healthcare from the system to the one for which the system is for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e205	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 166]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e221	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e230	Ot. pp. No 103 for 2002-2003, on the Act amending Law No 4 July 1991 47 on marriage, etc. is a follow-up to the Government’s Action Plan against Forced Marriage of 2002 and a follow-up to the Action Plan against Forced Marriage of 1998. [[Actual law]] The legislative proposals have been subject to a wide-ranging consultation and have received broad support from the consultation bodies. Preventing and combating coerciveness is a social issue and therefore also a social responsibility. But the individual cannot be relieved of liability, and it is ultimately the person exercising coercion who is responsible. Therefore, the need to have good practice and effective action is becoming urgent when the crisis is acute, but the longer-term work in relation to the environments in which forced marriages occur is no less important. Persons and organisations rooted in minority communities play an important role in this context, both in the pursuit of awareness-raising activities within and in channelling their experiences to the auxiliaries. Therefore, better communication between authorities and the environment affected by the issue of coercion is important and necessary. In Norway, all shall have equal rights and obligations. At the same time, one must have the freedom to assert one's values, to follow cultural traditions and to practice one's faith. The framework shall be Norwegian law and fundamental human rights. It means that everyone should also have the freedom to make his own choices and to decide for himself his own life. It is an important step in the right direction that an overall committee with this setting supports the Government’s proposal for measures to prevent and combat forced marriage. The Committee is in charge of collecting testing of marriage conditions at the Folkeregisteret and at the Norwegian foreign official abroad. The main aim is to better control whether the bridesmaids meet the conditions. It is added that if the conditions for marriage are met, a marriage certificate shall be issued, which shall be valid for four months. When a marriage certificate can be presented, approved marriages can take place during the wedding ceremony. In order to combat forcible marriages, the county council may review the validity of marriages before the courts. Forced marriages shall be capable of being dissolved. However, I assume that this possibility of legal dissolution is used with caution and in cooperation with at least one of the parties, including the parties. in the interests of the individual, his/her legal rights and any children. The Government also proposes a new provision in the Children’s Act which clarifies that parents or others cannot enter into binding marriage agreements on behalf of their children. Legislation on this principle will be a useful tool in disclosing environments where such abuses occur. Human-Ethical Associations are given this right of marriage in the same way as registered religious communities and courts. This is something that the Human-Ethical Federation has been fighting for for for many years, and it is a pleasure that the Odelstinget today will give them this right unanimously. The Human-Ethical Federation represents an important alternative to the religious communities. As rapporteur of the case, I think it is extra nice that the Human-Ethical Association is now given the opportunity to offer its members and others who want to do so, celebration under the auspices of the Federation. The Committee has been informed that the Human-Ethical Association has also applied for the right to manage the conclusion of partnerships. I must stress here that it is the marriage law Odelstinget deals with today. The changes made are primarily to prevent coercion. The right of the Human-Ethical Federation to enter into a partnership should therefore be seen in the context of any possible treatment of the Partnership Act. With the amendments adopted by Odelstinget today, an important and exciting work is being undertaken both to prevent and combat forced marriage. I think it is incredibly important for the Government to follow closely the implementation and consequences of the changes adopted today, especially with regard to the system of official testing of marriage conditions. It is also important for the Government to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner with an assessment of the effectiveness and effectiveness of this measure. Finally, I wish the Minister for the Family to be happy with this work!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e258	The Committee believes that public testing of marriage conditions for all can effectively address the problems that have unfortunately been revealed in our successive multicultural societies. Unfortunately, in terms of understanding the religious communities that represent the immigrant population, there have been some sad discoveries. This law makes it easier to ensure that testers are better informed about the Norwegian legislation. A more thorough check must be carried out on whether one of the brides is already married and that Norwegian marriage age is followed. We all agree that coercion is something other than arranged marriages, but there are some very thin dividing lines here. The question of whether or not there is coercion will be determined whether or not the proposal for eczema really gives the young person an opportunity to say no. If the arranged marriage is concluded because either or both of the parties are under pressure and this pressure is so undue that they feel that they do not have a choice, it would, in the Committee's view, be punishable. I repeat: forced marriage is prohibited under Norwegian law. This law is important to prevent that. The Labour Party believes that the freedom to live their lives in interaction with others provides a good society. We all have a responsibility to create a good life for those who flee from a life of war and persecution. However, we demand that all those living in Norway comply with Norwegian laws and regulations, and it is therefore prohibited with coercion and sexual mutilation in our country. Here neither faith nor culture shall be set above Norwegian law. The rapporteur has explained that the marriage law, which we are dealing with today, is different from the partnership law. But today, therefore, the Human-Ethical Union is given the right of marriage, as the only community of life's views. I have registered that the Human-Ethical Association is dissatisfied that the connection does not have the opportunity to carry out partnership. We can, of course, very much agree that the human-ethical federation's desire to exercise the right to enter into a partnership should be met. But this cannot be adopted or dealt with in connection with the law we are dealing with today. The Stortinget may have to come back to the page.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e271	The Progress Party is pleased that we are now making the legislative changes necessary to prohibit forced marriage in Norway, on the basis of the proposal that was discussed both in the Municipal Committee, in the Family Committee and here in the Stortinget just before we left each other this summer. The background of the proposal is well known to most people, that they had a number of cases where girls and boys had to go in hiding to avoid being coerced. We don't want young people living in Norway to have to break up with family and friends in order to escape coercion and an unhappy life. Immigrants and refugees coming to Norway come from a variety of different cultures that have a woman’s vision that does not fully harmonize with Norwegian. The Norwegian view is firmly anchored in a western and universal view of individual rights and equivalency. I also refer here to the UN Declaration of Human Rights. When we now deal with the issue of the prohibition of coercion, it is important for the Progress Party to include arranged marriages in the same legal paragraphs, because it is difficult to distinguish between what is coercion and what is arranged. There may be a lot of social pressure in accepting an arranged marriage, which the Progress Party will avoid. The fact that the family finds a spouse can quickly be felt as a duty to the person in question. We therefore propose that the legal text be adapted in such a way as not to discriminate between marriages and marriages. It wasn't long since a young man stood up on TV and told about his experience of an arranged marriage, where it was really the brother who was going to marry, but he backed out in the last second, and the younger brother had to take over the bride, because otherwise the family would lose face. This just proves that the rise in the border between arranged marriages and forced marriages is difficult. In our country, which sets man's freedom to choose for himself, it must be avoided that some make such lifelong choices against their own will, even though it is called arranged marriage. That's why I want to warn the majority against trying to nuance when it comes to this. Although the intentions are certainly good, families are allowed to put proper pressure on young people to make their partner choices. Does the majority of the committee know what it's doing? Is the majority sure that no one suffers congestion and that this does not have consequences that are suspicious of those we saw in the context of forced marriage? I'm simply asking because I don't want young people to be on the run, and because I want everyone free and on an independent basis to make the choices that relate to their own future. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e288	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e291	Today, we are examining changes to the marriage law to follow up the government’s action plan against coercion from 2002. The proposed measures include: several measures to prevent forced marriage. Marriage shall be based on volunteering and understanding of the practical, family and legal consequences of marriage. Forced marriage is a marriage that takes place without the individual being able to choose whether to marry or to whom he or she wants to marry. Forced marriages shall not be accepted. Forced marriage is punishable by Norwegian law. Choosing whom to marry is a fundamental human right and in line with the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In particular, children have the right to safeguard measures by being physically and mentally immature. The government's proposal is a new provision in the Children's Act, Section 30a, which says that an agreement is not binding on parents or others on behalf of children. This is a clarification of Norwegian law. SV is pleased that mandatory testing of marriage conditions is now being introduced as a tool to reduce the number of forced marriages. If the public register refuses approval, the bridesmaid may complain to the county council. The county council shall, in the opinion of the majority of the committee, be given the jurisdiction and authority to bring an action for the validity of the marriage, and other public bodies shall have the opportunity to ask the county council to consider the matter. We also disagree that other public authorities should not be obliged to disclose information in the event of suspicion of forced marriage, of bigamies and of marriages entered into with minors, or of any other relevant breach of this law. SV would point out that the changes proposed in the marriage law will help those who are strong enough to bear the burden of possibly losing contact with the family. However, the government's proposed changes have little to offer those who have a strong social pressure on so-called arranged marriages and who cannot bear the loss of family-environment contact. In this context, it's almost a coercion. I should like to refer to the examination of Document No. 8:50 for 2001-2002 where SV said that marriage was to be carried out only by notary publicus based on civil marriage. Those who want religious ceremonies related to marriage also arrange for this. Although SV said so when processing Document No. 8:50, we are not going to vote against the proposed changes, but will clarify that the changes that now approve wedding rights for seremoni leaders or life-vision societies must also apply to the Partnership Act. There have been reports from the Human-Ethical Federation, which say they have applied for an opportunity to carry out partnership. It should be a natural consequence of the change we are now making in the marriage law, and I expect a proposal from the Council of State for such a change in the partnership law. But I am of course fully aware that today we are dealing with the marriage law.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e304	The left is not in the committee. Therefore, I will come with some views on this matter which is leading here today. The left agrees with the Committee's position on the matter. We are pleased that the Government is following up the Action Plan against Forced Marriage, and we share its views on the definition and delineation of arranged marriages. Obviously there may be unclear transitions, but as a legislator, we have to draw a clear limit. In our view, the party of progress does not. We're also happy that life-vision organizations get the same rights as threat societies to perform weddings, given today's marriage law, or else. That being said, the Left is a follower of a joint legal conclusion of marriage and partnership, to replace the ecclesiastical marriage. Thus, it would be up to each and every community of trust and life to decide on its own markings and ceremonies. The Human Ethics Association has also applied for membership. Now this is not the theme today, but from the point of view of the Left, we do not see the need for this. We believe that partnership law should be based on the principle that applies today to marriage law, not vice versa. The establishment of partnership is the responsibility of a civil regime, but there is nothing to prevent trust and life-seeking societies from organising their own ceremonies as well. The left joins the Government and the plural in the view of the countyman's ability to raise a case, with the remarks of caution in the practice given. The left will thus also vote for Section 16a.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e319	I am pleased that the majority of the committee supports the various proposals for changes to the marriage law and the child law. The government is trying to do this, for example: to prevent coercion through different angles of incidence. Forced marriages are already prohibited, as was made clear by a change in the penal code that entered into force on 1 September of this year. More and more religious communities of different religious, cultural, ethnic and linguistic backgrounds want to carry out marriages, and get the right to do so. A mandatory official test of the conditions of marriage will lead to better control and more uniform handling of such matters. As a result, marriages carried out in Norway without testing by the public register will not be valid. With the changes, marriages can concentrate entirely on the ceremonial and religious aspects of the marriage. The proposed change is likely to result in fewer marriages being made in breach of the rules and could also contribute positively to the fight against forced marriage. It is not permissible for parents to conclude agreements requiring minors to marry. The new provision in the Children’s Act that a marriage agreement on behalf of a child is not binding is merely a clarification of the Norwegian law in force. However, I believe that the change will be an important tool in disclosing environments where this occurs. The Government has proposed that the county council be given the competence to sue the existence or absence of a marriage, for example. in the case of issues relating to the existence of a bigami, or whether a marriage concluded abroad is contrary to Norwegian law, e.g.: due to low marriage age. The county council is also allowed to bring proceedings by means of possible forcible marriages. I have noted that the Committee agrees that the provision must be used with caution. The Ministry will examine in more detail whether the county can help someone out of a coercion in a different and simpler way than in legal proceedings. I also record that the majority of the committee states that the competence to bring an action for invalidity shall not be subject to the wish of either or both parties. I do not disagree with this principle, but nevertheless believe that the starting point in the case of forced marriage should be that proceedings should be brought in agreement with the parties. In fact, the person who has been forced will have a major impact on the outcome of the case. In many cases it may be difficult to get sufficient information on the matter if he does not want the county council to take action. The purpose of allowing the county State to bring proceedings in the cases of forced marriage is primarily to take account of the person who has been subject to the coercion. I have also noticed that the majority of the Committee asks the Department to look at other formulations of the Innst intentions. O. No 132 for 2002-2003, which is designed to ensure both the right of Muslim women to divorce and the respect for marriage, which is a lifelong commitment between two parties. The Government will further consider how best to respond to this request.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e332	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e335	One of the things I was talking about in my post is that the Human-Ethical Association has applied for an opportunity to manage the conclusion of a partnership. I challenged the Council of State something in my post, but I don't think she took this up in her post. Although we are not dealing with the Partnership Act now, this is a very topical issue. I want to signal that SV will propose that the Partnership Act be amended in line with the Marriage Act, but perhaps we will not promote the proposal if the Council of State has a positive response.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e343	The point of this case, which concerns marriage law, is to equate life-viewing societies with registered religious communities. In fact, it has not been intended to change the partnership law, as the representative Hansen was about to do. It is true today that other religious communities do not have this right to partnership registration. It is only at Notarius Publicus that it can be registered partnership. In 1997, the Human-Ethical Federation applied for a defined marriage competence and partnership registration. They were then refused. Then they searched in 1999. In the context of the consultation of this case, they have indicated that they wish to have the right to registration of partnerships. It has not been planned to take this in this round. Besides, it'll be a much bigger case, it'll be extensive because we have a lot of weddings in this country. As far as I know – and I have studied in the department – only the Human-Ethical Federation has applied for this, and no one else. It may be a little small to go to a major legislative change based on the wishes of one organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e352	We heard the Council say that this amendment to the law is to prevent forcibleness, in addition to the fact that it is forbidden by criminal law to force anyone to marry against their will. Nevertheless, the Government and government parties, and the majority in that respect, do not choose to nuance, but to include arranged marriages in these law paragraphs and regulations. Can the Council of State then guarantee me that no young people have to marry against their will in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e357	I think the Storting and the Government are in complete agreement that we are going to fight coercion, and we are doing it with further new approaches today. It is such that neither the Government nor the majority of the Storting have said that arranged marriages should be prohibited. In those environments where marriages are arranged, you see clearly the difference between this and what we call coercion. Many immigrant communities also work, we know that today, very actively against coercion. Eirin Fallet also stated that the important thing for us must be that there is an option, that you actually have the right to say no. We have to make sure that happens. Otherwise I would like to mention that of course we are going to follow developments closely from the department. It is important that we follow along, and that we see that what is Storting's intention with this law is actually being followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e364	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 168]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e382	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 25 minutes, the Right 20 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the Coastal Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e391	The working party has in its alternative budget a different tax regime from that of the Government. Our approach must be viewed in the light of the three main tasks of the tax system: – finance public welfare goods, – reallocations and equalisation of income and wealth differences – contribute to the efficient use of societal resources The Labour Party has proposed an increase of approximately DKK 10 billion in appropriations compared to what the Government proposed. Nearly half are used for an active enterprise policy to create more jobs and to improve the economic situation of those who have lost their jobs. The rest is used for school, care and health. About NOK 4 billion is covered by increased taxes and taxes, the rest is financed by increased income, savings and cuts. The working party has stressed that the increased income from taxes and taxes must meet as much as possible the other main objectives. In the last 10 to 15 years, pre-tax income differences have increased. First of all, capital income has increased sharply. An increasing proportion of capital income is concentrated in those with high incomes. There has also been a particularly high wage increase among those who initially have the highest wage. The working party goes into its budget to keep the entry point for step 1 of the top tax unchanged until next year. The draft budget for 2002 of the Stoltenberg Government proposed raising the peak tax entry point, from 289 000 kroner to 320000 kroner. From this level we would make a wage and price adjustment of the entry point, which for 2004 is equal to the current level. It is then assumed that the average price and salary growth for the period 2002–2004 is 6.2 pst. Furthermore, the Workers' Party goes in to reintroduce taxes on dividends. In the 2001 government budget, the Workers’ Party and the Centre’s parties agreed to introduce a tax on dividends on the recipient’s hand. This tax should be temporary until a new system of taxes on production and capital was in place. Despite the fact that such a system was still under investigation, the Bondevik II government chose to remove the dividend tax in the 2002 budget. The members of the Workers' Party agree to reintroduce the dividend tax until a new system of business and capital taxation is in place. A small group of people with high income receives most of the dividends paid. No other type of income is so equately distributed among different groups as just share income. Therefore, dividends tax will have a positive distributive effect. It's worth noting that the Tax Committee, led by Right-Man Arne Skauge, in its position is in favour of a model with a tax on dividends. In most other countries, such as the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. Sweden, the United Kingdom, Denmark, the United States and Germany pay a tax on dividends. Another factor that argues for the reintroduction of the dividend tax is that today’s system may be contrary to the EEA Agreement’s non-discrimination requirements. Today, Norwegian shareholders pay higher taxes on dividends from non-resident companies than on dividends from Norwegian companies. This issue will now be examined by the European Court of Justice on the basis of a case from Finland. It's going to be interesting to follow. The working party is further in favour of tightening the split model by changing the so-called cap rules. This implies that a greater part of the income of a company is taxed as labour income and a smaller part as capital income. Since labour is taxed harder than capital, this means that the tax revenue of the country is increasing. There is a general perception that the split model is hollowed out on a number of points and that it is too easy to adapt to the model to save taxes. It is gratifying that the Government also agrees with this. As a result of the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party, the rate of return on capital in the split model is now reduced from 10 to 7 pst. As a result of this change, the capital income of split companies will decrease, while labour income will increase. It also appears to be a perception among some that the tax burden in Norway is particularly high. Overall, the level of taxation in Norway is slightly higher than the EU average, but lower than in Sweden and Denmark. For the taxation of employee income, Norway has lower average taxes than most other OECD countries. However, this picture must be seen in the context of a relatively high level of taxation in Norway, such as VAT and excise duties. Norway also makes relatively good comparisons of effective tax rates for companies. In other words, Norway is no tax haven, but we do not stand out as a country with a particularly high level of taxation. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party indicate that the Government proposes the introduction of a general system of compensation for value added tax for municipalities and county councils, as well as for private enterprises carrying out certain statutory municipal tasks. The Labour Party believes that the Government has a too one-sided focus on competitive outsourcing and privatisation as a tool for improving the efficiency of the local government sector. The Labour Party believes that further competitive outsourcing in health care and care for the elderly must be stopped until the consequences have been evaluated. We therefore oppose the introduction of a general VAT compensation scheme for the municipal sector and propose instead that the current legislation be continued and further developed. That's another point I'll also get into a little bit. There are tax credits for gifts to non-governmental organisations, which I sincerely believe are about to take off. The government is now proposing that gifts to the Norwegian Church be entitled to tax deductions within a total amount of NOK 6000. The working party considers that tax deductions should initially relate to expenditure on the acquisition of income and cannot see any reason why gifts to different organisations with different intentions, etc. should be deducted from tax. It is therefore proposed to remove this tax deduction, but I note that it is not a majority in the committee. Another point that has been much discussed is changes in the rules on property taxes on power companies. The working party here shows that the purpose of the minimum value of the property tax base is to secure the power municipalities' income from the property tax in periods of low prices. We believe that a reduction in the minimum value will mean that this consideration is being treated worse than is the case with today's rules. Many municipalities have put a lot of effort into their economy, and the proposed change will result in a cut in the welfare offer to the inhabitants of these municipalities. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 1, which was adopted last Wednesday, asked the majority of the Committee ‘The Government assessed and presented to the Storting a case on the tax allocation scheme for tax receipts from power generation with a view to achieving a better distribution between municipalities where the turbines are located and municipalities where the water resources are located’. We look forward to the government coming back to Stortinget with views on this. The budgetary agreement concluded between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party agrees that the minimum value for the valuation of power plants for property tax purposes is increased from DKK 0,8/kWh, as proposed by the Government, to DKK 0,95/kWh and that a maximum value of SEK 2.35/kWh is introduced. I note that we did not get completely into port in view of today's level. It was a halve of the government's proposal, and we're going to be pleased with that. Another area I would also like to highlight, which may be different in view, and which I look forward to the Minister of Finance perhaps commenting on in a later article, is the taxation of profits in the realisation of specific operating resources in power plants. I would like to point out that this will help to facilitate socio-economic rational restructuring in the power industry. Some questions have been raised about this, but as I see it, this means that the applicable rules for depreciation of the cost of the buyer and the income of the gain of the seller by direct realisation of specific operating resources in power plants result in locking effects, so that it is more advantageous to sell shares in a power plant instead of the power plant itself. I understand that the aim of the proposal to exempt the tax on profits by transferring specific operating resources in power plants is primarily to encourage a seller to sell the power plant itself and its associated fall rights instead of shares in a power plant, so that one gets the best possible owner of each power plant – regardless of whether it is municipalities or private individuals who own the power plants. It has been stated that the gain tax cannot be passed on to the seller in return for the acquisition by the purchaser of the tax base of the assets transferred. As a result, the exempted gain is continued on the buyer’s hand. This will include, inter alia: it appears that the general income of the purchaser in the event of such transfer is increased because the purchaser takes over the seller's depreciation basis. The point is that this will affect the price formation of power plants so that the locking effect of the applicable depreciation rules versus income on the gain/loss account is reduced. The transfer without any gain tax at the seller, but with the tax continuity of the buyer, is optional. This means that a buyer who has acquired tax values may choose to resell with full taxation in the next round and thus re-write the values of the new buyer. Instead, if he chooses to sell with no gain tax, the exempt gain is transferred to the new buyer. This is a little technical, but there are a lot of questions about these issues, so I think it's important to mention it in the debate. I hope to hear the Minister of Finance's point of view, whether the understanding on the part of the Committee is like that of the Minister of Finance. At the end of the day, I will bring forward a very small case, but a big case for those concerned, and for the areas concerned, namely, what happens to the ski lifts. Here we see the positive effects on the competitive situation and on initial investment to bring ski lifts under the new VAT system in line with passenger transport. Further reference is made to the answer sent by the Minister of Finance to the Committee, which states that bringing ski lifts, etc., would have positive tax implications. into the VAT system. The Committee believes that it will help to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian winter sports centres in the tourism market if a ski lift is included in the VAT system at the same rate as for passenger transport. I take up, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Labour Party's proposal and proposals where the Workers' Party is part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e460	The representative Tore Nordtun has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e463	Six days ago, we had a long financial debate, where we discussed most of the issues that are also addressed in the setting we are discussing today. I therefore see no reason to repeat what we took up there, but there are a few things that deserve a little review today. Firstly, the government is supported by the creation of a shareholder register, a register that provides important services to shareholders in the event of realisation, and provides a better information base for taxation and equality management. The Progress Party does not want such a register now, as there may be changes to the tax rules that may affect the registry. If we're going to wait until we get a tax system that everyone thinks is perfect, and that doesn't need any change, I don't think we'll ever get such a register. That would be sad. Secondly, the government parties are pleased with the changes in the VAT system for passenger transport. The introduction of VAT on low-cost passenger transport, 6 pst., will also strengthen public transport by up to half a billion dollars next year, alongside a simpler regulatory framework. It can facilitate better quality and/or lower ticket prices. Thirdly, government parties are also pleased that a general VAT compensation scheme is now in place for municipalities. The proposed scheme will eliminate the present distortions of competition between private and municipal self-production. Many municipalities have looked forward to this amendment because this could contribute to better provision of services in municipalities by making more efficient use of available resources than at present. The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are moving towards this change. Focusing on competition, getting better and cheaper services seems uninteresting to them. All users who depend on municipal services will be pleased that the government parties and the Progress Party ensure that the Government's proposals become a reality. If any of the Committee's proposals were not taken up, I'll take them up now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e476	The representative Heidi Larssen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e479	As you know, tax relief is a priority issue for the Advance Party. We want a lower level of taxation, and we also want a simpler tax system. In total, in our alternative state budget, we have tax reliefs of DKK 18 billion, which are financed by DKK 13 billion in public sector cuts and DKK 5 billion in government budget deficit cuts. Tax relief is for us a tool to increase value creation, to reduce unemployment and thus also to ensure the well-being of both young and older people in the short and long term. These tax reliefs have been introduced in connection with the tax decision that we had to deal with on Wednesday, including those that require amendment of the law and that have been included in this bill. Those are the ones I want to focus on right now. First, however, I would like to say that we note that the outcome of the agreement between the Workers' Party and the government parties does not lead to any reduction in the level of taxes next year. We think that's sad, and it's obviously negative for future value creation. Now there are still a few points of light in this majority position. These include: that you want to raise the limit, from NOK 30000 to NOK 50000, for an employer’s tax exemption for paid work at home. It is a positive proposal that will result in more orderly forms of paid work at home, and it can also reduce undeclared work. We clearly agree that reduced taxes will also reduce the motivation to avoid taxation. Another positive point is that there has been a proposed reduction in the number of equality topics and the number of similarity topics, from 435 to 99, which corresponds to the number of Equations Offices. It's positive. This will result in a harmonisation between the number of equality offices and the subjects of comparison, and that will be a good basis for providing a qualitatively good complaint handling for each taxpayer. Of course, VAT compensation is also positive. It will improve the conditions for making better use of the public resources available and will increase the level of well-being of the resources available. There are also some proposals concerning power plant taxation. The reason why these are positive is that it is important to encourage more power development and also more power generation. It is important to achieve a better balance between supply and demand in terms of power and to get the price down. Steps have been taken to raise the limit for the determination of land interest income and natural resource taxes to 5 MW. It is a contribution that will make it more profitable to deploy small power plants, and we of course support it. We also want to get a further increase, from 5MW to 10 MW, but we want such a change to take place without the municipalities losing it. As regards the change in the minimum value and the fixing of the maximum value, we support it in principle. But we think that when it comes to reducing the minimum value from NOK 1.10/kWh to 0.80, which is proposed, the municipalities have been given a little short notice in view of reducing their revenues. Many have come a long way in the budgetary process, and we cannot therefore support the proposal that these amendments enter into force from 2004. Nor will we support the 0.95 reduction of the Labour Party and the government parties. We want the minimum value to be 1.10 for next year. That is what the municipalities have budgeted for, and that is why we should stick to it for 2004. In terms of company car tax, we have a proposal. We find that nothing has been done to correct the unfair corporate car tax – you are taxed on a flat-rate basis for private driving up to 13 000 km per person. years, and the return has increased to 75 pst, from 50 pst. Like it used to be. The Ombudsman has pointed out that this needs to be reconsidered and that the rates should also be reviewed with retroactive effect for 2003. It has not happened, and it may help undermine the authority of the Civil Ombudsman that the statement he has given is not taken into account. The depreciation rate for machines we have proposed increased to 25 pst. It is important to ensure better competitiveness. In Sweden, this rate is 30 pst. Even if we increase it to 25 pst., we'll have worse conditions than you have, for example. in Sweden. Special deductions for age and disability have been still for several years now, at NOK 18 360. We suggest increasing it to NOK 20 360 to take back some of the years of non-regulation. We also want to liquidate the pensioner's allowance ceiling, so that pensioners can work in addition to receiving a pension without reducing their pension for that reason. Such a proposal will stimulate pensioners to work more. It will in turn mean more value creation in society, and it will also mean greater tax revenue for the state and the municipality. We have also proposed some improvements in the shipping tax. The reason for this is, of course, that we are committed to ensuring international competition conditions for the shipping business we have in Norway, thus preventing flagging out. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party has made in the vote, either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e507	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e510	Some of our suggestions in this setting were discussed in detail in the financial debate last week, so I will limit myself to commenting on some points that were not before then. First, to the proposed changes to the tax regime for power take-offs. SV is opposed to reducing the minimum value of the property tax base for power take-offs, as proposed by the Government. Although one in the agreement with the Labour Party has adorned a little on the proposal, we still do not support it. The government justifies the proposal that it would improve investment incentives in power generation, without any likelihood that it would actually be necessary. On the contrary, investments in the power industry have only gone one way in the last few years, up slightly. The Central Statistical Office reports an increase of 28 p.m. this year. for aggregate investment appropriations for the supply of electricity compared to 2002. This is the highest result recorded since 1989. The 2004 estimate is 17 pst. over the corresponding assessment for the current year, which gives us a hint of an even higher level of investment for 2004. Real estate taxes on power plants are a decisive source of income for many municipalities to maintain the well-being of their inhabitants. It is incomprehensible that the government is weakening its finances to give tax relief to a power industry that has never had more surplus than it is now. At the same time, we are also surprised that the Government receives support from the Labour Party to ensure that this change will apply from the New Year onwards. Even the Progress Party, which otherwise supports the conversion itself, finds it unparalleled to give the municipalities such a large loss of income on such short notice and will have a start from 2005. Another issue that affects municipalities is the introduction of a general VAT compensation in the municipal sector. SV opposes the proposal because it is more a scheme for privatisation and postponing competition than it is to demonstrate efficient use of resources, as the Government claims. On the contrary, there is great uncertainty in the municipalities and municipalities about the reform, the figures and the distribution effects. KS has not been informed about the practical implementation of the reform. The proposed compensation scheme will have a significantly greater distribution effect between municipalities than it has until now been focused on. The reform will introduce municipalities as competitive and those who can afford to invest a lot because it gives a greater refund than extractions. Correspondingly, municipalities that choose municipal operations or that cannot or do not require the same volume of investment in the next few years will lose money. This will force privatisation and postponing competition and override investment plans that local authorities would otherwise have. SV believes that the distribution underlying the proposal is too narrow and does not assess all aspects of distortions of competition. We therefore ask, in the context of the Committee on Budgets, for the preparation of another proposal which will make what constitutes the distortion of competition between carrying out the task of own adding and buying from private individuals in a better way. We have also chosen to present a Document No. Eight proposals to allow municipalities to enter into contracts with voluntary organisations, such as the Red Cross and the Salvation Army, on health and social services without outsourcing. The purpose of this proposal, which is currently under consideration in the Business Committee, is to make an exception to the rules on the outsourcing of health and social services, so that any outsourcing is a matter that can be decided by the local authorities themselves. The proposal specifically aims at protecting the voluntary organisations providing health and social services to the public. This is absolutely necessary to ensure that these socio-economic organisations are not closed down as a result of the launch of competition and the proposal contained here. The last thing I want to mention is the proposal for tax deductions for voluntary organisations and the Norwegian Church. Using community resources to support voluntary organisations makes sense. It allows organisations to spend time and effort on the organisation's purpose rather than collecting money. This was an important reason to change the key that ensures a strong increase in the input of the volunteer organisations' work, unfortunately against the Government's will. Instead, the Government has intended to increase support for voluntary organisations through tax deductions for gifts to them. SV has been opposed to increasing the deduction to NOK 6000, and we are, however, opposed to incorporating the Norwegian Church into the scheme. It's not because we're opposed to supporting voluntary organisations, nor do single organisations that have a different stand from us. But we have a view that the use of community money should be determined politically. This has to be supported by other important issues in a prioritisation process such as budget management, and it also ensures that support is fairly distributed among organisations on the basis of objective criteria such as the number of members and, for example, the number of members. the number of local layers. The list of approved organisations at the beginning of November was more than 140 paragraphs. Some of these were called very local, even if the legislation is national. On the other hand, we have seen that the Norwegian Sports Association is struggling to get approved gifts. Thus, a tax-reduction scheme determines the level of support provided by each organisation by the amount of gift that can be drawn out of donors. There is little evidence that the proposal provides a fair distribution among organisations, and especially democratically, it cannot be said either. With this, I will record the SV's suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e538	The representative of Heidi Grande Røys has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e542	Today's debate is a follow-up and a consequence of the debate and decisions taken in the Stortinget last Wednesday. Odelsting is currently implementing the legislative changes necessary to follow up the adopted budget, and there are some areas that deserve a mention here in Odelstinget. The budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Workers' Party was well received. Last week's financial debate and press review have been about the fact that both the process and the outcome have received positive publicity and strengthened voters' confidence in politicians. We're happy about that. It's a settlement that the responsibility has won. Of the changes in laws that we have to deal with here tonight, there are especially two areas where it is a pleasure for the Christian People's Party to mention. One is the extension of the tax deduction scheme for gifts to non-governmental organisations, and the other is increased collective effort through the conversion of the VAT system for passenger transport. The voluntary organisations make an invaluable effort for, inter alia: children and young people. Yes, they are doing an invaluable welfare effort for the whole of society. Voluntary organisations are absolutely important contributors to Norway being a good country to live in. By volunteering and commitment, many people are also allowed to use other aspects of themselves than what they do in work or in school. The government parties were given a majority to increase the maximum deduction limit for gifts to non-governmental organisations to NOK 6000 as of 2003. This has been an important incentive and an important financial contribution to non-governmental organisations. Government parties are now proposing to continue the maximum deduction of NOK 6000 for 2004. New this year is that gifts also for voluntary work in the Norwegian Church are included in the scheme. The Norwegian Church is traditionally considered to be part of central government rather than a voluntary organisation. But to a large extent, the Norwegian Church operates activities that can be characterised as voluntary and that are not covered by the state and municipal financial responsibility of the Norwegian Church. Now there is a majority to extend the deduction scheme for gifts, so that gifts to the Norwegian Church also come under the tax deduction scheme. It will be a good measure to stimulate the voluntary efforts being made within the Norwegian Church. Let's hope that the arrangement takes away, that it is given great gifts. There are still positive development potentials in the scheme, both in terms of the amount of the gift sum, and in terms of making the scheme less bureaucratic and maximum fair and accurate. There's more to go on. I am surprised to note that the Socialist Left considers gifts of tax deduction as a threat to public revenue. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to ensure good conditions for the voluntary sector, both through government grant schemes and by stimulating the participation of women, social society and hard work. Gifts with tax credits are not a threat to, but a positive complement to the public support schemes. Let us hope that the joy of the Norwegian Church and the voluntary organizations will increase sharply. The reduced tax revenues are money well spent. It is a good social economy to give the voluntary organisations liberal conditions. It is also currently decided to introduce VAT on passenger transport at a low VAT rate of 6 pst. from 1 March 2004. This means that the industry is entitled to deduction of VAT. There is an important change and investment in public transport. The scheme gives a gain of approx. 500 million. kr per. years to transport companies, which in the next round will facilitate lower prices and better provision of collective services. Christian People's Party is the family and care party. The Christian People's Party is concerned with good conditions for the voluntary organisations and a good environmental policy. The decisions we are making today will strengthen the conditions both for voluntary involvement and for a good environmental policy through a greater commitment to public transport. This has been well prepared by this government and the annual budgetary settlement with the Workers' Party. Therefore, there is reason to say that we are happy in the Christian People's Party, even tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e570	The 2004 tax regime of the Centre Party provides for lower taxes on funds and low income through an increase in the percentage of the minimum deduction, an increase in the free-card limit and a tax deduction for single-residents with low income. Anyone who earns more than NOK 330,000 gets an increased tax. We remove the most unsocial tax burden ever given by reintroducing the dividend tax. Women are most and most of the winners in this scheme. 500,000 women receive tax relief, only 170,000 receive higher taxes. 330,000 men get lower taxes, 590,000 get higher. It is a tax haven for more equality and better distribution. Our entry point for top taxes in class 1, step 1, is NOK 329 000, against the Government's NOK 354 000. SSB's latest income statistics for this year tell us that an industrial worker makes NOK 305 700. For 2002, we have figures showing that men have an average of 246 000 kroner in annual income and women of 149 000 kroner. It is far from our peak tax limit and to what I consider to be ordinary income. The positive effect of our tax measures is NOK 3.7 billion, which we spend on business development and school. Improvements are needed. There is one of the other tax issues that I would like to mention, and that is what has been mentioned by several, the VAT reform for the municipal sector. In the course of this discussion, we have received a lot of input that shows that this tax proposal is poorly prepared, it comes too quickly. There will be a significant redistribution of municipalities between them by chance and millions for medium-sized municipalities. This leads to new, large form fields. It leads to new grey zones, and it's very demanding for those who are going to introduce this. Then we are faced with the treatment of new tax reform. I have noticed that it is now almost three years since the representatives Foss and Burnde promoted a private proposal. It was in January 2001 that they asked for a big deal in April 2001 for the tax changes to be proposed in the autumn of 2001. Fortunately, we have had a more thorough examination of the tax proposals to come, but in the meantime we have also had many changes, both of a certain size and of fundamental importance. It is good that we get these matters processed. But I'm thinking that if we hadn't managed last fall to prevent us from getting the tax proposals as part of our budget, it would have been a demanding treatment, a treatment that would have been irresponsible. We hope that the proposals we will receive come early this winter and that the Minister of Finance will be able to explain them. Then I'll take up the suggestions that the Center Party has alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e583	The representative Morten Lund has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e586	We are currently examining the tax return, and now let it be said that Norway is a good country to live in. I agree with the representative of Nordtun that in many ways Norway is a tax haven. It is not difficult to live in Norway. We've read in the newspapers that our new countrymen have exploited the system, and they're not alone about it. But I honestly think that the Storting has also exploited the system by opening up the Schengen Agreement and removing the border control. So to a large extent, we don't know who lives in this country anymore. It's just asking the police, they can confirm it. But we don't know, we just have a little bit of a clue. Today we have been told that there is an employee of a new head of state. It's not good when what we've been told is that he has more than three times as high a salary as the Prime Minister. He's not alone. There are many who have high wages in this country. But there's a lot of people who have a low salary, too, but they're kind of doing it. We have gone into this budget to increase the alcohol tax. It cannot be included in a budget until later. There are many things you could say in this debate. I think it's too bad that people should sit and freeze in their houses, because they can't afford to have electricity. It is a consequence of the liberalisation of the power plant market that it has become more important to raise money for the shareholders of the various power plants than to provide cheap electricity to people. But once the Storting has decided it, it must be like this. But it also deals with the taxation of power plants. Today we experience that more and more of the natural resources are being privatised and sold. If we go into the EU, which I hope we don't, we get social dumping. We have to be willing to go down at least 40 pst. in income. I wonder if the Minister of Finance has thought about where he's going to pick up the tax dollars when we get the social dumping. Black work will flourish. There's not so much tax to pick up then. We've already lifted the border control. Well, that's probably said, but I want to take up all the suggestions that we have alone, that we have with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e603	The representative Steinar Bastisen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 169 of this Official Journal]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e613	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e650	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e660	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e699	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e709	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e716	During the debate Olav Gunnar Ballo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government is asking the Government to draw up a treatment guarantee whereby children and young people with child protection measures are given a legal right to treatment for drug use and psychiatry.’ The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e889	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e899	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e906	During the debate, Mr S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the following proposal: ‘The Government is asking the Government to adapt the legal text in such a way as not to make a difference between marriages and marriages.’ The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e1071	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e1081	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e1091	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the position of the Committee on B will be to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e1098	During the debate, 34 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Tore Nordtun, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 2, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party, proposals No. 3-7, by Tore Nordtun, on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 8, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, 9-13, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Coastal Party, 14-16, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 17-22, by Heidi Grande Røys, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, 23-29, by Morten Lund, on behalf of the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, 30 and 31, from Morten Lund on behalf of the Centre Party, and proposals No. 32 to 34, from Steinar Bastisen on behalf of the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e1132	The President will propose the following voting arrangements: there will be a vote on the proposals under the laws to which they belong, and there will be a vote on the proposals of the individual fractions. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e1144	There is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 19 June 1964 No. 14 on inheritance and certain gifts are amended as follows:Section 11(A) is deleted. IIThe change under I shall enter into force immediately with effect for the provision of services, see the inheritance tax law, Sections 9 and 10, which takes place on or after 1 January 2004.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e1216	For B, two different proposals are available. That is proposal No. 8 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 23, from the
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e1280	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 8, from the Progress Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: In the Law of 19 June 1969 No. 66 on value added tax is amended as follows:Article 5b, first subparagraph, paragraph 9 is replaced by the following:Transportation of persons with protective vessels.§ 5b, first paragraph, point. 10 is replaced by the following:Communication of passenger transport services by vessels of protection.§ 5b, first paragraph, point. 16 shall be replaced by the following:Services related to information on voyage data protection.§ 16, first paragraph, point. 10 is replaced by the following:Transport services with a protected vessel consisting of the ferrying of a vehicle. 1 point (b) shall be replaced by the following: School ships, protected vessels, defence vessels and ships used for research and meteorological purposes.§ 17 third paragraph, new point (d) shall be replaced by: 1.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e1335	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 23, from the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The law on value added tax is amended as follows: the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 28 shall be replaced by the following: Registration shall take place when the trader’s turnover and taxable withdrawals of goods and services have in total exceeded NOK 40000 for a period of 12 months.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e1379	For C, there is one different proposal, No. 16, from the Progress Party – this applies to Section 8, fourth paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e1429	The Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party have announced that they want to vote against the law. The Workers' Party supports the Act subsidiaryly in accordance with the Budget Agreement. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 16 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the Law of 6 June 1975 No. 29 on property taxes to municipalities is amended as follows:In the fourth paragraph of Section 8, the value of the facilities referred to in the first paragraph of Section 18-5 of the Tax Act shall not be lower than NOK [[tariff]] 1,10/kWh or higher than NOK 2,5/kWh on the basis of the natural resource tax base of the installation as seen by the equation the year before the tax year. IIAmendment I enters into force immediately and with effect from the 2004 tax year on real estate.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e1460	I voted incorrectly, I should have voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e1467	The correct number of votes will then be 62 votes against the proposal and 11 in favour. And then it goes over the setting. The Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e1823	For F there are three different proposals, No. 11 from the Party of Advancement and the Coastal Party, No. 21 from the Socialist Left Party, and No. 27, from the Center Party and the Coastal Party. There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Party of Advancement and the Coastal Party, which reads: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on social security is amended as follows:INy § 19-6, third paragraph, the first sentence is replaced by the following:The old-age pension shall not be reduced even if the old-age pensioner has annual retirement income in addition to the pension.IIThe change in I shall enter into force immediately and with effect from the year of income 2004. [[People's Security Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e1852	Then there is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Socialist Left Party, which reads: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on social security is amended as follows:The fourth paragraph of Section 23-3 is replaced by the following:No fee is payable when the income is less than NOK 34 600. The fee shall not exceed 25 pst. of which part of the income exceeds NOK 34 600.IIThe change in I enters into force immediately and with effect from the year of income 2004. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e1877	Finally, there is a vote on proposal No. 27, from the Senter Party and the Coastal Party, saying, ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on social security is amended as follows: the fourth paragraph of Section 23-3 is replaced by the following: no fee is payable when the income is less than NOK 40000. [[People's Security Act]] The fee shall not exceed 25 pst. of which part of the income exceeds NOK 40000.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e1932	For G, there are proposals from most fractions. It's going to be wetter on the suggestions first, and we're starting with the smallest fractions. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 32-34, from the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘Law of 26 March 1999 No 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:In the first sentence of point (d) of the first paragraph of Section 7-11, a deduction of SEK 200000 in the value of the equation shall be made for the calculation of net income after point (a).IIThe change in paragraph I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the year of income 2004.» [[tax laws]] Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:New § 8-7 is replaced by the following:§ 8-7 Fund provision for owners of fishing vessels Tax payers operating fishing on their own fishing vessels or renting such vessels to others using the vessel in fishing activities may require deductions from general income for the provision of funds in accordance with the rules laid down in this provision. [[tax laws]] [[1]] [[2]] The provision is limited up to 30 pst. the general income for the year from the activities referred to in the preceding subparagraph. [[3]] Provision must be made for the provision of reserves within the time limit laid down in this Article. [[4]] Amounts deducted under the above provisions shall be added to the taxpayer's income for the year in which the funds are disbursed and not later than the fifth year following the deduction of the amount. [[5]] The Ministry shall prescribe the completion and implementation of this provision.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:New point (m) of the first paragraph of Section 5-15 shall be replaced by the following:Distributive income earned from work which is not business income on board ships.IIThe amendment under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from 1 July 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e1996	Then there is a vote on the proposals No. Thirty-one and thirty-one from the Center Party. Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: point (a) of the first paragraph of Section 7-11 is replaced by the following:The percentage income is calculated at 2,5 pst. [[tax laws]] the equivalency of the property on 1 January of the Equation Year after deduction as provided for in point (d). However, for that part of the equation value exceeding SEK 451000, the income shall be calculated by 5,0 pst.§ 7-12, sixth paragraph, point (a) is replaced by the following:The percentage income shall be calculated by 2,5 pst. the proportion of the property's Equation Value on 1 January of the Equation Year after deduction as provided for in Sections 7 to 11d. However, for that part of the proportion of the value of the equation that before deduction exceeds NOK 451000, income shall be calculated by 5 pst.» Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: in the first paragraph of Section 10-12, the second paragraph is replaced by the following: the remuneration is fixed at dividends received multiplied by 11/28 of the shareholder's tax rate on general income. [[tax laws]] [[1]] However, in the following cases, the remuneration of dividends received is determined multiplied by the shareholder's tax rate:(d) The recipient of the dividend is a limited liability company or an assimilated company within the meaning of the first paragraph of Section 10-1.(e) The dividends received to the active shareholder, so far as the dividend does not exceed the estimated person's income attributed to the shareholder of the company in the year of income the dividend is distributed.(f) For that part of the total dividends to the shareholder not exceeding NOK 10000, the initial value is set at the acquisition value, possibly with up or down-regulation by an amount determined in accordance with Sections 10-34 or Sections 10-35. [[2]] [[2]] If the amounts determined in accordance with paragraphs 10 to 34 are positive, the entry value in the event of realisation referred to in paragraphs 10 to 37, and the realisation in the event of the transfer of the share to the company that issued the share, shall be governed by 11/28 of the amount. The previous sentence shall not apply to the realisation by a limited liability company and assimilated company within the meaning of the first paragraph of Section 10-1, to the realisation of the unit in mutual funds, or to the realisation as referred to in points (b) and (a) of the first paragraph of the first paragraph of Section 2-5. The acquisition value shall be set at the amount paid by a taxable person for the share if no other provision is made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e2051	The proposals are then put to the vote. 24, 25, 26, 28 and 29, from the Center Party and the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 24: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 19 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:§ 6-32, first paragraph is replaced by the following:§ 6-32 Calculation of the minimum deduction The minimum deduction is fixed at an amount equal to 27,5 pst. [[tax laws]] [[1]] of the sum of income covered by Sections 6 to 31. The basis of calculation is rounded down to the nearest divisible by 100. The size determines the lower and upper limit of the minimum deduction. The size may set a specific lower limit on the minimum deduction calculated by and given in income covered by paragraphs 6-31, first subparagraph, (a), (c) or (d) or second subparagraph. Taxes which have both the income referred to in the preceding sentence and the income covered by the first subparagraph of Article 6-31(b) are assigned the highest (c) minimum deduction calculated at a separate lower limit, but without calculating the minimum deduction as income covered by the first subparagraph of Article 6-31(b) or (d) minimum deduction calculated from total income, but without applying a specific lower limit.» Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:§ 16-1 is replaced by the following:§ 16-1 Deductions in taxes on undifferentiated personal taxpayers who do not live in households with others are deducted from taxes and social security contributions where general income does not exceed an amount of SEK 180 000. [[tax laws]] [[1]] The deduction referred to in the previous subparagraph shall be NOK 1000. [[2]] [[3]] The Ministry may provide for the completion and implementation of this paragraph. Where special considerations so require, the Ministry may extend or restrict the scope of persons entitled to deduction under this paragraph.’;» Proposal No. 26 sounds : ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:§ 6 to 60, first paragraph is replaced by the following: Taxes which, for at least 130 days of the year of income, have personally engaged in or engaged in fishing or fishing at sea or along the coast are deducted by up to 30 pst. [[tax laws]] the net labour income of the fishing or catch, limited to NOK 100000.§ 6-61, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: Seafarers are deducted by up to 30 pst. of the income, limited to NOK 100000.» Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:Articles 6 to 44, first paragraph, are replaced by the following: [[tax laws]] [[1]] The deduction is limited to that part of the amount exceeding NOK 8800.» Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:In the first paragraph of Article 14 to 41, new point (j) is replaced by the following:J. agricultural constructionII§ 14 to 43, first paragraph, new point (j) is replaced by:j. agricultural construction – 6 p.IIIThe changes under I and II enter into force immediately and with effect from the year of income 2004. [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e2135	Proposals Nos. 17-20, from the Socialist Left Party to voting. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:The second sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 6 to 50 is replaced by the following:The maximum deduction is granted for gifts under this paragraph with a total of DKK 1 800 per year.IIThe change under I enters into force immediately with effect from the 2004 tax year.» [[tax laws]] Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: in the first paragraph of Section 10-12, the second paragraph is replaced by the following: remuneration is fixed at dividends received multiplied by 11/28 of the shareholder's tax rate on general income. [[tax laws]] [[1]] However, in the following cases, the remuneration of dividends received is determined multiplied by the shareholder's tax rate:(c) The recipient of dividends is a limited liability company or an assimilated company within the meaning of the first paragraph of Section 10-1(d) The dividends received to active shareholders, so far as the dividend does not exceed the estimated income to be distributed to the shareholder from the company in the year of income.The present second, third and fourth subparagraphs become the third, fourth and fifth subparagraphs respectively.§ 10 to 32, the second subparagraph is replaced by the following: the initial value is set at the acquisition value, possibly with up or down-adjustment by an amount determined in accordance with Sections 10 to 34 or Sections 10 to 35. [[2]] [[2]] If the amounts determined in accordance with paragraphs 10 to 34 are positive, the entry value in the event of realisation referred to in paragraphs 10 to 37, and the realisation in the event of the transfer of the share to the company that issued the share, shall be governed by 11/28 of the amount. The previous sentence shall not apply to the realisation by a limited liability company or assimilated company within the meaning of the first paragraph of Section 10-1, to the realisation of the unit in mutual funds, or to the realisation as referred to in points (b) and (a) of the first paragraph of the first paragraph of Section 2-5. The acquisition value shall be set at the amount paid by a taxable person for the share unless otherwise specified.IIThe amendments under I shall enter into force immediately and with effect from 6 November 2003.» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:The second paragraph of Section 4-12 is replaced by the following:The share listed on the Oslo list is valued at the price value on 1 January of the Equation Year.§ 4-12, third paragraph, is replaced by the following:Non-listed share is valued at the proportionate share of the share company or public limited liability company's total tax asset value on 1 January of the year preceding the Equation Year broken down by denomination.§ 4-12, first sentence of the fourth paragraph, the following is added:Non-listed share in foreign companies is valued at the estimated sales value of the share on 1 January of the Equation Year.§ 4-12, sixth paragraph is replaced by:Grunfondsvist in savings bank, mutual insurance company, credit and mortgage association and self-owned financial corporations are valued at the price value on 1 January of the Equation Year. [[tax laws]] If the price is not quoted or known, the value shall be set at the estimated value of sales.IIThe changes under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2004 year of income.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 May 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 6-32 is replaced by the following: the minimum deduction is fixed at an amount equal to 26 pst. [[tax laws]] of the sum of the income covered by Sections 6-31.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e2227	The proposals are then put to the vote. 14 and 15 from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:Articles 6 to 20 are deleted. II.Amendment I shall enter into force immediately and with effect from the 2004 year of revenue.» [[tax laws]] Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: in the first paragraph of Section 7-11, point (a) is replaced by the following:The percentage income is calculated as 2 pst. [[tax laws]] the equivalency of the property on 1 January of the Equation Year after deduction as provided for in point (d). However, for that part of the equation value before deduction exceeds NOK 451000, the income shall be calculated at 4 pst.§ 7-12, sixth paragraph, point (a) is replaced by the following: the proportion of the property's Equation Value on 1 January of the Equation Year after deduction as provided for in paragraphs 7-11(d). However, for that part of the proportion of the value of the equation before deduction exceeds NOK 451000, income shall be calculated by 4 pst.IIThe changes in I shall enter into force immediately and with effect from the year of income 2004.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e2271	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9, 10, 12 and 13, from the Advance Party and the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘Law of 26 March 1999 No 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:The first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 5-13 is replaced by the following:The advantage of the private use of the employer's car is determined on the basis of an estimated annual private driving distance of 10000 km and the addition of driving between home and work.The first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 6-12 is replaced by the following:The reduction after the first subparagraph shall not exceed 50 per cent of the estimated total cost of the ticket. [[tax laws]] Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:Sections 6 to 81 are replaced by the following: Special deductions for age are made in accordance with the following rules: As from the month in which the taxpayer reaches 70, a special deduction is made in general income of SEK 1697 per person. start of month. [[tax laws]] [[2]] Spouses are entitled to the same special deductions as a single spouse. The provision in (a) shall apply mutatis mutandis when, after age 67, the taxpayer withdraws an old-age pension under Section 19-6 of the Swedish Social Security Act. If the taxpayer takes only part of the full old-age pension, the special deduction is reduced accordingly. If both spouses receive an old-age pension from the population, the special deduction is distributed by half on each From and with the month in which the taxpayer receives a preliminary unpaid salary under the Social Security Act § 12-16 or disability pension because the acquisition capacity is reduced by at least 2/3, a special deduction is given in general income of SEK 1697 per person. start of month. [[2]] [[3]] Tax payers other than those referred to in the first and second subparagraphs who have received a rehabilitation allowance, a preliminary allowance or a refund under the Law on Social Security or an invalidity pension under that Law or other laws shall, for each month commenced, have a special deduction equal to half of the monthly deduction after the first sentence of point (a). [[4]] The rules on spouses in this paragraph apply mutatis mutandis to consensual residents covered by Sections 2 to 16. [[5]] The Ministry may provide for the distribution of special deductions under this paragraph. IIAmendment I shall enter into force immediately and with effect from the 2004 year of revenue.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: the second paragraph of Section 8-15 is replaced by the following: interest income, gains on the realisation of shares and other financial income, excluding currency fluctuations, is taxable. [[tax laws]] [[2]] The corresponding costs and losses are deductible. However, this does not apply to the gain or loss on the realisation of the share referred to in paragraphs 8-11(d) to (g). Only a proportion of the company’s actual interest expenditure is deducted from the company’s carrying amount of financial assets and total capital. In calculating the interest deduction, the value of the asset shall be determined at the average of the value at the beginning of the year of income and the value at the end of the year of income. Deficits determined by the rules of this provision shall not be deducted from income determined by the fourth and fifth subparagraphs and by the third subparagraphs of Sections 8 to 14 but may be carried forward against subsequent income determined by this provision in accordance with the rules of Sections 14 to 6. The provision of paragraphs 10 to 43 on the deduction limit does not apply in determining the revenue referred to in the first sentence for the merchants and placing participants within the scheme.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e2354	Proposals Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, from the Workers' Party, is taken up for voting. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘In the Act amending Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:Articles 6 to 50 are deleted. IIAmendment I enters into force with effect from the financial year 2004.» [[tax laws]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: in the first paragraph of Section 10-12, the second paragraph is replaced by the following: remuneration is fixed at dividends received multiplied by 12/28 of the shareholder's tax rate on general income. [[tax laws]] [[1]] However, in the following cases, the remuneration of dividends received is determined multiplied by the shareholder's tax rate:(d) The recipient of the dividend is a limited liability company or an assimilated company within the meaning of the first paragraph of Section 10-1.(e) The dividends received to the active shareholder, so far as the dividend does not exceed the estimated person's income attributed to the shareholder of the company in the year of income the dividend is distributed.(f) For that part of the total dividends to the shareholder not exceeding NOK 5000, the value of the income is set at the acquisition value, possibly with up or down-regulation by an amount determined in accordance with Sections 10-34 or Sections 10-35. [[2]] [[2]] If the amounts determined in accordance with paragraphs 10 to 34 are positive, the entry value in the event of realisation referred to in paragraphs 10 to 37, and the realisation in the event of the transfer of the share to the company that issued the share, shall be governed by 12/28 of the amount. The previous sentence shall not apply to the realisation by a limited liability company and assimilated company within the meaning of the first paragraph of Section 10-1, to the realisation of the unit in mutual funds, or to the realisation as referred to in points (b) and (a) of the first paragraph of the first paragraph of Section 2-5. The acquisition value shall be set at the amount paid by a taxable person for the share unless otherwise specified.IIThe amendments under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from 12 November 2003.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:In the second, third and fourth paragraphs of Section 4-12, the share listed on the SME list at Oslo Stock Exchange is valued at the price value on 1 January of the Equation Year. [[tax laws]] [[2]] [[3]] Unlisted shares are valued at the share's proportional share of the total value of the tax assets of the limited liability company or public limited liability company on 1 January of the previous year, broken down by denomination. [[4]] Unlisted shares in non-resident companies are valued at the estimated value of the share's sales on 1 January of the Equation Year. The share shall be valued after the third subparagraph when the taxpayer so requires and may be liable to the company's tax asset value.§ 4-13, first paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: For a limited liability company or public limited liability company, which was formed the year before the Equation Year, the share value is set at the sum of its nominal amount and premium. [[1]] If the formation takes place upon transfer from a personal company to a limited liability company or public limited liability company, the value is taken into account on 1 January of the Equation Year, determined in accordance with the third subparagraph of § 4-12. 32 amending Law No 10 June 1988 40 on financial activities and financial institutions, etc. [[transition of savings banks into limited liability companies or public limited liability companies]] Decision VI, amending Law No 26 March 1999, 14 on taxes on wealth and income [[tax laws]] Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:point (b) of the third paragraph of Section 5-14 shall be deleted; point (c) of the third paragraph of Section 5-14 shall become point (b).IIThe changes under I shall enter into force immediately and with effect from the year of income 2004. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:In the first paragraphs of Section 12-17, the following is added:If the taxpayer's total personal income from undertakings for which estimated personal income is determined would exceed 23 times the basic amount of the public security [[tax laws]] [[G]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e2469	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 concerning taxes on wealth and income, point (d) of the first paragraph of Section 14-43 is amended as follows: i.e. passenger cars, tractors, machinery, tools, instruments, furniture, etc. [[tax laws]] – 25 p.II.The change in I shall enter into force immediately and with effect from the year of income 2004.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e2496	Finally, there is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, which reads: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:the fourth sentence of the second paragraph of Section 5-15 shall be deleted.IIThe change in I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the financial year 2004. [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e2519	There will then be a vote on the suspension of the tax law. Here are some fractions that want to go against the law under Roman number III.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e2731	First, the paragraphs under Roman number III against which the individual fractions are opposed. The Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party want to go against § 6-50 new fifth paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e2746	The Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party wish to oppose § 9-3 new seventh paragraph and § 18-3 sixth paragraph (b).
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e2758	The party seeking to oppose § 7-11, first paragraph, point (d), first sentence, second sentence, § 18-2, second paragraph, and § 18-3, seventh paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e2768	The other paragraphs under Roman No III are taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e2899	The titles of the laws and the laws in their entirety under A-G.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e2909	Law decisions will be sent to Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e3126	The Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party have announced their opposition. The Workers' Party supports the Act subsidiaryly in accordance with the Budget Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e3141	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes here too that the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party want to oppose.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e3155	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e3185	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-02-lower-2.ana.ud1114e3195	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
