ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e28	They called for alternates, for Hordaland County Ragna Flotve and for Vestfold County Day Terje Andersen, have taken their seats. Three permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the sick leave of the representative Leif Lund from 22 January onwards and until further notice from the Central Party's Group on sick leave of the representative Jorunn Ringstad from 22 January onwards and until further notice from the representative Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken on leave from 22 January until 29 January respectively to attend the Parliamentary Assembly of the Third World Parliamentary Forum and the Third World Social Forum, in Porto Alegre, Brazil. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For the county of Hordaland: Rita Tveiten, Pål Barrefjord and Bjørn LotheFor Sogn and Fjordane counties: Liv Signe Navarsete.3. Rita Tveiten, Pål Barrefjord and Bjørn Lothe are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for representatives Leif Lund and Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e85	Rita Tveiten, Bjørn Lothe and Liv Signe Navarsete are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e90	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e95	I propose Anne Berit Andersen and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e100	Anne Berit Andersen and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not available, and Anne Berit Andersen and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve are unanimously elected as presidents of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e103	The representative of Åslaug Haga will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e106	It is Morten Lund who is going to put forward the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e114	Morten Lund will make the announced proposal. If he acts on behalf of Åslaug Haga, he will show himself.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e117	The proposal is from Åslaug Haga, Rune Kjellaaen, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and me, and it is about removing the benefit tax on the employer's payment of monthly tickets for public transport for employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e122	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e145	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Per-Kristian Fossstatsrådet Dagfinn Høybrätten The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e161	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. Compared to most other countries, Norway has a low unemployment rate, but unemployment in Norway is increasing, and it is now increasing considerably. Only since last autumn's government change, there have been some 20 000 more unemployed. It's an increase of almost 20 pst. since the autumn of 2001. Long-term unemployment is increasing, the number of young people unemployed is increasing, and unemployment among immigrants is increasing. The government has shown a passive attitude to these problems, ignored warnings and allowed several opportunities to combat unemployment to go away. The most important thing the government has done in relation to unemployment is that the unemployed have had a substantial cut in the daily allowance. Initially, it is a serious matter to become free. Income is almost halved – the daily allowance is above 60 pst. of wages and salaries. The party of progress and the parties of government have decided that the daily allowance should be reduced further. Does the Minister of Finance think that's reasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e170	I agree with the questioner that any increase in unemployment is serious. It is also taken seriously. The main means of combating unemployment is a comprehensive economic policy and an industrial policy that addresses the main problems, namely the high level of Norwegian costs, the high Norwegian krone price and the high level of Norwegian interest rates. This is going into real trouble. We are facing an unemployment situation today that is somewhat different from before. There's an increase, but the composition of the unemployed is so that the number of unemployed with quite high education is larger than before. As it was – I must say in detail – explained in the previous Question Time by the Minister of Labour, it is the government's policy that it is now important to strengthen measures to ensure that the unemployed are kept as short as possible in this situation, in other words to strengthen Aeta's intermediary activities. The Prime Minister has already announced that the Government will make proposals to strengthen the efforts in the field of Aetat’s job courses and clubs. That, I think, is more adapted measures than just increasing labour market measures. Also it will be assessed continuously, and the government will come back to it during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e179	I thank you for the answer, but I couldn't possibly hear that the Minister of Finance was close to answering the question. I did not ask about labour market policy and not about the labour market law, but about what he meant about the daily allowance, and he did not say that in one word. The starting point is that there is too little focus on labour market policy, on the dissemination of people into new jobs and training. This is why, among other things: Long-term unemployment and unemployment among immigrants are increasing. But in addition, there is a problem that about 80 000 people almost halve their income, and that the Progress Party and the government parties have decided that these people will receive up to NOK 20 000 less in daily allowances in terms of increased number of qualifying days, increased income requirements and also the removal of their own holiday allowance that unemployed people always benefit from. So I repeat the question, is it reasonable that people who already have very little will get even less? Interest rates go down, and that's good. But the main reason for falling interest rates is increased electricity prices and increased unemployment. Then you use the time off as an economic tool, and I strongly warn you against that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e188	It is not the government's policy to use unemployment as an economic tool. It is clearly stated in the national budget. Firstly, the holiday money conversion does not produce effects in the current year. Secondly, the conversion of the day-to-day arrangements is clearly justified on the basis of good experience, which shows that, when the day-to-day allowance period is shorter, from three to two years, the trend towards a long-term unemployment situation is decreasing. International experience suggests very clearly that such a change in the current day-to-day arrangements will lead to a reduction in the trend towards long-term unemployment. I have to repeat that the amount of the daily allowance in itself is not an active instrument to limit access to the unemployed. It must be completely different.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e195	There will be follow-up questions – Tore Nordtun.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e198	In a press release from Aetat on unemployment, it is said that we are now facing a cyclical shift in the labour market. Unemployment increased throughout last year, and it is necessary to return to the early 1990s to find a stronger growth in unemployment. Let me take one example, in the oil and gas business: the rigging market has fallen significantly due to the activity. The number of rigs in storage has gone from 12 to up to 24 at the end of the year. In this respect, Stortinget has said through several settings that we need to look at the framework conditions, and that we need to facilitate the situation if development is to go in the wrong direction. Now it's proven that evolution is going in the wrong direction. New framework conditions have been asked for within tail production, etc. in the North Sea to maintain a level playing field, a level playing field, etc. Now we are losing a lot of highly skilled workers. [[The President clubs.]] Here the Stortinget has given marshalls to the Government. Where are the measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e205	The President must ask that one stay within the prescribed speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e209	I look forward to this exchange of views with the Nordtun representative on oil policy. As far as I remember from the setting of the kerosene notification, an assessment of tail production measures has been requested in the revised national budget for the current year. It does. It has been made clear from the Minister of Oil and Energy that there are no postponements of anything in this area, either in terms of the search message or the next exploration concession round, either in terms of the impact assessment for the Barents Sea, following the set rate. As far as I can assess, everything the Storting has asked of measures in the petroleum sector to keep a reasonable pace in this area – and that is important – is followed up by the Government, and the Government has no plans to change the momentum further. Now I have to add that it's not always so that keeping the light tempo gives a frequency of finding and a volume in the findings that is proportional to what you want. But there is nothing new in Norwegian oil policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e216	The President would point out that the term ‘tail production’ may not have an entirely self-evident meaning for them. But if the President is properly informed, this is about exploiting the remaining resources on the seabed, and has nothing to do with agricultural policy! Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e221	I am recording that the government does not want to defend its budget cuts. And that's right, as they say: this is a profoundly unsocial cut. It is discouraging to note the passivity of the government, because the government says unemployment should be solved in the long term. But as the famous economist Keynes said, in the long run, everyone is dead. This means that as unemployment rises, immediate action is needed to help those people who have fallen into a very serious disability. It is also quite shocking to hear that we are being said to be on ‘right dull’, as the Council of State expressed it. The fact that a person is ‘rightly tired’ in a situation where unemployment increases from month to month must well be called a rather insensitive approach to the problem. My challenge to the Council of State is this: Why can't we solve some of the major welfare tasks that now need solutions – the construction of kindergartens, the construction of schools, the construction of railways? Why can't we get free hands at work through the many unsolved tasks our society is facing? It is possible to use the country as an engine to start operations, activities that also generate activities in the private sector and generate greater value creation and gain more hands at work. That's what we need, not the passivity that the government radiates.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e232	It is cynical to say that I used the term "right sorry" in connection with the development of the vacancy. It was used in the context of interest rate developments and the results of an economic policy that follows what is a main wish from the entire Norwegian working life, including the trade movement: a tight budget that contributes to the fall in interest rates and subsequently also to the damping of the krone price. It's delivered. It's important that the scale is such that it actually contributes in that direction. If the Storting had adopted a budget of much greater economic importance on the expenditure side, i.e. greater expenditure growth, it would have thwarted the objectives. Thus, the budget could contribute to even greater unemployment, not least in the competitive industry. It is therefore important that this should be kept up to date. Government is not passive in relation to labour market developments. Already in a speech on 3 January – and, President, there were a few holidays before that – one of the first working days of this year, the Prime Minister made a longer speech at the NHO Annual Conference, where he, among other things, held a speech. notified the measures that I mentioned in my first response, job training and the corresponding measures under Aetat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e239	The President will assume that everyone understands that the Prime Minister does not give such speeches on public holidays. Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e244	Also, I think the government is dealing with the increasing unemployment very passively, because the only answers the government comes with are job training and organisation via Aetat. The main problem is that there are fewer jobs that the unemployed can go to, and if there are no available jobs that people can go to, it helps very little to have gone to a lot of courses. Then it will be much more interesting to hear what ambitions the government has in order to facilitate relationships so that business itself feels the optimism it needs to create more jobs. Then it doesn't help with the mantra that the government is constantly expressing, because it takes time. In the meantime, the unemployment rate will rise further and problems will increase. We would like to know what the Government intends to do now to create more optimism in Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e249	I agree with the representative Jensen that it does not help with the innovation of jobs to send people on a lot of courses. That is why we are now also meeting with the availability of new measures, in line with the unemployment situation we have, and the type of people who unfortunately become unemployed. I remember that the main increase in unemployment during the second quarter of last year was in the provision of private services. There's something new in many ways. New measures are needed. The important thing that is now being asked for by industry and the labour market in Norway is that the budget is kept. They do not request changes to the budget either in January or February but for foreseeable framework conditions and budgetary rigour to be maintained, so that the results can be reported in the form of, inter alia, reports. reduced interest rate and subdued interest rate. Predictability in the economic sphere is the most important business in this context. Moreover, I refer to surveys published a few days ago in the paper that show that a majority of small businesses in Norway believe in better economic performance in 2003 than in the previous year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e254	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e257	Every day I receive phones from worried people, from ordinary workers, but also very many employers who notice that the economy is changing, who notice that the situation has changed dramatically only since we discussed the state budget in the autumn. When we discussed the government budget in the autumn, the Minister of Finance was very concerned to stress that the forecasts underlying the budget were correct, and therefore it was also important that the budget was adopted just as it was. But now we see that many of the assumptions underlying the state budget have changed. It is therefore also necessary that both magnification and government should be related to that reality and be willing to change the use of the instrument in order to remedy this. Power prices are rising, and people are having trouble paying their bills. There must be a greater offensive than the government’s 700 kroner in increased housing support.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e264	I was somewhat in doubt about the issue of electricity prices, remedial measures in this regard, or whether we have revised economic prospects for the whole of economic development in Norway. If the question was the last one, I can say that it doesn't have the government after that short time. The international economic situation is still marked by uncertainty, not least in relation to the international — yes, to say the least — security policy situation, the situation in the US economy and the stagnation of growth in some central EU countries. This has not changed significantly. Let me say this: the government will meet with the Contact Committee, i.e. the social partners, today, and then one of my conclusions will be that we are still better off than most European countries in terms of economic growth, and that growth prospects are not significantly changed, but that in some areas there are more negative signals today than they were in the past. In relation to the people's economy, I may think that the remedial measures proposed by the Government, not least in relation to support for those who are the most disadvantaged financially, will work, but it is difficult for the third week of January to say something about what the economic situation of families and households will be like in the first six months of the year. However, the sum of real wage improvements, tax relief and interest reduction — in some cases, provisionally — is such that families will get out of it in Norway if, for example, a comparison is made. with our neighbouring country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e273	It is a very thin comfort to very many people in this country that the Council of State compares Norway with other countries. The situation is getting pretty dramatic, and when the power bill gets dramatically high for a lot of people, it's not like they're just leaving to buy something they don't need. A lot of people have to give priority to the absolutely necessary things that they need in everyday life to keep the wheels going, and that really means that what the government is doing by sitting still is tightening up the economy, and that was not the preconditions when the budget was put in place. Nor was it a prerequisite when the budget was laid down to get the current prices that we now received, and that the government would charge a certain number of billions of dollars in VAT on electricity as a result of the situation we are now in. Does the Government and the Council of State not see that there is much more than ‘only’ those disadvantaged who will now have a problem and that it would therefore be more appropriate to reduce taxes and VAT in order to help more people instead of just helping with the housing aid measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e279	Well, my own power bill is such that there is absolutely cause for concern – in the sense that it is significantly higher than you are used to. The government is not silent about this, but I think the important thing is to take action against those who have the most difficulty. I think that if the government had followed a number of the advice given in the heated debate on low magazine filling and cold temperature in the first few weeks of January, the effect for people would have been that the electricity prices would have increased all year long and for many years to come. It is important not to give desperate measures in an emergency situation that will ensure that we get a permanently higher power price. In fact, some of the effects have also been that consumption has now fallen. It contributes in the right direction both economically and environmentally. If, in the first or second week of January, when the Progress Party proposed to change the revenue side of the State budget, it had followed the proposals of the Progress Party, the risk of not having interest rebates could have been significant.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e284	There will be follow-up questions – Torstein Rudihagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e287	After the government budget was approved, the situation in at least some areas has worsened. It shall apply, inter alia: increasing unemployment, and this is true of the industrial situation. For the Workers' Party, the fight against the increasing unemployment is entirely decisive. It is natural for the Minister of Finance to have some questions about this, because responding to these challenges both from the Minister of Finance and the Government is a tight budget and tax cuts. It is also said that this is what the business community is asking for, and it is certainly right, but I also meet a business that is constantly asking for something more targeted. The last few days ago, at one of the country's largest industrial areas, Raufoss, they said, as it is true, that every day they have to take part in an international championship, where they must be the best when it comes to product development, production methods and product to win in their territory. Does the Minister of Finance now see the need to channel something more resource into innovation centres too, where one can get an interaction between research, education, SIVA and enterprises, just to be in the front when it comes to product?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e296	The President will note that this was strictly a follow-up question to the previous main question, and not to this main question, but the Minister of Finance is free to answer it if he wants to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e299	I answer with life and I want all the questions relating to Raufoss. It is an excellent place and an excellent industrial site, which I have a good knowledge of. Raufoss’s problem is, in addition to the general cost problems in Norway, the market situation. But Raufoss is also a good example of how to cope with excellent product development with your own help. What we now see is that the targeted actions for research and development work. There has been a record increase in applications for FUNN, i.e. tax deductions for research and development contributions — an increase far beyond what is expected. It has a positive side. It's most important. The other side is that it's going to cost a little more on the state budget, but that's going to get the Stortinget back in revision or later. I think there's a kind of targeted action that's right. Whether it is right to also dose more to SND or to other instruments is a question that lies below the Minister of Economic Affairs and which I should therefore refrain from answering in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e308	Per Erik Monsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e311	In the context of the exceptionally high electricity prices, the Government’s measures have largely targeted those receiving housing support. Very many, both pensioners and families with children, have a necessary high power consumption for various reasons. Lookups in the newspapers and also own experience show that this year's bill can be two to three times as high as for the corresponding period last year. Can these be helped without using general instruments? I have heard several times in the public debate that the social office is the place to go to to get help in such a situation. In fact, most of the social offices demand that you sell both housing and cars before you get help. Does the Government think that is what is needed to help those who are now in an acute crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e318	People in acute crisis have opportunities in a social office. I heard in an earlier spontaneous questioning class that it was described as demeaning to refer people there. Let me highlight very strongly that I don't think so. There is nothing socially debilitating about seeking help in the case of public auxiliaries. It's not that there are standard solutions. The Social Office shall evaluate each case individually. There are no general requirements for the sale of other goods. It has also recently been clarified by the Minister for Social Security: all cases must be assessed individually. Then there's also reason to say that you worry about a high power price and high bills. But it's worth looking a little bit more at the system in the direction that the high current price that is now, as a result of low magazine filling and extreme temperatures, is not going to last the year out. We'll get back to that on other occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e325	Kristin Halvorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e328	There are a number of proposals in Stortinget, on the one hand from the Government, and on the other from the opposition parties, on the other. It would have been wise, then, for the big ones to leave the harness in order to come up with proposals that could create a majority, and that could help those who are now struggling with the power bill, but who could also help us in the long term, so that we can bet on more sources when, for example, we reach. heating up our houses. That's what you can bet on in the long term. That is at least the position of the SV on this. However, I would like to invite the Minister of Finance to a reflection, because I very much welcome the fact that the party that has voted for every chapter and every entry in this state budget, namely the Progress Party – and that budget has now been three weeks into a new year – is depriving itself of all responsibility when it comes to the landfill, and is extremely trying to ride two horses. Now the government parties are struggling with polls and have a very unstable majority in the Stortinget. The Minister of Finance thinks that this is a permanent situation in a difficult period for the country, where we are struggling with both unemployment and some of the other people who are demanding a solution to the challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e337	The Minister of Finance is free to accept invitations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e341	I understand that in a dialogue with Kristin Halvorsen it could be tempting to reflect on the policies of the Progress Party. I shall not be tempted to do so, but generally say that in situations of significant political and economic turbulence, not least as a result of the international situation, I think populism is a bad method for those who want to rule and rule a country. I see clearly that there are many situations that could have been solved in more popular ways, but in ways that would have been more gallant in relation to the long-term. Maintaining a budget and an economic policy to ensure the competitive sector is crucial for the Government. Ensuring an energy policy that gives the lowest possible price to consumers even when this extreme year, or perhaps half-year, is over, is crucial to the Government. I know that SV has proposed a totariff system. There are interesting thoughts that have been rejected on all previous occasions, including: based on geographical and social bias.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e350	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e353	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss. We have now seen signs of an emerging EU debate in Norway, and I understood in a debate that the Council of State took part in the other day, that the Council of State thought it was an economic advantage for Norway to become part of the EU. In particular, he felt that the low level of interest rates in the EU was an argument for Norwegian membership. Therefore, it might be interesting to challenge the Council of State on the following: Today, interest rates have been met at the Bank of Norway. We both hope, I'll think, that the interest is now going to make a downgrade. It is the situation in the Norwegian economy that suggests that it should. At the same time, we see that the alternative was that the interest rate was fixed in Frankfurt, not in Norway and not in Norwegian terms. The situation is that the Norwegian economy is in many ways different from the EU, and if it were such that we thought we could have the level of interest the EU had, there would have been nothing wrong with the decision of the central bank. My question to the Council of State Foss is this: does he see any economic arguments against Norwegian EU membership, or does he simply mean, as I understand him, that all arguments speak for Norwegian membership?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e362	Prime Minister... about forgiveness, Minister of Finance Foss.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e365	Otherwise, thank you, President, but it will last. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e370	It was a delay.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e373	It would be wrong to answer such a question by saying that all arguments speak for EU membership in the economic sphere. My main problem has been that when we disagree with the EU's policies, for example: With regard to the issues we have recently dealt with in the Storting, namely the view of rural policies and instruments there, differentiated employer charges, environmental policies, electricity taxes, etc., we do not let go and express our disagreement in the bodies that actually decide. That's my main problem. But it is clear that in today's situation there would be an advantage for Norwegian companies if one could have been part of a euro zone, with the stability it had given. It is clear that when trading in euro and competing with euro countries, it would have been an advantage to be part of the same system. I'm not saying that it's possible to transplant today's economic policy absolutely without changing into a euro system. Adjustments must be made. But I see great advantages for a small country by being a member of a larger monetary union, with the stability it will bring.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e378	I have to say that, first of all, I think it is good that the Council of States does not simply say that everything in the European Union is good, and says that everything in the European Union is not necessarily adapted to Norway. This is essentially a reasonable starting point for assessing this. What's the situation, for example, is that if you were to do something like that. Taking the differentiated employer charge, it is obvious that the EU is running a rough race against Norway, which wants to remove an instrument that actually works very well, and that, on the basis of completely incomprehensible so-called competition, it chooses to say that Norway should not have this option. At my discretion, this is a very good example of a good argument against the EU. In addition, it is a very good argument against the EU that many countries are doing well outside [[President clubs]] President, now the President's clock has gone wrong. This clock, on the panel, started in 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e387	I'm sorry. The doubt must be brought to the fore.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e390	I wondered if I had had a reduced speaking time for some reason, because I noticed that, President. My starting point is that there are many countries that are doing well outside the euro zone. Denmark can be a good example. England can be a good example. Sweden is also a good example. This means that there is a good opportunity to be outside of a small currency outside the large euro area while at the same time maintaining both employment and other important parameters of the economy. In particular, this is the most important: it is possible to implement an independent economic policy. I have to say that this is going to be a special and exciting debate in the future. I also hope that the nuance given by the Council of State in its reply can be continued in the forthcoming debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e397	Hope for an exciting debate to be shared by all in the future. Otherwise, the President will believe that the EU debate is suitable for greater format than for spontaneous questioning.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e403	I share the desire for an exciting debate, but also for a nuanced debate, because I think that is important. There is, of course, a nuanced debate within the EU countries, perhaps of which we too can learn a part. In Sweden, the debate has led the government to decide to hold a referendum and will recommend that Sweden join the euro zone. Denmark has a monetary policy that I didn't think was SVS, to say it like that. It is simply a matter of hanging on to the euro automatically and with a form of connection to the European Central Bank which cannot, of course, be described as significant autonomy. It brings both benefits and disadvantages, but it is a monetary policy that we do not conduct. I do not ignore the fact that developments in Norway as well, and I hope so, will make the situation in the Norwegian economy more normal. It is clear that six years of higher pay and higher cost growth than in our competitors are a development that cannot continue. For this reason, the difference in interest rates between Norway and the euro area countries is likely to decrease gradually, also as a result of an independent policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e410	There will be follow-up questions – Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e413	It is with a certain interest to note that the Council of State Foss admits that there may be inequalities and that he says that it is hoped that the situation in Norway will become more normal. But then my question is whether the Minister of Finance also acknowledges that Norway has had and has a different economic development from the EU, and that it is because we have not least an oil economy, and that in relation to low and high economic conditions we have been on a different curve all the way. Joining the euro and joining the EU would have led to an ever greater economic shock for Norway, either in the form of an adjustment to a unemployment rate significantly higher than for us, or by using the budgetary tool and financial policy in a completely different way from that of even a government that commends itself to having submitted a tight budget. Does the Foss also see these problems, what will this require of budget cuts if you are to join the euro, or what will be the result of adjustments in the labour market and of unemployment? Is Foss willing to go that far?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e418	The biggest threat to Norwegian employment, i.e. increasing unemployment, has just been the trend towards diversity in Norway. If we continue to increase the Norwegian level of costs entirely in spite of our competitors, we will get a sustained higher level of interest rates, and we will have a competitive situation that is constantly weakening the export industry. It's a development that the great majority of the Biggest don't want. So, in this sense, there is a desire to actually go in more EU direction, to say it this way, even if there is no clear impression of the EU in this area. It is a development that I hope we will be able to achieve even without EU membership. But it is clear, as I touched on in my previous answer, that it is demanding for a small country, perhaps particularly with a strong economy, to pursue a self-sufficient monetary policy when the vast majority of the competing countries join together in a common monetary union. What we'll notice in the years to come is that it'll be very demanding. Those who notice it most are unfortunately the export industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e423	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e426	I am not going to go into any argument for or against EU membership, but I think the Minister of Finance is very poor in answering the consequences of EU membership and of being a member of the euro zone for the Norwegian economy, because for many years the main argument for the government that has always been in need of tight budgets has been that the economy has been so overheated that that is why we have had the high level of interest rates. A membership will automatically mean that we get a significantly lower level of interest rate than what we have today in Norway. The question for the Minister of Finance is then: Will the pressure on the economy to which he is constantly referring suddenly disappear from EU membership, or how does the Government intend to address the challenge facing it? Because that's the argument we hear all the time, that it's the pressure in the economy that prevents us from doing very reasonable things with our own economic challenge. But all of a sudden, that pressure was to be eliminated by EU membership.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e433	I looked forward to perhaps clarifying the representative's view of the European Union, but I did not get much closer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e438	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e445	No, it's not like the pressure in the Norwegian economy disappears if we sign up anywhere, either in the EU. National problems will remain there. It is not that we can suddenly enter the EU by the system. There has to be another process, both to enter the Union and then to enter the euro zone. The latter requires a two-year transitional period. At a lower interest rate, given that the EU has it at that time – it is not a fixed, constitutional level of interest in the European Union, I recall that it is also determined by the economic situation in the Member States – it is clear that then other fiscal instruments will have to increasingly contribute to reducing pressure and ensuring stability. I am not quite sure whether the latter is an argument that will contribute to greater EU enlargement in the Progress Party, but I say it anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e454	Kristin Halvorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e457	Now we're getting closer to the core of the matter. If Norway were to be a member of EMU and had an interest rate level in line with EU countries, and the government's economic policy to curb the pressure in the Norwegian economy was to be implemented, there would have been only one opportunity to dampen the pressure, and that was to cut public budgets. And then we are at the heart of the matter, namely that Norwegian economy, among other things. due to oil and gas revenues, the economic situation of the EU is the opposite, because most EU countries do not have oil and gas. That is, they buy, and when the price is high, they have bad times and we have good times, and vice versa. This means that Norway’s ability to combat unemployment and to maintain a social economic policy is much smaller. The constraints we would have had in public budgets in today's situation if we had been members of EMU would be much greater than what even the Right is able to propose. Does Per-Kristian Foss really think that this would give greater flexibility to use instruments based on the overall objectives of economic policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e465	Yes, in fact, I believe that by joining the European Union we would have had the national instruments we have today, and well so. Some would not have been necessary, because we would actually ensure greater stability and predictability by being a member of a monetary union. It is clear that it is an advantage for the companies that compete with 12-14-16 or more Euro countries. It would provide a stability that would remove a problem from the Norwegian economy. So Kristin Halvorsen points out that if, as a result of membership in the Union and in the euro zone, the level of interest rates in Norway had been so low that it had itself led to pressure problems in the Norwegian economy, other mitigation instruments had to be assessed. But it's too simple and static to say that if today's level of interest rates in Europe and in the euro zone were to have been transplanted into the Norwegian economy right now, that would have happened. First of all, it's a mere hypothesis. We need to adapt to enter, and, secondly, the level of interest in the euro zone is not fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e472	The President has recorded that the Minister of Health is in the process of getting a need for exercise — and is making great hopes for the next main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e475	I have a sense of exercise, and the Minister of Health probably has that too. Everything suggests that the quality of the waiting lists in the hospitals is miserable until today. A few years ago, a survey showed that dead people, those who had been treated, and those who did not want treatment were actually a large proportion of the waiting lists. This is mildly unfortunate, as the waiting lists can both show the need for greater effort and show free capacity. These lists provide a significant basis for governance both for the health services themselves, for the Storting and for the Government. So the question is to the Minister of Health: does the Minister of Health share these concerns that I am expressing here, for lack of quality? And what is done to correct these unfortunate relationships?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e482	Over time, it has been clear that waiting lists are a poor management tool in relation to hospitals. In particular, it was unfortunate when there was a framework funding for hospitals, and having long waiting lists often resulted in a disbursement in relation to demands for supplementary appropriations. After receiving input-driven funding, where the money follows the patient, this picture was reversed, and hospitals were premiered to treat more patients, not to have more patients on the waiting list. It was important. When the State took over the hospitals on 1 January last year, a search light was put on waiting times and waiting lists with regard to two dimensions, both to clear the waiting lists, so that they would become more real, and to reduce their real size. Compared to both these dimensions, health enterprises have done a very good job in 2002. I would therefore argue that today we have a situation with far more real waiting lists than we had a year ago. However, it remains a challenge for health businesses to keep a constant focus on the best possible picture of the situation in the waiting lists – also because they play a role in relation to the free choice of hospitals and the ability to keep the use of free capacity in focus at all times. It is interesting to see that after we received the hospital reform, the available capacity has become clearer in connection with the free hospital choice. During the last few weeks we have seen that several hospitals in the country actually advertise their vacant capacity. This is an expression that you are starting to get an overview and that is why you can use the capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e491	I would like to go on with the point that the Minister of Health now had with free hospital choice. The waiting lists are precisely the basis for putting that system into practice, as a significant factor in achieving good patient mobility and good use of resources. Then it is still the case that crazy lists provide incorrect information when the patient himself or the decision-maker is going to look for capacity. I wonder if errors in the lists are actually more of a result of slurring than of lack of knowledge to perform the task. Or could it also be that the computer tool used for this is not well developed? The question for the Minister of Health is: do we have such a good data tool today that we can actually eliminate these obvious errors that have created problems for both corruption, government and health?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e498	I believe that through the efforts of health businesses in 2002, and as they will in 2003, they will have come a long way to overcome this problem. But it will always be so, in relation to any registration system to have data in it, that the quality is not only in the system, but also in the routines, in the attitudes and in the interest of the staff that the figures have to be real. I believe that with the pressure that the Stortinget has decided that it should be on the efficiency of hospitals, there will be a clear interest in making the best use of every penny in hospitals, in making the best use of the patient's capacity. We will follow up by establishing a national free hospital centre in 2003. It will have a strong focus on providing correct and good information to primary doctors, to inpatient doctors and to users. There will not only be information on waiting times, but information on how hospitals score on different quality criteria will also be provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e503	There will be follow-up questions – Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e506	I'm going to think that most people think it sounds strange that it should be so complicated to set up a list of those who are in line for treatment at one of our hospitals. Now I hear the Health Minister say that after the major health reform, it has happened very positively. I agree. We have one distinct owner, the owner is represented here in the hall, and it happens very positively. But I might think that the Minister of Health is a little bit ambitious in relation to the issue and the question that Kristoffersen raises. Let me therefore follow up by asking the following question: What kind of ambition does the Minister of Health have in order to finally clean up the waiting list issue? And when does the Minister of Health think he can come to Stortinget and say that now that's the order of the waiting lists, now we have the system in place, now we can say that the free hospital choice works?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e511	I am pleased that the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen also sees the positive features that now follow in the reform's cooling water, a significant increase in activity, reduced waiting lists and waiting times, and more real waiting times. My ambition is to have a system that gives patients good information about the quality of hospitals. This year, we are implementing a system of quality indicators for the management of hospitals, and this is to be gradually incorporated into the patient information. Secondly, this system shall also provide real and good information on waiting times. It will always be the case in the case of waiting lists produced in a robust system of Norwegian hospital services that there will be a gap between input and withdrawal. But combined with a good guidance service, a good response service, in health regions, I believe that during this year we should have established a very good service in relation to the free hospital choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e518	Ola D. Lukewarm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e521	I think we broadly agree that the waiting lists that have been in progress and have worked to this day have been very bad. Now health regions and health businesses go out and say they have reduced their waiting lists by 15 pst., 20 pst. And maybe even more. It's supposed to give the opinion a picture that you've become so much more effective in health care, but really it says very little about improved treatment capacity. It says something about cleaning up the waiting lists, which we agree has been bad until now. I want to know if the Minister of Health has the same reality, that this is more an expression of clearing than it is for increased efficiency and treatment capacity. So to this with the national hospital choice centre and the information flow and the communication between the 1st and 2nd line services. What kind of national level does the Government have in place to determine wherever they are in this country, having the same access to information on waiting lists and hospital selection centres?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e529	The last question I have already answered: during this year! I believe that in the first six months there will be a national information centre on free hospital choice, which will provide the information available in an even more targeted and effective way. To the representative of Lutvold's first question, I have to say no, I do not agree with the description of reality he gives. It is that from the day the state took over the hospitals, focus was placed on two sides of the waiting lists, both making them more real and making them shorter. Compared to both dimensions, health enterprises delivered in 2002. And they're going to deliver in 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e536	John I. Alvheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e539	I am pleased that the Minister of Health confirms the abuse of waiting lists that the county councils did in their time. We have had the reform, the waiting time has fallen, and the number of patients on the waiting lists has been significantly reduced. I have two questions for the Minister of Health. Does the Minister for Health expect further reductions in waiting time and reduced waiting lists in 2003? And can the Minister of Health assure that private health services are also included in the overall treatment provision in a somewhat stronger and better way than so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e546	Over the period 2000–2002, there has been a significant increase in the activity of hospitals. The resources allocated in 2003 facilitate the continuation of the activity at about the same high level as in 2002. This has led to a reduction in waiting lists and waiting times. I expect that it will still have such an effect. I've learned that predicting waiting times is to be careful, because there are actually also some elements in the development of the tendency to seek hospital treatment and in the morbidity of the population that cannot be predicted, but this is our ambition. So the question of including the private health services. The government has declared in the Sem Declaration and implemented in practice a policy based on the use of the resources we also have in the private sector of healthcare, in order to solve the common task as it is. But it has to be under the control of regional health companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e553	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e556	Yesterday, the Social Committee visited the Health Information Technology Centre, which is 40 pst. owned by the Ministry of Health, as far as I know. They could provide figures showing that Norway is perhaps the world’s largest country with the highest electronic coverage in terms of the use of health computer technologies. In the primary health service, it is largely full coverage. In the case of hospitals, we see that in a very short time, maybe two to three years, all the hospitals will have applied the technology. It can be seen that the references to hospitals are recorded electronically. We see that the receipt of the references is recorded electronically in the hospitals. This means that you're sitting on a unique tool if you're using it, to get a complete overview of the patients referred to, the volume and also changes over time. So you have access to a dynamic tool to get a complete overview, but the tool is not used. I would like to ask the Minister of Health specifically: do you want to look at the possibilities offered by these electronic tools, in order to quickly get a complete overview and make use of what is actually available today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e563	I am pleased that the representative Ballo has noticed the considerable effort that has been made in recent years to develop the IT tools and systems in the healthcare sector. It is, of course, a large and diverse device, where communication has been largely paper-based. That time you're on your way away from. The development of the national health network, the development of electronic communications between the social security system, doctors and hospitals are now in the process of being put in place. It provides opportunities to address even more of the resources on patient treatment, and less on paper migration. It's a very important development. We have made a coordinated commitment to this in the 2003 hospital management plan, as requested by the representative Ballo, to one of the strategic and national initiatives for 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e568	The last main question in today's spontaneous Question Time is asked by Morten Lund.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e571	The question is to the Minister of Finance. The industry is struggling very hard, and there are many who have lost their jobs. This is about the basic security of families and communities. The LO has calculated that the increased krone price has meant six times more than last year's liberal pay settlement for a worse performance in competitive enterprises. The krone price has become the most important industry framework condition. The krone price was not affected by a tight budget, although satisfying the demand of Norway’s Bank was the main objective of the budget. The Governor now addresses his claim to the future salary settlement. The very many unemployed do not experience the labour market as overheating, as the governor says it is. Does the Minister for Finance think it is right that Norway's Bank should be a judge of the payroll, too, when the reality description of the governor is so wrong? I refer to statements in newspapers today from the head of the Statistical Central Bureau.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e582	The representative has perceived it as a mistake if he believes that the governor has a judicial function in relation to the payroll. Wages and salaries continue to be carried out – and shall do – between free, independent parties, but it is the task of the Governor to clarify the link between monetary policy inflation targets, in accordance with new regulations of the Bank of Norway, and wage policy. It's actually a task that the central bank also had when the representative Lund's own party was placed with government power, and they joined the main features of the monetary policy that is now being pursued. In addition, the information initially provided by the representative was incorrect. If the evolution of compensation of employees is measured in the single currency, the labour costs of industrial workers in Norway have increased by a total of 16pst. more than with the trading partners in the period 1996 to 2002. How much of this is due to wage increases, and how much of that is due to the price of the crown? The answer is: 3⁄4 is due to salary increases, and 1⁄4 is due to changes in the price of the crown in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e589	The fact that the central government took initiative and changed monetary policy is not correct. It was the Stoltenberg government that did. Our point is that it is allowed to correct the course when one sees how wrong it is. Last year, the fishing industry has lost NOK 2.4 billion in export revenue because of the krone price. There are more than total wage and salary costs in this industry. It can't go on like that. It has to be very light pay if you are not allowed to do anything about the crown price that has now become the most important framework condition for the Norwegian industry. The fact that the price of the crown is so high is due to excessive interest, due to excessive inflationary fear, too little consideration for keeping the basis for the creation of the value. The center party believes that we have to take into account the basis of the value creation, we have to keep it. If we forget, we won't be able to get it back later. The question is whether the Minister of Finance is satisfied that, as politicians, we should only be allowed to express joy in the event of interest being reduced. Don't we have a more important problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e599	I note in the representative Lund's question an ever-increasing desire to return to a policy where the Storting set the level of interest rates. In recent times, it has not been the central party's policy. When the Central Party was close to government, it was not the central party's policy. When the Central Party had the Minister of Finance in Norway, the independence of the Bank of Norway and the relationship between fiscal policy, monetary policy and wage policy was the same as that currently practised. It's no use wanting to get away from your own story, even if you had to dream about the 1950s, 1960s, or 1970s. I'm worried about the high price of the crown. The government has therefore put in place a policy to help mitigate the pressure on the krone price – through interest rate reduction and through a tight policy that leads to it. But it is not that the krone price is adopted by neither politicians in this room nor by the Bank of Norway, which suddenly falls on 1 January of a year. It'll be a result of a development in which the differences in interest rates, among other things. Norway and the euro area countries are becoming smaller than they are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e606	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e609	The reversal of monetary policy has not exactly been a success. If you look at the four criteria mentioned in the mandate to Norway’s Bank’s production, employment, exchange rates and inflation, you have failed in all four fields. Inflation is lower than permitted, output has stagnated, employment has unfortunately decreased – unemployment is rising – and the worst thing is that the krone price is now stronger than it has been throughout the 1990s and to date. This means that what has happened to the conversion of monetary policy has not been particularly successful, based on any neutral consideration of its practice. As a result, the opposition in Stortinget has repeatedly called for clarification of the mandate. I noticed that when you put the interest rate down now last, before Christmas, there was a reason for this that was new in relation to previous reasons, and it might indicate that the central bank board has taken over the criticism that has just been raised against dealing with this issue. And then we're going to hope that it's the same ratio that's being emphasised today, so that we get an interest rate reduction -- and that's most necessary. But what's quite striking is that the main reason here is probably an unintended contraction through the electricity price, and not the result of an economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e614	I don't think I'm going to take part in any speculations about what might happen at a press conference at 8 p.m. 14th @item: inlistbox I don't think that serves neither the Norwegian economy nor the Great Government's reputation in that way. We have discussed on two occasions the mandate in Stortinget, both during the budgetary procedure and in the light of an interpellation promoted by SV. It was a good and nuanced debate. I then realized that the majority of people joined the understanding of the mandate expressed by the Government. A lot can be said about monetary policy on a general basis, but it is unlikely that monetary policy will lead to success in all areas at the same time. I recall the rather significant criticism of the so-called fixed rate regime, which was later renamed a relatively fixed rate regime, and which covered quite large fluctuations in the price of the krona. Now we are also facing a new international situation, not least as a result of the establishment of the euro zone. I think that is all reason to look forward to the outcome of the policy that is now being pursued.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e623	The time for the oral questioning procedure is running out. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e628	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 7, from the representative Morten Lund to the Minister for Health, has been transferred to the Minister for Transport who is directing him. At the request of the Minister for Transport, this question is moved and answered in response to question 23, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 11, by Mr Haga, representative of the Minister for Development, lapses, as the questioner is not present. Question 21, from the representative of Mr Akssen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be raised by the representative of Mr Ranveig Frøiland. Question 22, from the representative Heikki Holmås to the social minister, lapses, as the questioner is not present. Question 24, from the representative Signe Øye to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, is absent, as the questioner is not present. Question 25, from the representative of Gunnar Halvorsen to the Minister of Defence, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 26, from the representative Henrik Red to the Minister for the Environment, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 27, from the representative Svein Roald Hansen to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has been removed. Question 28, from the representative of Trine Skei Grande to the Minister for the Environment, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e658	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘About 40 pst. the placements of the oil fund are in shares and this has led to significant losses in recent years. For 2002, the loss seems to be worth 120 billion kroner. The Council of State will contribute to better securing the funds, and for example: be used in long-term domestic investment in infrastructure and necessary development, such as: in the hospital sector?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e667	There has been a broad consensus in the UK about the fund's investment strategy. The Petroleum Fund shall be managed in a sound manner where its objective is a high return on moderate risk, in order to contribute to ensuring the basis for future well-being, including not least pensions. The Petroleum Fund consisted from the beginning of only debt securities. From 1998 it became clear that the fund would have a long investment horizon, and shares were also included in the fund with a share of between 30 and 50 pst. There is a broad consensus among market players, and there is also good experience that shares are expected to yield higher returns than debt securities over time. The introduction of shares also underlined the need to calculate with shares greater variations in short-term returns. The shares of the Petroleum Fund are not high compared with other comparable funds. The case in international stock markets has recently been marked. In a historical perspective, a return to 1929 is needed to find such a weak development as we experienced in 2002. The Petroleum Fund has a long investment horizon. In the long term, there is reason to believe that shares will yield a higher return than debt securities. The location of the fund abroad is a central element of the Petroleum Fund’s guidelines. A main objective is to shield the domestic economy from the unfortunate effects it would have if one instead channelled the current revenues from the petroleum activity into the economy. The result of using a large proportion of domestic revenues would give rise to strong pressures on the economy and a reduction in the competitive sector. The reserves in the fund are what remains of oil revenue after the political authorities have decided how much of the domestic oil revenue is to be used, i.e. above the State budget. If part of the Petroleum Fund were to be allocated domestically, it could be in projects that did not reach the ordinary budgetary priorities. Investments in e.g.: In line with this, infrastructure and hospitals should be made in an ordinary way above the State budget. The level of investment in Norway should not depend on the size of the Petroleum Fund. There is currently a high degree of capital mobility between Norway and the rest of the world. Projects expected to be profitable should, as a general rule, obtain funding in the ordinary capital market. Oil activities in Norway have been developed and financed by borrowing abroad. Norwegian oil history is thus a good example of the functioning of the capital market, at least for a certain sized and internationalised industry. There may be market imperfections — as it is called — that do not allow capital to find the way to profitable projects. The State is therefore channelling state capital to finance domestic investments, e.g.: through SND and other central banks. It can also be pointed out that the State already places significant amounts in the Norwegian bond and share markets, among others. through the People's Security Fund. Over 40 pst. the value of the companies at Oslo Børs is owned by the State. It's far more than what's common in other Western countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e684	I thank the Minister for the answer. I am first concerned about whether the Minister of Finance believes that it is at present the intention that one should place this money at a high return and within a low risk – which was widely agreed in the Stortinget – continue to be present, when the loss on the Petroleum Fund for 2002 will actually amount to about NOK 120 billion. Then I have another question. This is the case with infrastructure and e.g. hospital building. We need at least 50 billion kroner to build, expand or rehabilitate our hospitals. Would it be an idea in this context that the State borrowed from its own petroleum fund to finance this expansion, instead of postponing it on time, as the signals now indicate? In my opinion, it would be a good investment to use some of these funds in the public sector – and perhaps, in terms of purely labour performance, to some extent use foreign labour. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e693	The President reminds us that the time frame for supplementary questions is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e696	The answer to the first question asked by the representative is yes. The answer to the second question is: I don't understand the relationship between question 1 and question 2. In question 1, the representative complains that investment in shares and debt securities yields too little return – and then asks if it is not possible to invest in something that gives even less return. Hospital investment today, with respect to reporting, does not generate income from a pension fund. That doesn't mean that it doesn't make sense to invest in hospitals. That is very sensible, and it will be done through ordinary budgetary priorities, in competition with other good purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e705	I believe that there is absolutely a connection here. Good funding for a useful measure — such as expanding and rehabilitating our hospitals — will bring both financial and other benefits to society. I think there is little willingness on the part of the Minister of Finance and the Government to think, to some extent, about the safer use of domestic oil money. I am aware that there are limitations and that there is a risk of overheating the national economy. However, with good administration and long-term use, perhaps with partly non-resident labour to carry out these work – whether it be road, rail or hospital construction, that is the same – and by thinking about alternatives and not by calculating the percentage of money that you get by placing in credit institutions, you can assess what pays off in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e710	For the sake of order, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is not invested in credit institutions but in the stock market and in debt securities. It is clear that there is a limit on how much money you can spend domestically, and that limit is where the money is taken from either fund or fund. It is in the real economy that the real impact reports, and then it is no use calling the account anything else. The effect will be the same. If the Central Party wants to spend more money domestically, the pressure in the Norwegian economy will increase, and the slowdown in the competitive sector will increase. It means higher unemployment. I agree that it is very sensible to invest in good health, but it must be done over ordinary budgets. If there are good projects that should compete with other good projects, whether they are investments in roads, in care for the elderly, in school or in education systems, yes, then ordinary budgets must be taken over. It is not useful to baptize the money. It will give the same effect domestically – whether you take them from here or there. Finally, I just want to draw attention to the fact that future pensioners cannot live for good purposes. They want to live off the money that's actually in a pension fund. A petroleum fund will probably act as a pension fund in a future system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e725	I want to ask the Minister of Culture and the Church the following questions: ‘The Bingo people in Solør, and probably many other places in the country, are struggling with a huge bureaucracy and a code that is difficult to deal with. Among other things, each team/organisation is not allowed to play for more than three months or 30 times. Then others have to let go. Does the Council of State see that this creates frustration and complicates the economy of the layers in relation to the positive work they do in the districts, as well as the offer of those who want to play bingo?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e734	Bingo is a lottery intended to provide revenue to local teams and organisations, and can only be held after police permission. Most of those who have such income are small and do no lottery other than the bingo. Often the bingo income is absolutely necessary to keep life in its work and function. There's a lot of people who want to get income from bingo. Thus, the bingo rules state that a team or organisation will only have 30 events for one year and that the event will have to be held for a period of three months. The goal of this rule is to ensure that more people are able to keep bingo and that the market is not dominated by a few. Police may grant exemptions from this rule in order to avoid particular untimely circumstances. Teams and organisations can also play together in a common pot, which can ensure that bingo revenue comes more smoothly throughout the year. As the Ministry of Culture and the Church is currently going through the rules of lottery and gambling, proposals will be made for changes to the rules of bingo. The work on such rules will also be included in the forthcoming Odelstingsproposition on changes in the gambling and lottery legislation, which is expected to be transmitted by the Stortinget before the end of March 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e745	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was a short answer, and which said relatively little about the future. The law that now applies came in 2001, so it's not an old law. And the answer is that the government council is not the most eager bingo player, maybe the council has not even been in bingo – I don't know! My small claim is that there is a greater interest in bingo games – at least in the districts – than in opera. It is also necessary to include all the positive effects of the revenue of the bingo game, among others. for children and young people, but not least for those who are involved and playing bingo. There are often a little bit older people who have bingo games as their cultural offer in a village. Thus, the State Council must not destroy the good work done by the bingo. Often this is out in the districts with small conditions, where there is no more than one group having bingo games. Then it is a little frustrating – very frustrating – when you are not allowed to play more than three months at a time. It should have been at least one year, and if that year goes well, there should have been permission for further games.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e752	The President meets with excitement the Council of State's presentation of its relationship with bingo!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e755	I must admit that I am not the largest bingo player. But I see that there can be an environment that can be nice for those who want to go and play bingo. The point of the rule here is, of course, that the funds received at the bingo games do not just have to go to a single actor in a community. You may need to be able to go to several players. So we have to have a set of rules that fit in both where there are a lot of players competing to get to play, and where there are fewer players. As I said, there is an opportunity to grant a derogation from this rule, and we will look at the totality when we present the matter to the Storting again during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e764	Of course, there's a difference between big and small conditions, but I'm talking about the small conditions where there's usually only one player playing bingo. For them, this is very frustrating. It takes a lot of time, which this actor could rather spend on positive work instead of on applications. In the Glaum Valley of January 15, 2003, we can read about a small sport as per the current date has not yet been authorised. There are no more actors there. It's a small sport team that makes a huge effort for its local district, both socially, at bingo games, and not least at the income it gives. Then you shouldn't put boilers in the wheels for someone who's doing positive things, who feels like this law is doing. Section 5 of the Lottery Act states «humanitarian or societal purpose». That's exactly what the bingo incomes of these little layers and the organizations go to. Then the Council of State must be kind and take a positive look at this, and my specific question is: what will the Council of State do to make it easier, so that a permit does not only apply to three months or 30 games when there are no more actors in the district?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e773	I'm not going to "put boilers in the wheels," nor are I going to put jaws in the wheels, nor are we going to put boilers in the road, or how we're going to put it in words. The point is that we are forced to have a code that fits in, not only in small places, but also in large places. And then we'll see when we get to Stortinget with the case, if it's possible to have greater dispensation access in places that the questioner illustrates. Now I have not read the article in the Glamdalen, but the representative would like to send him to me, and then we should also take that issue with us in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e784	I will ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘More and more policemen are facing serious threats to themselves and their families. Many live in hiding with a secret address. The Police Directorate is now taking action to protect these policemen. What action will the Council of State take to combat this type of crime?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e793	Experience in recent years shows that criminals are more perpetrators of violence than before or threaten to engage in violence against witnesses and other actors in criminal matters. The purpose of the use of violence and threats may include, inter alia: shall be to affect the staff of the courts, police, prosecution authorities, criminal services or the defence of their duties in the course of criminal proceedings. It is not so rare for us to experience threats to the police and their families. There have also been threats to judges. Such threats must be taken very seriously and take action by the police to protect officials and, where appropriate, their families. As Minister of Justice, I have sought to be an active driver to meet the worrying development of effective countermeasures. Here I would like to mention proposals for legislative changes to protect the actors in criminal proceedings against threats and represals from 2000, which were dealt with and adopted by the Stortinget. This applies, for example, to: a new Paragraph 132(a) of the Penal Code on the Strengthened Punishment of the perpetrator of violence or threats, etc. against the actors in criminal proceedings, including persons performing police or prosecution services. At the same time, provisions on anonymous witnessing were adopted under certain conditions and in important cases and extended access for the witness to indicate only the place of work instead of the place of residence in court. The Ministry of Justice has also proposed amendments to the Police Act on the use of fictional identity, which was adopted by the Stortinget last December. This access may also be used in relation to police officers and women and others in their household who are at risk of being subjected to serious crime aimed at life, health or freedom. I would also like to mention that the Ministry has sent, at the hearing, proposals for measures to combat organised crime, including: It is proposed to tighten up criminal sanctions for all types of organised crime which also open up access to extended methodology. A working group set up by the Ministry of Justice presented proposals for safeguard measures for witnesses in the May 2002 report. The Ministry of Justice decided that the work group's proposals should be implemented with immediate effect as far as practicable and that they should be laid down in national guidelines on witness protection. Securing a place of residence with an alarm or a new residence with a secret address is the relevant measures. With developments in cross-border organised crime, drug crime, crime in MC environments and gang crime, we may need to be increasingly prepared to face situations where key witnesses and police officers and women are exposed to threats and violence. This creates particular problems due to the international nature of crime. As a rule of law, it is our duty to be able to protect these, and it may be appropriate to protect them in another Nordic country. I have therefore taken the initiative in Nordic cooperation, and in March last year a Nordic meeting was held in Oslo on cooperation on witness protection. All Nordic countries were represented at this meeting, which was organised by the Police Directorate. This work is now being continued by the Nordic Heads of State or Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e810	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I will give tribute to the Council of State for the measures taken to counter this type of serious crime, accusations and attacks on our state of law. But I think it is limited to the extent that stricter penalties will combat this type of crime, because this is about mafia-like activities and extensive international crime. What is also a little frustrating is that we give in to pressure, in the sense that we need to take action to protect policemen from these kinds of threats. My question to the Council of State is: What opportunities does the Council of State see for dealing simply with threats and that kind of crime, so that we get to the forefront and don't have to run with fire-fighting and after-actions all the time?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e819	The representative is concerned about something very important, that what is now coming up, which I have been familiar with for a long time, and which has been the driving force behind my considerable commitment to combating organized crime and helping the victims of this crime, has been far too little in public awareness and debate. Therefore, it is very meritorious that the representative contributes to such increased attention. The core of the question from the representative is: what can we do to be in the forefront? We can, for example: work through new police methods, for which access to organised crime has been opened, and be alert to the environment, because it is known that there are issues in the environment that relate specifically to all police districts that have a new access to food skills, which are also linked to the body of the police called the ROK, the Council against organised crime, and the special unit of the police called the CATCH, which is to go especially after the backers. If you get a systematization of the work that we're doing well, you'll also have the environments in mind in such a way that they need to know that the police are following. This will also give greater protection to the front-line soldiers that the representative has raised in his question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e829	I hope that CATCH and the various measures that are now being taken in advance to combat such crime will succeed. At the same time, I would like to ask you to be a little critical of the types of police methods you use, of anonymity and the fact that the police have to work in hiding is not always the best thing for a legal state. What I'm wondering, and as the Council of State was a little bit involved in its first answer, goes on with international cooperation. The Council of State referred to Nordic cooperation, but this international crime is far beyond what is happening in the Nordic region. I wonder if the Council of State will also take, or whether he has taken, an initiative, among other things. to Interpol and Kripos, so that broad cooperation can be established to combat the type of crime and such environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e836	As far as police methods are concerned, they are necessary and they are strictly legally regulated. We are just using them in serious situations with threats, which are the background to the question raised by the representative. By law, the country is to be governed, and so is it here. But it's not to be ruled with naivety. I feel that the representative is involved in combating naivety and at the same time beat a blow so that when we do, we will do so with the legal state in the back. We've added up to that. In the fight against this crime, methodology provides the police with very important tools. Then comes other issues that have been raised by the representative, namely good cross-border cooperation – just good intelligence cooperation, bringing together not only between police districts in Norway but also across borders. We are actively doing this, both in relation to the Nordic countries, in relation to the Baltic Sea region and in relation to Europol and Interpol. I have previously had contact with police authorities, among others. in Russia and the United States, so that we have a cooperation that allows organised crime to be captured and combated as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e846	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: «In conjunction with Innst. O. No 51 for 1998-99 on the law on strengthening the position of human rights in Norwegian law, a body to ensure the quality of legislative proposals in relation to the European Convention on Human Rights was discussed before the bill was presented to the Stortinget. [[Law on human rights]] [[EMK]] Is there any scheme in place and is this quality assurance practised in all departments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e855	First, I would like to stress the importance of Norwegian laws complying with our international human rights obligations, including the European Convention on Human Rights. It is therefore important that legislative proposals be assessed in relation to human rights conventions before the proposal is promoted by the Stortinget. If the Norwegian law were to conflict with the human rights conventions incorporated in the Human Rights Act, the conventions would go ahead and other Norwegian laws would be set aside. In the preparation of proposals for laws to strengthen the position of human rights in Norwegian law, it was suggested that a single control system should be established for all new laws, regulations, etc. to ensure that they correspond as far as possible to human rights, such as: by setting up a dedicated expert group. However, the Ministry did not support this proposal in the interest of time. On the other hand, the Ministry of Justice pointed out that it is important that legislative proposals where human rights are likely to be relevant, at the consultation stage and, if necessary, later if substantial changes have occurred, are submitted to at least one hearing body with knowledge and interest in human rights issues. Departments have a separate responsibility to obtain such assessments. The Institute of Human Rights, the Norwegian Helsinki Committee, Amnesty International Norway, are examples of institutions normally consulted on human rights issues, in addition to the more ordinary legal hearing bodies. Both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also assist other departments with such assessments. If, at the start of legal work, human rights issues are found to need clarification, the two departments will point this out. The work is also followed in the ordinary legislative work of the Ministry of Justice. As is known, all draft laws shall be submitted to the Department of Justice for legal review. The relationship with human rights conventions is one of the things being checked. In addition, these departments, as well as hearing bodies, will be able to address issues relating to the relationship with the human rights conventions in their usual hearing opinions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e875	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was clarifying. In fact, there are rumors that not everyone assures his proposals, that proposals are being made and that laws that have not been subject to the controls that the Council of State now describes are being passed. So, as I understand it, all the legislative proposals are submitted to the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice for assessment. I also understand that what may be related to the European Convention on Human Rights is being checked, so that as much as it is likely to be possible in that context, is checked that nothing that will be immediately perceived as contrary to the EMC.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e880	It seems to me, on the basis of the information I have obtained, that the system of each department having the primary responsibility for the relationship with the Convention on Human Rights in its fields is working satisfactorily. But it is also true, as I said in my answer, that all draft laws are to be presented to the Department of Justice for legal review, and then the relationship with the Convention on Human Rights is to be checked. It is also true that we naturally follow up on what is happening in Strasbourg. We are waiting for a judgment in four cases on the relationship between compensation and punishment – two relate to the right of the courts to order the defendant to pay compensation after a conviction, two relate to the defendant’s right to compensation after a conviction. In the case of the last two, the law has already changed. As for the first two: should we lose, of course we have to consider changing the penal code. So this is also part of the care that we have in relation to our EMK obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e887	I think the Council of State has given a very good and adequate answer to this question, and I think it seems to me that we can have a fairly widespread security from the point of view of the fact that we are secure before we adopt laws, and that for that reason we cannot in any way be accused of adopting something that we know will subsequently be tried out in Strasbourg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e892	As far as both the mind is open, the eyes are open, everyone is awake and not asleep and all the professionals are doing their job, we're doing what we can. If we were to commit what is called ‘an incuria’ — that means that we were not good enough — we are striving to correct it as soon as possible and, of course, also to keep it properly in relation to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e902	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘A sixth stage of construction at Westfold Central Hospital was adopted by the Westfold county council in 2000. In St. prp. No 59 for 2001-2002, the economy of the Specialist Health Service and the 2002 budget, it is assumed that the sixth stage of construction was foreseen to be completed by the turn of the year 2004-2005. The construction is half finished, but further maintenance of the building has now stopped due to the construction. lack of money. What does the Council of State intend to do with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e911	From 2002 onwards, regional health enterprises took over a number of investment projects from different levels of county authorities, from loose sketches to projects where construction work had already started well. It has been necessary to take time to get a full overview of the economic impact of the various projects and, with the relatively tight investment frameworks set up in 2002 and 2003, with the uncertainty felt by regional health enterprises in relation to future investment incomes, it has been particularly necessary to move forward in a controlled way. In St. prp. No 59 for 2001-2002 is worded as follows: ‘The framework for investments laid down for 2002 was deliberately put in place to ensure that during the transitional period no investment projects were initiated which would put undue pressure on investment frameworks and on capital costs in the future. It was a central consideration that regional health establishments were given the opportunity to carry out assessments within their overall responsibilities and that this was subject to a restrictive approach.» The media redundancies and the concerns about individual construction projects must be seen in the light of this. With regard to the specific project that the representative Alvheim asks about, the development of the sixth stage of construction at the Central Hospital in Westfold, this is a demanding project to implement for Health South. It is a project with investment expenditure of well over NOK 1 billion. With the new funding system in place, it is important and correct that Health South carry out both critical assessments of the investment funds that the project will require and of the costs that will be incurred after the installation has been put into service. I await here the final evaluations from Health South in which they are now standing. It will provide the basis for the final governance dialogue between Health South and the Ministry of Health. However, I can already say that from both the background of the case and the situation in which the project is located, I would like to emphasise that a solution is to be sought which means that construction step 6 can continue and be completed. With the respect that I must have for the boards of regional health companies, I will add that although my starting point is clear, I will study the assessments that emerge from Health South before final decision is taken in this governance dialogue. In general, the hospital reform has been based on a principle of continuity with the emphasis on the continuation of county activities in the new state system. In cases where investment projects have only been at the planning stage, or have been so short that they have stopped being realistic, this principle has been modified. As far as the project in Tønsberg is concerned, it is my opinion that the overall history, the treatment associated with St.prp. No 59 Spring 2002 and the resources so far devoted to the project suggest that a continuation and completion of this project should be sought.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e925	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which confirms the Minister of Health's previous opinion to Tønsberg's Blade that the sixth stage of construction at the hospital in Tønsberg should be carried out as foreseen. Another response would be alarming from a health minister whom I perceive to be a saying person. However, funding does not matter on the one hand by increasing investment grants or by increasing the lending framework. Loans for construction shall be later served by the undertaking and therefore the investment grant should be relatively high. Can the Minister of Health here and now confirm that Health Sør will have an increased investment framework, so that the necessary borrowings at the Central Hospital in Tønsberg will not be higher than that the hospital can properly operate the loan in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e932	Thank you for the certificate from the honourable Member. For that very reason, I do not want to go into the concrete design of the solution that it is now working on. What I want to say is that we must seek a solution within the budgets adopted by the Grand Duchy, and the guidelines that follow the budget decisions of the Grand Duchy in this way. But we must also seek a solution for which the Health South Board can take responsibility. In it lies part of the balances that the representative Alvheim was in here. I expect that there will be a dialogue between Health South and the Department in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e939	I thank the Minister of Health again for the answer, and I still see it as positive for the project. So far, the expansion and modernisation of the Central Hospital in Tønsberg has been a great burden for both employees and patients over a long period of time. It is therefore very important that the maintenance of the sixth stage of construction is done according to plan, without further delays with similar problems for both patients and employees. Due to restrictions in bed capacity during construction, the central hospital in Westfold has had an extreme overcoating and corridor Asians, an overcoat that has limited to the unresponsible, both for patients and employees. Can the Minister of Health assure me that during the final phase of the sixth stage of construction, as far as possible, better facilitate normal hospital operations with regard to the number of patients, and that Health South will help to facilitate the overburden of the Central Hospital in Westfold by transferring patients to other companies in Health South?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e950	I am, like the representative Alvheim, convinced that Health Sør sees the challenges that lie in an expansion parallel to ensuring proper operation at the hospital, and that the considerations will be balanced within the scope of the responsibility that Health Sør has, and the opportunities that Health Sør has to perform patient treatment elsewhere than at the hospital in Tønsberg during the most intensive period of construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e958	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Through more strong headlines in the media lately, we have seen that we still have a very poor offer for patients suffering from severe eating disorders. Claims of serious failure of the treatment regimen to this patient group have also been reported. Will the Council of State establish specialised departments for this patient group, increase national treatment capacity and take initiatives to increase knowledge of a disease that is the most common cause of death among young women?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e967	The short answer is yes to all three questions: yes to clinical treatment provision for this special patient group, yes to increase capacity and yes to gain more knowledge. Let me elaborate on this a little bit: I agree with the representative of Bekkelem Orheim that the treatment offered to patients with severe eating disorders is not good enough. It hurts me. In particular, there are challenges related to patients who have developed serious somatic complications. It is important that the provision of treatment to them reaches an adequate level and an adequate level. This is not least a major professional challenge. As the representative knows, the Government’s strategy against eating disorders contains a wide range of actions aimed at preventing, treating and strengthening knowledge. I focus on following up this strategy plan. In the case of the most seriously ill, each health region shall develop clinical departments with a treatment offer for this group. All regional enterprises have adopted strategies for the treatment of people with eating disorders, and in the West of Health and Middle of Norway, provision for the most seriously ill is under way. I have initiated a close follow-up of the mental health follow-up plan through a separate tertiary report from health businesses. Here, the construction of offers for people with eating disorders will be particularly followed up. Over the last two years, patients with eating disorders have been treated in Sweden and England through the project ‘Buying healthcare abroad’. Per. On 15 January this year, 112 patients with severe eating disorders have been given the opportunity to receive treatment in cooperation with treatment institutions abroad. The project continues to a limited extent in 2003 with patients with eating disorders as a priority group. Increased skills are important to ensure better treatment provision for those with severe eating disorders in Norway. The 2003 State budget provides funds for the operation of a network of regional coordinators, which will contribute to the regional follow-up of the action of the Strategy Plan. In the first instance, the network shall focus its efforts on targeted and coordinated efforts at regional competence in order to ensure the establishment of specialised services for the most seriously ill. In its management of the project ‘Treatment of healthcare abroad’, the Rikstrygdeverket has placed great emphasis on the transfer of competences both for Norwegian health professionals abroad and on the procurement of foreign specialists to Norway. It is an objective to make better use of these experiences and to make better use of the overall national treatment capacity in the new network between treatment settings. I would also like to mention that in February I will sign a cooperation agreement on health cooperation between France and Norway, otherwise initiated by my predecessor, Tore Tønne. The cooperation agreement includes eating disorders. I hope in this way to help us learn from France in Norway, which has more experience than we do in this field. The ‘body and self-esteem’ competence enhancement project, which is part of the strategy plan, is also continued. This also contributes to enhancing the competence of primary health services. I would also like to stress that the preparation of individual plans is an important tool for patients who need coordinated action from different parts of the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e988	I would like to thank the Council of State for an answer that I see as very positive, that it is a political will of the Minister of Health to address the major problems associated with eating disorders, I do not think there can be any doubt. However, it may also be important that the political leadership of the department occasionally press a little in relation to the government and the professionals when it comes to putting this higher on the agenda. We had an interpellation debate in Stortinget in 1998 that just mentioned this field. At that time, Modum had 14 treatment sites. Today they have some thirty. They currently have the best competence in this field in Norway, but we still see that Modum Bad does not take in patients who have very low body weight. They often float in our system and become a throwing ball between the different departments. My specific question is: Will the Minister of Health consider setting up their own specialised departments, as they have done in Sweden with good results? If we are also able to put in place a stronger coordination of public institutions such as psychiatry, health care, county councils and municipalities, I think we have achieved a lot. But the important thing is to have a political will to push through concrete measures for this patient group.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e997	I understand the supplementary question from the representative, Bekkelem Orheim, to the point that she finds that it is such a will, and that she is concerned that it should come to terms with a pressure in relation to the service and the subjects in order to make faster progress. I can assure you that I want to contribute. That is why this is focused in the hospital management system, and as I mentioned in my main response, it will be focused on the follow-up of the hospitals, which in the area of psychiatry will take place tertiaryly, precisely for the reason that there should be a significant pressure. It's right, as the representative of Bekkemelm Orheim says, that Modum Bad has good competence. I agreed to propose an allocation for this measure initially and have proposed an increase this year, but fortunately it is also partly established, partly during establishment, new special units in all health regions. I can mention that, for example. Health Mid-Norway is now setting up a new special unit at the hospital in Levanger for the treatment of patients with severe eating disorders in this region. It underlines the importance of a good multidisciplinary offer. Here it's not just about psychiatry, because the sick are also a somatic problem that needs to be solved in an interaction.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1004	I just want to say that what we have seen over the last few years is that the treatment offered to this group has been dropped in some places in the country, among others. in Tromsø and Oslo. That is why it is important for the Minister of Health to follow closely. I see that there's a lot going on with this patient group, but in the meantime, we're constantly getting descriptions of situations that I think make a strong impression on us all, and that we won't experience in today's Health Norway. We know that this is a group that many times cannot stand upright and fight for its rights. Relatives are also often affected in such a way that they do not have the strength to cope with the struggle for resources. The next time we debate this issue in Stortinget, I hope that something has happened specifically in relation to treatment sites. We need more treatment sites, and I also hope that the Council of State can be open to alternative forms of treatment – we have that in many other areas today. I don't think there's a fascist answer to why people get this disorder. Therefore, it is important to be humble in relation to treatment and to draw widely on the different settings we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1011	I think I have the greatest degree of humility. The fact that we're looking for help from abroad, that we're looking for transfer of competences, is an expression of that. That we're betting on different offers is also an expression of it. Unfortunately, since the representative Bekkelem Orheim and I met in an interpellation debate in 1998, the scale of the problem has increased. It also helps to explain some of the pressures on the treatment system, despite the fact that some new services have been developed. What I think will be important in the future is to focus on prevention. Although there are no simple answers to why these disorders are taking place, I think it's quite obvious that being with and building human dignity, being with and building a positive self-esteem in young girls, and being involved in and counteracting the one-sided focus of advertising on the physical appearance as an expression of success, are important preventive features that need to be incorporated into both schoolwork and in other contexts where values are conveyed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1020	Question 7 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1027	‘A proposal from a board of directors of a health enterprise was: ‘The board of directors assumes that the psychiatry should not transfer resources to the somatic environment’. The majority grants money for the treatment of people with mental illness through both a stepping-up plan and through the ordinary allocations. How can the Council of State ensure that the total appropriations for psychiatry actually go to the treatment of people with mental disorders?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1034	As I have briefed the Stortinget on earlier, the department's governance proposals and conditions are very clear and clear on the Roadmap for Mental Health. The supply of mental health protection shall be strengthened in its entirety, and funds provided as part of the plan shall be used for the purposes for which they have been granted. The governance documents for 2003 for regional health enterprises clarify the allocation of mental health: ‘... the allocation shall enable the specialist health service to implement the planned strengthening of mental health protection. The conditions for the grant are that the level of activity must be continued in order to ensure that the offer in 2003 is at least at the same level as in 2002 and, in addition, supplemented by the measures resulting from funds from the escalation plan.» At the same time, I have stressed the coherence of the budgetary framework for 2003 and 2004. Therefore, the guidance document has given the indications that, in the event of non-delivery by the end of 2002 under the Road Safety Stepping Plan, this need to be corrected in the period 2003-2004. I stress that the implementation of the escalation plan involves two aspects. Firstly, there shall be a significant follow-up of the funds used for mental health. And at the same time, it is expected that conversions and restructurings will be carried out that can improve the use of the resources available. Let me add: first, conversion will often mean that something is being built down and something is being built up. We should all share a shared responsibility that in the public debate on such issues, there is no one-sided focus on what is being built up, and that fear of such reactions means that good migration actions – for the benefit of the parties and patients – are not implemented. Secondly, reductions must be avoided before new measures are put in place. This is underlined by the Ministry of Health to the regional health enterprises. Regional enterprises have followed up the governance message, but there may appear to be some uncertainties about how local health businesses have managed it again. However, it is the regional health companies who are responsible to me and who are responsible for following up the management message of the department in a loyal manner. The hospital reform is now one year old, and the reform has been implemented at a pace that is very unusual for public sector change. That means that not all of the content structures are in place. However, the Health Business Act provides for the establishment of reporting procedures between the Ministry and regional health businesses — an annual planning and reporting system. In addition, a tertiary-reporting system shall be established, in particular for the 2003 mental health escalation plan, where measures and effects shall be reviewed on the basis of the requirements of the escalation plan and the governance document. The representative of the Kristoffersen raises a question about how I want to ensure that the total appropriations for the psychiatry go for the purpose, and I have explained that I am doing it in two ways. One is to send a crystal clear management message in the governance letters to regional health companies, and the other is to require a tertiary reporting, where they have to prove that they are actually dealing with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1054	I thank you for an answer I am very pleased with. I also greatly appreciate the clear commitment of the Minister of Health in this area. I think that's very important. At the same time, I would like to stress that both this government and governments from 1997 to now have shown a continuing commitment to stepping up psychiatry. It's very important because mental disorders are a people's disease. I see from the statistics that up to 20 pst. At some point in time, the population will be able to expect to suffer from mental illness. This means, however, that the escalation plan adopted by the Stortinget is expected to be followed to the point and the point, so that the level of operation when we leave the 2006 plan is SEK 4.6 billion more than in the year to which we compare, i.e. in 1998. On the question of how the Minister ensured himself, he mentioned the governance documents – which are important, I very much agree with – and the reports. But does the Minister actually get an overview of both the means of the escalation plan and what is in the framework of such a report as one has requested?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1061	The answer to that question is yes, because the governance message under which regional health enterprises are to report focuses both on the continuation of operations at at least the same level as last year and on the addition of the new means of escalation. They need to report on this, now on a tertiary basis, from all five regional health businesses, so that some better basis to follow up on this is difficult to see that it is possible to obtain. Let me also say, since the representative's question referred to a proposal for a decision that was not adopted in a local health company: because if a particular proposal has not been adopted in a board meeting, that does not mean that the board has decided to follow a different policy. Both the representative Kristoffersen and I have such long organizational experience that we know that this is not necessarily the case. I have received insurance from Health Middle Norway that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1068	The last was reassuring to hear. I am genuinely concerned if it is such that such a proposal is not actually adopted, in the light of precisely what the Minister of Health stressed here. The means of the escalating plan plus that contained in the psychiatry allocation for the rest must give rise to growth. If one then thinks that one within the health companies, and with which the minister had a perhaps not full control, can actually do repriorities without it being reacted, there is an act across what the Storting has decided, and what the Government is now proving to be followed up to the point and the point. The last question is: when the Minister sees such reactions as I refer to here, does one then have an opportunity to check that there are actually no unfortunate priorities across what the minister stands for and will go for in relation to the decision of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1075	The answer is yes, but the systematic approach to this is the requirement for regular reporting in relation to the governance message. And with regard to what I have understood by media lookups is the starting point for the representative of Kristoffersen's question, Health Mid-Norway has confirmed that the escalation plan is being followed, and that the steering signals given in the Health Ministry's steering document have been passed on, and that they are being followed up. Then I'm calmed down.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1084	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Council of State: ‘Each third long-term disease-reported period waits more than 200 days for treatment at a cost of about 200 days. NOK 1 700 per year. 24 hours. According to Sintef, hospitals have received 30 p.m. more money in the last 10 years without having become more effective. At the same time, health cows have grown. A project in Halden Municipality has used available capacity at the hospitals. It has provided faster treatment, less health cows and lower social costs. How will the Council of State transfer these ‘ordering skills’ experience to the benefit of the entire population?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1093	The size has discussed the effectiveness of hospitals several times in the past, at the latest in an interpellation debate just under two weeks ago. At the time, I said that there is a clear need for hospitals to go through their routines to ensure that the business is not only professionally good, but that it is also cost-effective. This has been followed up by the regional health enterprises in 2002 and also in my governance message to them for 2003. There are major inequalities, among other things. at cost-level between hospitals, indicating that there is a significant potential for further efficiencies in the specialist healthcare service. It is one of the challenges of hospital reform. It is the government's clear ambition to increase the efficiency of specialist health services, so that you get healthier for each krona, while ensuring the quality of services. That is why, in line with Storting's assumptions, we have made a demand for significant efficiency improvements in 2003 as well. That this starts to have an effect, we also see that several hospitals now actually announce that they have free capacity and short waiting times, and thus can accept patients outside their natural range of exposure. We have free hospital choice here in the country, but we recognize that this scheme has not worked well enough. The government parties included in the Sem Declaration in order to extend the free hospital choice to private institutions. In November last year, the Ministry sent a proposal for a consultation on changes to the Patient Rights Act, which would extend patients’ right to the necessary health care. In this work we will build on the experience of the so-called Operation Halden. The municipality of Halden took, with the representative Dybevig in another role, a very commendable initiative a year and a half ago. There were too many patients living in the Halden area who had waited too long for hospital treatment. This had to be possible to do something about. The municipalities initiated Operation Halden, who has always worked closely and well with the Rikstrygdeverket, and on the arrangements for treatment abroad. The project has managed to provide treatment for more than 750 patients — who have averaged a waiting time of almost one year each. However, the most remarkable thing is that treatment is mainly provided in Norway, and not least in hospitals in Eastfold. So the project has made clear what has not been done in other areas: finding and using the capacity holes in the hospitals. So this happened before the hospitals themselves saw the situation and went out and told them about the available capacity. These experiences are now being followed up at national level. To support the hospital selection, a national free hospital selection unit will be established by 1 May of this year under the auspices of the Social and Health Directorate. This will cooperate with regional health enterprises, and it will depend on getting information from them. This unit shall support patients and primary health services. I am very concerned that the experience that one now has, from the Rikstrøgdeverket’s implementation of treatment as a result of the foreign bridge and from other activities, including Operation Halden, must be preserved, so that we combine the ambition of better exploitation of resources with shortening the time patients have to wait for treatment. In the design of the proposal on the Patient Rights Act, we are now considering a model based on the fact that rights to treatment that cannot be met in time by healthcare companies are to be managed by an outside-business ordering environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1108	I thank you for your answer. I agree with the Council of State that the capacity gaps in health care should be exploited. Today, it can well be said that there is no lack of provision for patients either in the public health system or in the private sector. However, there is a lack of, or lack of, the will and opportunities of the supplier – at least it has done so – to address the overall pathology of patients, and the problem is primarily the absence of a competent ordering competence for healthcare on behalf of patients. In addition to individual benefits, patients receive both a reduction in the consumption of municipal health services and a reduction in sick leave, and reduced waiting lists, better predictability of the municipality's use of rehabilitation, etc. So in the case of free hospital choice, the supplier, the manufacturer, the hospitals, is still controlling the patient's cows. What will the Council of State do to ensure that customers, patients, have direct ordering power vis-à-vis the manufacturer, the hospitals, by e.g.: the primary health service has such a function?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1117	The government implements and reinforces measures involving a greater degree of patient power, primarily by extending the patient rights law to which we committed ourselves in the Sem Declaration, which has now been consulted, and which I intend to promote for the Storting during this spring session. We have also gained a clearer distinction in the hospital reform between the ordering role of regional health companies and the executive role of local health companies, and that distinction is marked in the Health Business Act by the fact that regional health companies cannot operate hospitals directly themselves. This must be done by the underlying local health enterprises. What we are working on is a clearer distinction between these roles, and we will now, as I mentioned, in the context of violations of the patient rights law, look at the establishment of an order environment outside the enterprises, but to place it in 435 municipalities I consider very little topical.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1124	Here I share the views of the Council of State. I am also concerned that there should be some kind of equality between private and public rehabilitation institutions. Norwegian rehabilitation institutions receive approx. EUR 920 in state support for a day-to-day patient treatment, while input-driven funding is provided in addition to funds from health companies over DKK 3000 to government institutions, public institutions. This is a big inequality. I wonder if the Council of State can help to reduce the difference between private and public rehabilitation institutions in order to make better use of resources in society for the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1131	I have to remind you that the difference in public payments to the various rehabilitation institutions is largely based on the fact that they provide different types of services, and the rehabilitation services financed through input-driven financing are largely specialised hospital departments, while the private training institutions are training facilities at a lower and less specialised level. Having said that, I recognise that there is a need to develop a better funding system for private institutions and link them closer to the whole chain of healthcare services. It is also the intention of the Government to submit a proposal and endorse it in the context of the State budget, which will be implemented gradually over the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1139	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘According to the Newspaper, the Health Inspectorate’s guidelines help patients with mental illness to be diagnosed and treated in the primary health service with antidepressants before referring to the patient’s psychologist and the second line service for further treatment. [[often children and young people]] [[lucky pills]] Will the Council of State contribute to the review of the guidelines for the treatment of depression and mood disorders by the State Health Authority, so that drugs do not become the first choice of treatment decision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1148	Much indicates that depression is an increasing problem in our time. In particular, conditions where psychosocial conditions are believed to have a major impact on the development of suffering. The vast majority of patients with depression are treated in primary health care. This is in line with the usual and generally accepted division of tasks, which is considered appropriate in the future. Further referral is based on the overall assessment of the patient’s situation by the primary physician. Treatment shall always be based on an investigation and assessment of the situation, causality and severity. It is therefore essential that primary doctors set the necessary time and have the necessary competences. Drug treatment does not mean that conversation is unnecessary. The need for medical treatment depends mostly on the degree of depression. Psychological and medical treatment should complement each other, and both are necessary for severe, deep depression. The clinical guidelines for adults from the Health Authority were developed by a group from the Norwegian Psychiatric Association based on a Swedish treatment guide. Health authorities have not issued guidelines on the treatment of depression in the paediatric population. Today, national guidelines are the responsibility of the Directorate for Social and Health. The Social and Health Directorate informs me that there is a weakness in working supervisors that it has not taken the psychological and general medical disciplines into account to a large extent. The principle for the Directorate is that all new guides and guidelines should be interdisciplinary and based on the best available knowledge available in the field. The Social and Health Directorate is currently supporting a quality improvement project in the treatment of mood disorders, which is a collaborative project between the Norwegian Medical Association, the Norwegian Psychologists' Association and the Norwegian Nurses' Association, a so-called breakthrough project. The Directorate informs them that they themselves will take the initiative to develop new guidelines, including: in the light of experience gained in this project. This means that the Social and Health Directorate itself takes responsibility for correcting weaknesses revealed with regard to existing guidelines for the treatment of depression and mood disorders.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1163	I would like to thank the Minister of Health for his answer. I understand that the weakness of today's supervisor will be corrected, and that new guidance guidelines will be established in cooperation with the professional community concerned. Today, more and more children and young people are experiencing mental problems. The Minister of Health refers to the absence of guidelines for the treatment of depression in this group. Will the Minister of Health contribute to the Social and Health Directorate’s inclusion in the development of new guidelines of good guidelines for the treatment of children and young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1172	I believe that the representative of Røbekk Nørve there points out, as one of the weaknesses of today's supervisor, and I understand that this is up for assessment in the work that the Social and Health Directorate has now announced. I think it is natural to look at it, and to receive the professional and multidisciplinary lighting of both the need and the content of such targeted guidance in relation to children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1177	By going to the fight against smoke, intoxication and unhealthy lifestyles in general, the Minister of Health, through the Public Health Communication, shows that he has set himself the goal of the Nordics in general becoming healthier and healthier. Today we have too much pills in Norway. I therefore hope that the Minister of Health, together with most of us, will succeed in his treatment strategy. I have a final question for the Minister of Health: Is it possible to interpret the Minister of Health there that the signals he has given so far about replacing pills with other treatments where it is medically sound is just the beginning of the real fight against the pill society?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1184	Let me first say that pills can be and are a blessing in healthcare, and that's a very important input to help people who are sick. What we have highlighted in the communication on public health is in relation to the suffering and diagnosis where one can clearly see that changing lifestyles can be a better strategy and a more effective strategy than printing medications of different kinds. We want to stimulate, in cases where this is documented, that systematic arrangements for, for example, The training or conversion of diets shall be the first choice over pills. Some general fight against pills it's not, but there's a warning in relation to a development where one maybe a little too easily prints out a pill for everything that's bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1201	This question lapses, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1207	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Development: ‘In Ethiopia and in other countries in Africa and Asia, famine is a fact or a fact. What is being done from Norway to remedy the short-term situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1216	The food situation on the Horn of Africa and in southern Africa seems to evolve into one of the worst crises in very many years. According to the World Food Programme, up to 40 million people are at risk. The crises are the result of drought and unstable weather conditions. However, deeper structural conditions and political choices are also, to varying degrees, part of the background. The people on the Horn of Africa also experience the negative effects of war and conflict. Southern Africa is particularly vulnerable to the effects of the AIDS disaster on food production as a whole as well as on the individual infected, which are double affected. We know that emergency aid needs to be accompanied by measures that address the underlying causes. The budget for 2002 was initially set at 190 million. kr for use in natural disasters. In the autumn of 2002, the redistribution rate increased to 220 million. NOK and for 2003 it is already initially set at 220 million. kr for natural disaster aid. It is the UN, the Red Cross and Norwegian non-governmental organisations that are and will continue to be the main channels of assistance. The government was at an early stage in the negative development of the food situation on the Horn of Africa and granted 27 million. kr in natural disaster aid in the autumn of 2002. I visited Ethiopia last week. The seriousness of the situation on the Horn of Africa has made the government already dispose of another 28 million. kr for food aid to Ethiopia and Eritrea. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is now working on allocating the funds allocated to assistance in the event of natural disasters. Norway contributed by approx. Seventy-five million. for drought-related efforts in southern Africa in 2002. We aim to make a significant contribution both to southern Africa and to the Horn of Africa this year as well. In Asia, the food situation in North Korea in particular gives cause for concern. Norway provided humanitarian aid to North Korea for 27 million. in 2002. Much of this was related to food safety. We are aiming at a corresponding amount for the current year, because the situation is still critical of vulnerable groups in North Korea. I can promise the representative Jacobsen that Norway is following developments on the Horn of Africa, in southern Africa and in other countries where humanitarian crises are raging, and is assessing ongoing Norwegian support in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1233	I thank you for your answer. We know that what we do today has consequences in the long term. The problem is that today we may be doing too little in relation to the distress. I would like to ask the Minister for Development how she assesses what we are doing in the short term, in relation to resolving the distress in the long term. Could there be an inverse ratio here?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1240	I don't really see this as a contradiction. In the short term, Norway is now using considerable resources to remedy the famine in both these areas, Africa and North Korea, while at the same time making efforts to address the structural causes. Let me do an example. In Ethiopia, I had in-depth discussions with the Ethiopian authorities, also with Prime Minister Meles Zenawi and the disaster team responsible for coordinating humanitarian efforts, on the importance of taking both medium-term CAP funds to improve food security and addressing the structural, heavy issues of agricultural policy and food security on the Horn of Africa and in Ethiopia. This will now be done, and Norway has said that we are willing to cooperate with Ethiopia on this. In fact, the crisis may result in addressing these long-term issues harder than if it had been a more permanent and manageable emergency.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1247	I thank you again for your answer. The councils themselves refer to both Ethiopia and North Korea. I want to add Afghanistan. It's a little special, because there we run both with emergency aid and have a military effort. The Council of State also includes the importance of building up political structures in order to contribute to the long-term reduction of distress. I want to ask the Council of State: What kind of track does it consider to be the most important thing? Is that the multilateral UN track in relation to emergency aid, or is it the military effort that Norway is making?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1256	The reason why I did not mention Afghanistan immediately in relation to an emergency or natural disaster is that the UN reports so far indicate a somewhat better supply situation for food in Afghanistan, this year than was the case last year. But the representative is absolutely right that we should make a significant contribution on this side of Afghanistan too and help a people in need there. I don't think it's right and possible to put the actions in place to combat terrorism and secure security in Afghanistan, up against short-term and long-term assistance to an emergency population. There is no doubt that they will not be helped unless security improves and unless the control of the Afghan authorities is properly applied throughout Afghanistan. That's what we're dealing with, and that's how this relates. What we are also concerned about is that we should contribute significant funds on the medium and long-term side. So let's do that. We are actually making more money this year than last year on the aid side to ensure that people are helped and that the board can operate properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1268	I allow myself to ask a question to the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘The Council of State stated in the NRK Dagsrevyen on 18 December 2002 that the Stortinget had authorised the industry to stop production in order to sell the power on the market. What are the contracts, enterprises and formulations of the Grand Duchy as the basis for the opinions of the Council of State?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1277	The last time Stortinget dealt with this question was in connection with St.prp. No 52 for 1998-99, About State aid industrial contracts and leases. The size agreed that ‘Application restrictions on the power supply of the industry are adjusted as described in St.prp. [[1998-99]] No 52 It was called, among other things, in this context: ‘Industry also needs to be able to make adjustments to the level of activity which may result in temporary reductions in the power demand. For example, it may be due to temporary failure of prices and provisions, or repairs/restructuring of industrial installations. There is therefore a need for certain possibilities to redeploy power, either within the group or through sale out of the group.’It also states in this proposition:‘If the company is shut down or permanently restricts its operation, in order to break the restrictions on use, the starting point is that the power supply falls off or is immediately reduced.’ In addition, it states: ‘There is a strict practice in the case of temporary interruptions of restrictions of use of more than three years, and in the case of permanent closures or restrictions’. It has thus been clear for a long time that the industry can re-dispose power temporarily for up to three years. Moreover, the ability of companies to sell power temporarily in the market was not new as introduced by St.prp. No 52 for 1998-99. This may include, inter alia: is referred to as St.prp. No 104 for 1990-91 gave rise to temporary sales for up to two years for large parts of the power supply. That time it was called, among other things,\t\t You can change the ‘However, the activity of industry may vary with the economic cycle. Industry may also have a reduced power demand in construction and conversion periods. There is therefore a need for an opening for time-limited adaptations. However, the Ministry assumes that power sales from industry will not normally take place for more than two years.» It also said: ‘However, this year must not prevent industry from adapting production temporarily in dry years, situations with particularly high demand from general supply, such as cold winters, situations with particularly high network loads, etc.’.» Among the big documents I have quoted here, it is clear that for a long time it has been provided that the industry can temporarily reduce or stop production and sell power in the market. As a background to these rules, cyclical changes, operational conditions and power system-related conditions such as dry years have been identified. However, it requires flexibility in relation to the general condition that the contractual quantity be used for industrial production.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1307	We in the Workers' Party have gone through the same agreements and cannot find the basis that the State Council is now using in relation to the use of workers as an input to the electricity issue. Among other things, it says in St.prp. No 52 for 1998-99 that the reason for the sale of electricity may be due to temporary failure in prices and provision or repair and conversion of industrial plants. We can't see that it gives the owner the basis to use this as a speculation system to make more money. State Secretary Ryssdal of the Ministry of Labour and Administration has said that selling power does not provide a basis for permissives, so the employee has to go to social work. Is the request from the Council of State that this is what they should do, while paying their electricity bills?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1314	I understand, of course, that the Workers' Party has had to go through the documents to find the basis for what I also said in the Dagsrevyen on December 18th, and to which the representative Klungland refers. However, I will show that St.prp. No 104 for 1990-91, from which I quoted, gives the possibility of the wording to which the Stortinget joined at the time. I would also add that I see clearly the disadvantages this has for a number of businesses. It is not desirable, in my view, to resort to that type of power generation without this being acceptable to the employees. I would assume that many companies can combine an increased supply of power to general business maintenance. There are several companies that have been able to combine this in an excellent way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1321	Then there are some companies that have earned formidable sums to stop selling their power. So the main reason for this question is what's going on in the energy supply of Norwegian society. Will it not be the energy minister's responsibility at the end of the day to ensure that there is actually enough energy in the market? It has never been the intention of the Workers' Party to use workers in this speculation in relation to the energy prices that are now taking place. I had hoped that the Council of State and the Government would also be behind it, and that they would do something about it, with measures that could help with the energy situation we are up against. Clearly, industrial development in Norway is dependent on the introduction of new energy. Does the Council of State have any idea of future industrial development? Is it to stop the industry to sell electricity, or is it to ensure that there is power available to the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1330	I would like to point out that the representative of Klungland now asked questions about completely different things than what the question was about. I'd like to get back to that. I want to use this opportunity to refute Klungland's claim also to the entry in Dagsrevyen and his indignation that the Council of State could allow some in the power-intensive industry to sell out the power of general supply. I have shown that this is fully in line with the Stortinge decision, that it has received full support from the Workers' Party, and that I have had the necessary back coverage in the Stortinge decision to be able to accept that power for general supply for a difficult time. At the same time, I stress that it is not desirable for such an occasion to go beyond employment in this important industry. I therefore hope that the companies can combine the type of important delivery with the necessary maintenance work. There are two considerations that I think can be combined in an excellent way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1340	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘In Tønsberg, energy equivalent to 800 gigawatts — at least a pair of Alta power plants — is released into the air unused. There's waste heat from the Esso refinery on the Slagentangen. A concession has been granted for the development of district heating based on this waste heat. To date, the project has not received any grants, despite its high potential to reduce the use of electricity for heating purposes. What will the Government now do to enable this project to be realised?'
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1349	The conversion of energy use into less used electricity for heating is a priority for the Government and significant efforts are being made to follow up the 4 TWh target of increased use of waterborne heat based on new renewable energy sources, heat pumps and waste heat by 2010, a target set by the Storting. In this context, I would also like to remind you that the Storting has supported the strategy to achieve this goal, through the creation of Enova. In the option of Ot.prp. No 35 for 2000-2001 on the establishment of Enova said the majority: ‘The aim must be to provide as much as possible environmentally friendly and energy-saving units in the most cost-effective way possible.’ This is a goal that the Government follows up in the management of Enova. In other words, Enova must always support the projects that provide the most energy per year. Support crown. This implies that there will be significant competition for the funds available, which will also apply to any application for aid for the district heating project in Tønsberg, addressed by the representative of Egeland. Therefore, the assessment of the project is conditional on the submission of an application to Enova. With regard to the implementation of district heating projects in general, I would also refer to the Government's strategy for the development of waterborne heat, which was presented in 2002. The main features of this strategy include, in addition to continuing to invest in financial support through Enova and the Husbank, changes in planning and building legislation and strengthening the role and competence of municipalities. The possibilities offered by waste heat from Essos plants on the Impact Bar for the development of district heating are interesting. I have already received an invitation from party traps in Westfold to familiarize myself with these possibilities and have accepted such an invitation. As I see it, it has to be provided for district heating on the user's side, including. by means of the building rules and the spatial planning of the municipalities, in order to enable one to benefit in the long term from the large sources of waste heat provided for in Tønsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1367	I thank you for the answer, which did not bring much new. One might have thought that today's energy situation could have meant a slightly more offensive attitude. The Council of State refers to the Storting's objective of increasing the use of waterborne heat, which is a follow-up to the Kyoto Agreement. It is not enough to adopt targets. It is the implementation that counts, and then the realization of projects like this is absolutely necessary. The Council of State refers to Enova and states that there will be significant competition for the aid from here. That's where the problem lies. This project has just been too large. Is the Minister willing to accept an invitation from SV? The government and the SV, as well known, have a majority to increase Enova's funds to support the development of district heating and other alternative energy, making it monner?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1378	Both the Government and the Minister of Oil and Energy have an offensive attitude towards district heating and to new renewable energy sources, and in particular to turn energy into heating from electricity to other types of heating. There, I fully support what the representative of Aegean has now said. As far as implementation is concerned, I point out that it is Enova that is responsible for the operation, and that also the project that this is about has to compete with other projects. I agree that there is a need for substantial investment, and Enova's budgets are being established here in the Stortinget. Corrected: In addition to the fact that a charge on the network tariff goes to Enova,...In addition to the fact that parts of the electricity charge goes to Enova, money is also transferred into direct appropriations. The Stortinget has the full opportunity to assess from year to year. I see a good chance that we will be able to further strengthen the important work that Enova is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1388	I thank you for your answer. I perceive it that the minister might come back with proposals for more money to Enova, and it will receive SV's support. It is important that such a project as the Battle tangent project be realized quite soon. So a concession has been granted, and it is important that the concessionaires inform them that they will realise the project, not least because there are large construction projects going on, and if it is notified that the concession is being used, the municipality may impose connection to district heating. The alternative may be panel furnaces, unfortunately, as it has been, for example. in the recent extension of a cultural house and a hotel in Tønsberg, precisely because the concession was not ready. In the last century, politicians went to the brink of electrifying the country and expanding important infrastructure. What is important infrastructure changes. Perhaps district heating networks are such an important infrastructure now. For example, if the Council of State thinks that contributions are made: through the House Bank, so that municipalities can enter as co-owners in the district heating network?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1399	The latter, of course, has to be assessed by the responsible minister in connection with the business of the House Bank, but initially the House Bank already has funds for energy conversion and provides support for sensible energy conversion measures. It's already been taken care of. As the representative probably knows, on Friday I also presented a proposal to the Stortinget where we propose energy conversion measures for private households. So it's doing very much positive. There are two things I want to underline to the representative. One is that the municipality of Tønsberg has to do a ‘footwork’ to facilitate district heating. The second is that SV has agreed that it is Enova that will assess the individual projects and that it is not decided here in Stortinget. It is very important to respect that. I fully understand what the representative, Mr Egeland, is talking about: is the allocation to Enova large enough in relation to the important tasks we are facing? I want to assess that, and I will come back to that in the 2004 state budget. Much suggests that our commitment to the type of energy other than electricity produced by hydropower plants is now important to achieve. It has taught us not least this winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1411	I have a question for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘Norwegian business experience that today’s high price leads to lower international competitiveness. A major reason for the strong crown is the huge revenue from the oil industry. These revenues create a pressure on the economy that is being tested against tight government budgets and a high level of interest rates. Will the Council consider reducing the Norwegian oil extraction rate in order to mitigate the pressure on the krona?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1420	Most of the oil revenues are due to the country, either through its direct ownership of the oil fields, through tax receipts on the profits of the oil companies or through dividends on state holdings in oil companies. These revenues are channelled in full to the State Petroleum Fund, which invests all the money abroad. The rate of extraction in the oil sector therefore in itself does not lead to any pressure on the economy. On the other hand, there is a close link between the use of oil money on the State budget and the development of the competitiveness of industry. The longer we go about increasing the use of oil revenues, the higher the interest rate will be, and the stronger the price of oil. Therefore, the Government has placed great emphasis on holding back the use of oil revenues. In accordance with the rule of action, only the expected yield of the Petroleum Fund is used annually above the State budget. The best help that the Government and the Stortinget can give to the competitive business is to keep the government budget tight. The Norwegian krone is now stronger than the long-term competitive business. In order to reduce the exchange rate relatively quickly, lower interest rates will be an important contribution. There is an interesting assessment at the Bank of Norway today, as we know. A continued responsible budgetary policy is required. At the same time, it is also important that wage growth in the future is no higher than that of our trading partners. The spring pay bill provided a nice pay supplement for many, but overall the results were more than what the Norwegian economy can bear. The Bank of Norway therefore found it necessary to increase interest rates in order to prevent price rises from gradually becoming too high. The interest rate in Norway is clearly higher than that in international terms, and this is probably the main explanation that the krone price has increased sharply. The combination of high wage and salary increases over several years and a strong increase in the price of the crown have hit very hard the competitive business environment. The Government, through its cooperation in income policy, has put in place measures to help ensure that next year's wage settlements are more adapted to the needs of the Norwegian economy. The answer to the question from the representative Bastisen must therefore be a no, simply because the extraction rate in the oil sector in itself does not lead to any pressure on the economy. There are other issues here that will be crucial, in line with what I have just explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1435	As far as the oil fund is concerned, it has to do with the economy. We've lost NOK 125 billion in the submission of last year's government budget, so I think that's what the state council will take with us to the government. The downturn and the Government are concerned with the income of future generations. Then I think especially about the oil extraction. By preserving part of the oil under the ground, under the seabed, we are really securing the future generations. Putting the income we get into oil funds, which you can lose a lot of in the future, is not a good way to think about future generations. We have a high level of interest rates, it's difficult for young people to establish themselves in Norway, and we've got company flagging out as a result. There's still less work to be done. Will the Council of State continue on that path of extracting oil at the same rate?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1442	I just want to repeat that it is not the oil extraction rate itself that creates the problems for the Norwegian economy that the representative Bastesen points to, and that is a major challenge. That's how we use those resources and revenues of these resources in the Norwegian economy, which will be critical of how we can deal with high interest rates and high rates of interest. The representative Bastisen also asks a question about the relationship between resource management and the financial management of our oil wealth. It is an interesting question, but it does not, in and of itself, affect the basics that he points to in terms of impaired competitiveness and high priced crowns. As an oil minister, I would like to point out that it is important to keep a steady pace, not at a high pace, but at the most even pace, because it is of great importance to industry, both the oil companies' activities and the supply industry, and that is what underpins the government's policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1449	Living in this country has been terribly expensive. That's people's busy. I think they have a right to get an answer from the oil and energy minister. The more oil we find and the richer we get, the more expensive it becomes to live in this country. People have to move out of here soon. Is it really what the Council of State wants with oil extraction and our wealth, that the last one to go, to turn off the light, so we save electricity and become even richer?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1454	There's something in Bastisen's commitment that I fully agree with, that if we take too much of the wealth that comes from our oil activity, we'll have to pay for it in terms of higher interest rates, high dollar rates and weakened competitive industry. We don't want to. But I have tried in several answers to explain to the representative Bastisen our assessment of this, namely that this is not related to the oil extraction rate itself, but it is related to how we take out the values of these oil resources and pump them into the Norwegian economy. There's the Bastesen representative and I definitely agree. There we have to show understanding, otherwise there is no competitive opportunity for industry to survive. In that, Bastesen and I can agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1462	I have the following questions for the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘A number of power customers face difficulties in paying winter’s record electricity bill. BKK Net introduced last year an account scheme where electricity costs are distributed evenly throughout the year, in order to reduce payment problems in the winter. NVE stopped this on the basis of regulations. When I raised the matter last year, the Council of State was reluctant to do anything. Today, the situation is even more precarious for many power customers. Will the State Council now ensure that BKK Net and others can bill an account?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1471	This question concerns, as the representative also mentioned, a problem which I also replied to the representative Gjermund Hagesetter on 10 April last year. BKK Nett has appealed against the decision of the NVE concerning the billing of households. The NVE considered that BKK Net’s account pricing was contrary to the relevant regulations. The NVE regulation on measurement, billing and billing requires network companies to bill customers with expected annual electricity consumption above 8000 kWh at least every three months in arrears and on the basis of actual consumption. The requirement was introduced from 5 July 1999 and applies to the billing of network services and to the joint billing of network services and electric energy. The purpose of the requirement is to make consumers aware of their power consumption and its cost and thereby motivate consumers to use more efficiently. For some customers with poor paying ability, higher electricity bills in the winter can be a problem. That is also what the representative, Mr Hagesetter, is concerned about. The NVE regulation therefore allows the network company to offer customers with payment problems other means of billing, e.g. a account. However, this is an exception system based on the individual assessment of the individual customer by the transmission company. It is this provision NVE believes that BKK Net has broken its practice. Since the Ministry of Oil and Energy is the Board of Appeal and has the matter under consideration, I cannot go further into the facts of this matter now. However, the requirement for post-invoicing after actual consumption does not apply to households with expected annual consumption below 8000 kWh, i.e. that these may be invoiced in an account. Furthermore, the regulation does not include the billing of electrical energy only by electricity companies. Invoicing households and dealing with payment problems are a very topical issue in the situation we now have at record prices. I have already announced that the regulations will be reviewed so that no power company will have the opportunity to pre-invoicing its customers. After three years of work, the NVE now has a review of the regulations on billing, for example. in cooperation with the industry. One will then look at the importance of the payment stream for electricity consumption, and among other things. several network carriers have been exempted from current regulations in order to try alternative billing methods for a certain number of network customers in 2003. This whole project will be completed in 2004. I therefore see it as natural that the NVE now also assesses a clean billing of electrical energy also within this project, so that we get a broad and thorough evaluation of the legislation and get to look at different billing methods.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1484	I want to thank you for the answer, even though I wasn't quite happy with what was said. When it concerns BKK and the complaint, I have been informed that it has been withdrawn, so hiding behind the fact that it is not possible to make a decision because there is a complaint, is not quite correct. What's the point here, is that we have a payment scheme that could have caused many of the problems that arise for many customers because an inability to pay the bill, had been greatly reduced. Here we have a payment scheme that some power suppliers want to offer, and that many customers want. I don't understand why to have this delusion, and why not immediately allow this. I would like to ask the following follow-up questions: should it not be reasonable to permit this as a general offer without delay, instead of starting with a test scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1493	That the complaint has been withdrawn is new to me. I believe parts of the complaint have been withdrawn, but it is unknown to me that the entire complaint has been withdrawn. This should, of course, be investigated. With regard to the question from the representative, Mr. Hagesetter, about to allow this immediately, I point out that we now have a project in progress where we gain experience in various forms of billing. I think it makes sense to implement this project before a crash into specific schemes, which in some cases may be positive, in other cases negative. I would like to remind the representative Hagesett that pre-invoicing an account will be to improve the liquidity of the power companies, but to exacerbate the corresponding liquidity on the customer side. So there's different considerations to take here. However, among other things: I see the important question that the representative Hagesetter travels: Will not an account payment give pay-as-you-go customers a better overview of their expenses? I'm answering an unconditional yes to that. But then it has to be balanced against other considerations. We will come back to this when the NVE has been evaluated and has had its experiences summed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1502	I hear the answer from the Council of State. The point is, if one had received an account billing, which, as far as the council is concerned, one would be able to distribute the current billing over the whole year. Many social security recipients have the same income throughout the year, and thus it is also natural that one should be given the opportunity to distribute the expenditure evenly throughout the year. It also applies to electricity costs. I also hear that an evaluation should be started and that it should be completed by 2004. What I would like to ask further questions to the Council of State is: does the Council not see that there is a problem for many customers to pay their electricity bills right now? A solution that will only come into force in 2004 will not help customers with payment problems now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1509	I think it is very important that the power companies show the necessary flexibility in a situation as high electricity prices as it has recently been. Fortunately, they're going downhill. I have contacted the industry and received positive feedback: the industry is willing to admit flexible arrangements for customers with payment problems. They are also prepared to split the electricity bill in a reasonable way, so that customers who get a large electricity bill that they do not have liquidity to pay immediately have the opportunity to deduct it for a little longer time. This is the industry itself positive to. I refer to the fact that there may also be other arrangements that the power companies can help to alleviate the situation in a very special situation. Payments on account based on voluntary activity are accepted. What I have tried to highlight to the representative, Mr. Hagesetter, in relation to the payment of an account, is that it has to be agreed with the customer. It cannot be determined unilaterally by the power company. That's what was the problem in the special case that the representative Hagesetter has traveled here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1520	I have the following questions for the Minister of Education and Research: «The mountain has nearly 30000 higher education students. For these, the Student Association in Bergen has barely 2,900 student cabins. This gives you a density of 11 pst, against 15 pst. in Trondheim and 18 p.m. in Oslo. Therefore, construction in Bergen should be given priority as regards the allocation of capped appropriations. 270 Item 75 Student housing. In the vote, a majority also asks the Ministry to consider opening up different funding models for development. How will the State Council follow up to ensure more and better student housing in Bergen?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1529	In line with the Committee's comment on the budget at the end of the year. S. No 12 for 1999-2000, Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim in particular have been prioritised in the allocation of commitments to student housing in recent years. Furthermore, the allocation of commitments for 2001 provides a higher cost framework for Bergen and Trondheim, and the cost framework for commitments given in 2000 to Bergen and Trondheim was adjusted. The cost limit for student housing grants was thus raised from NOK 350000 to NOK 500000 per student housing grant. unit in Bergen and Trondheim. This is the same limit of costs that applies to Oslo. In the period 1994-1999, Bergen was promised a total of 238,5 furniture units. These commitments have been implemented. Furthermore, Bergen has been promised a total of 253 furniture units in the period 2000-2002. These commitments are being implemented. As a result of the increase in Bergen's cost framework and the prioritisation of the allocation of commitments over several years, it has facilitated the realisation of both more and better student housing in Bergen. Furthermore, Bergen will be a priority in the distribution of commitments for 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1542	I thank you for your answer. The allocation of State funds for the construction of student housing in Bergen has been too low over time in relation to the need. I have now mentioned the coverage percentage, and the Council of State has mentioned in its response what Bergen has received in earlier periods. If we look at the period from 1999 onwards, there have been applications for grants for over 1,200 flats and, as the Council of State said, 253, a relatively modest allocation. During the same period, i.e. from 1999, Oslo has been promised well over 800 flats, i.e. approx. 250 in Bergen. That's a little bit of the explanation that the coverage is as low as it is in Bergen. There has been an enquiry to the Ministry of Education from an organisation called Education in Bergen, where the institutions are behind, and also the municipality of Bergen. It's asking for help. Will Bergen now get help, help in the form of money to build more student homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1549	It is true that the representative of Sortevik believes that the coverage in Bergen is lower than in the other major cities. To be precise, Bergen now has a coverage of 11.7 p.m., while Oslo has a coverage of 19.7 p.m. and Trondheim on 14.1 p.m. On a national basis, the coverage is slightly above 15 pst. For 2003, some 200 million have been allocated. kr for student housing. It offers about 730 commitments for distribution in 2003. The Ministry has not yet fully completed the letter on the allocation of commitments, but, as I said in my first reply, Bergen will also be prioritised in the 2003 allocation, which could lead to an increase in coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1554	Then I thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1562	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: ‘AnSA’s letter of 28 November 2002 states that Norwegian students do not receive a student discount on, for example: communications in Denmark. Although one is a student in Norway and receives support from the Staten Loan Fund for Education, the Danish authorities do not grant Norwegian students the same rights as the Danish ones. In view of the agreements reached between the Nordic countries, the Council of State considers it acceptable for Norwegian students to be discriminated against, and what will the Council of State do about this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1571	We have a number of agreements and agreements between the Nordic countries in the field of education. In 1994, the Nordic countries concluded an agreement on access to higher education. The agreement was revised in 1996, extended in 1999 and no later than 2000. The agreement forms part of the overall objective of creating a Nordic educational and research community, including: ensuring that applicants from the Nordic countries are treated in the same way as their own applicants. However, the agreement does not regulate issues relating to the right to study funding and any related discount schemes. In the case of student/reiser batteries (if any), the Nordic countries have opted for different solutions. I have been made aware that in Denmark there is a need to have support from the State Education Support to access travel batteries for students. Norwegian students with loans from the Staten Loan Fund for Education will thus not be eligible for a student discount on Danish public transport. Norway, on its side, has not made similar demands. Until the end of the year, the Ministry of Education and Research was responsible for the agreement on student rebates. NSB and Hurtigruta. There has only been a requirement to be a student at a Norwegian educational institution for travel discounts. This implies that foreign students in Norway, linked to the Norwegian educational institution, have also been entitled to travel moderation. The responsibility for these agreements has been transferred since the turn of the year 2002-2003 to the Ministry of Transport. The Nordic Council of Ministers regularly discusses issues of mobility and how to remove border barriers between the Nordic countries. The Ministry of Education and Research, on behalf of the Committee of Officials for Education and Research, has undertaken to carry out a legal investigation into the status of the Nordic agreements in question, on the one hand between the Nordic countries and, on the other hand, with regard to EU law and EEA law on the other. The Government has also requested the Government to initiate the review and modernisation of Nordic agreements in the field of education in order to facilitate student exchange and recognition of education. I want to assess whether it is appropriate to address the question of student/reiserabatt arrangements in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1582	I thank you for your answer. It is quite right that the Council of State notes that there are different arrangements in the Nordic countries, and the arrangements are practised in very different ways, but with the result that most Nordic students studying across borders receive a student discount. There are almost 2,000 Norwegian students in Denmark, and there is no doubt that Denmark is the only Nordic country where the Norwegian students do not receive a student discount. I would like to ask the Council of State, assuming that only Denmark has experienced this problem, whether it is considered to address the question of Norwegian students bilaterally with Denmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1589	There is always an opportunity to address such questions bilaterally. However, as I said, I would also like to assess whether it is to be addressed in the context of the investigations to be carried out, which are of a legal nature, and which are both to look at the relations between the Nordic countries and vis-à-vis EU and EEA law. Questions have been raised both in Norway and Denmark about the two schemes, which are therefore different, may be contrary to EEA law. There is no definitive answer to it, but it is among the issues that in this case have to be assessed in the context of such an investigation. But here you can imagine both, both taking it in the investigation and, of course, raising the question bilaterally.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1594	As far as the student discount is concerned, it is clear that the students are a group with a relatively weak economy, and this question is very important for the 2,000 Norwegian students in Denmark. I just want to ask the Council of State if it feels comfortable that Norwegian students get such discrimination in Denmark, and that Denmark is the only Nordic country where you experience such discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1599	I can assure the representative that, in most bilateral contexts, where a type of scheme exists that Norwegian students do not come out so well in the country in question, I try to address questions as to whether no other arrangements can be put in place, especially if Norway has more favourable arrangements for the students coming from the country in question. So I'll be able to do that in this case as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1608	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: ‘Refers to monthly newspaper Blick, where it appears that some schools return the same newspaper, thus preventing students from receiving information. Based on the NOVA report, which shows an excess of suicides among young lesbians and homosexuals, such a tendency to censorship seems to be a logical flaw in the government's assurance that it wants to work to improve the growing-up conditions. What will the Council of State do to ensure equal access to information for all students?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1617	The general part of the curriculum deals with the principles and guidelines of primary and secondary education. It states that ‘rearing must combat prejudice and discrimination and promote mutual respect and tolerance’. Themes that you will work with across disciplines, which will go like a red thread through school years, include: family, community and homophysics. Work on issues related to puberty starts in the fifth grade, when the student is 10 years old. At this age they will discuss issues related to both reproduction and sexual identity, heterophilia and homophilia. Otherwise, the theme homophilis is addressed in different curricula in both primary and secondary education. The curriculum demands that themes such as love and sexuality in general, and sexual orientation and identity in particular, are addressed and highlighted from different angles of view. The themes of homophilis are laid down in the curriculum, binding on the school, both for primary and secondary education. It is important that children and young people are informed about homophilis. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child establishes the right to freedom of expression and to receive and disseminate information. The Convention specifies the interpersonal values which education should promote, including understanding, peace, tolerance and friendship between people, including: with different life expectancy. The purpose of the Training Act and the Apprenticeship is to meet the requirements of the Convention in this area. In order to help schools meet their educational goals in the field of life and sexuality and to contribute to the strengthening of lifelong learning, a book has been prepared for teachers on life and sexuality. The book was sent in 2001 to all teachers in youth, to secondary schools and the country’s health centres. The book has its own chapter on homophilia. As a follow-up, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education and Research have produced two information booklets on life and sexuality, one booklet for 10th grade students and one for their parents. Homophili is taken up as a theme in both booklets. The birth rate has also been translated into many minority languages. The booklets were sent to all secondary schools before Christmas 2002. The work on the resource book and the information booklets has just been undertaken to ensure equal access to information, as requested by Hall Arnøy. It is important that teachers have access to appropriate teaching materials and information material, as is the monthly newspaper Blick may be. However, it is up to the individual school owner, school owner and teacher to choose which educational tools and materials they will use in teaching. I can also mention that in a letter of 20 September 2002 to universities and colleges, the Department has recommended to these educational institutions to contribute to increased knowledge and understanding of the situation of gay and lesbian life, among others. by focusing on the theme of current education such as teacher training, health and social education, as well as medical and psychological training.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1639	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which contains many good examples of action, but perhaps especially on the teaching material side. I want to refer to Innst. S. No 254 for 2000-2001, where a Joint Family, Cultural and Administrative Committee endorses the Government's proposed measures on the information page in relation to gay and lesbian. There is one of the points explicitly mentioned, that the libraries are to be fitted in the pact with the curricula on which the students work, and it is ‘for the purpose of ensuring that the school libraries purchase literature where homophilis are drawn up differently’. At the same time, we see that school librarians, according to the statement I made here, refuse to take the monthly paper Blink as a free quote with the reason: As far as I know, we don't have homosexuals in our school. When we see these two quotations in context, does the council feel that it's done enough to get this kind of information out to the school libraries, which a unanimous growth has wanted?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1650	I don't think it's done enough to remove all prejudices or false notions about homophilis, and about gay and lesbian. However, the central authorities do not control the specific content of the school libraries. Nor is it the case that we have a system of central recognition of teaching materials. And then I think it would be very strange if the central authorities were to go in and rule at one point, namely in the case of one magazine – which could be completely OK. So it would be very strange if you were to control at this one point the extent to which schools are taking on learning materials and information materials. So I don't think it always has to be because of prejudice that not everyone takes this in, but it can of course be because of it, and at this point we all have a job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1655	Of course, I fully agree that it would be strange if a government council should go in and demand that one specific magazine, which is a commercial actor, be included in the school libraries. However, the Council of State has instruments that are milder than requiring schools to do something, such as the Council of State. In the form of letters, schools draw attention to the fact that the Stortinget has said that this type of literature should be in the school libraries. So there are possibilities for the Council of State to address this matter. Because, in my view, it seems a little strange when, as I said, school librarians refuse to take in these kinds of magazines on the grounds that ‘we don’t have homosexuals in our school’. Then it is quite clear that there is an information job to do. And in that context, I believe that the Council of State should have a responsibility, not to highlight one particular actor, but to highlight the responsibility of the schools and also the school libraries for the fact that this information is actually available to young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1660	I agree that if the kind of reasons are given, I also find it a little strange. I can promise the representative Hall Arnøy that, on a natural occasion, I will remind the schools that it is important that they have the kind of information material and teaching materials, both in support of teachers, parents and students, in order to provide the necessary information, knowledge and training. I'll be glad to do that again, when I find a natural occasion for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1669	I have the following questions to the Council of State: ‘The GATS negotiations started in 2000 and are still in progress. On this occasion, the government is responsible, inter alia, for: to work out contracts which are intended to provide the education system with the objectives set out in the contract. What does the Government focus on reaching agreement in this area, and does the Government have an active strategy to develop agreements with countries that are most attractive to Norwegian foreign students?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1678	The need for increased internationalisation in the higher education sector is strongly underlined in the quality reform. The places of study shall facilitate the provision to students who so wish of a partial study at a foreign institution as an integral part of their Norwegian degree. I would also like to stress that it is the universities and colleges themselves who are to develop their international cooperation with relevant professional communities at good foreign institutions. In particular, each institution is encouraged to conclude mutual cooperation and exchange agreements so that the number of foreign students, teachers and researchers at Norwegian institutions also increases. The government facilitates the creation and participation in education and research programmes in the Nordic countries, Europe and developing countries, to mention the most central ones. The WTO/GATS negotiations will be an important tool for achieving our common objective of increasing student and scientific mobility. We aim to increase considerably the number of students taking part-time studies at foreign universities. Norway has very favourable study funding schemes for Norwegian students abroad. We'll evaluate, as signaled in St.prp. No 1, to look at how funding for foreign studies can best serve the interests of both students and Norwegian communities. The quality reform provides for greater freedom for institutions and, consequently, it is not for the authorities to decide which cooperation partners are to have higher education institutions and which agreements they are to conclude. I am concerned that WTO policy should be linked to other university and higher education policies. It is also important to look at the WTO/GATS negotiations in both a trade policy, a development policy and an educational policy context. WTO/GATS negotiations shall address and strengthen the qualitative aspects of education services, both nationally and internationally. Furthermore, they will contribute to upgrading Norway’s efforts towards our countries of cooperation and trading partners in general, and in particular towards developing countries. I have therefore initiated a contact group for education services. This is a geographical, socio-economic and culturally complex group of countries which jointly want an open and informal discussion and exchange of experience which may lead to a common approach in the negotiations on education services. Through the Government's involvement in the GATS negotiations on education services, we will contribute to the development of an open and fair regulatory framework capable of safeguarding the interests of both rich and poor countries in this area. The Pan-European Lisbon Convention and other corresponding regional conventions and agreements and their requirements for quality, transparency and student rights are key elements of the Government’s negotiating strategy. There are many actors in the so-called education market. Large exporters such as the United States and Australia have claimed market access for their educational services. Norway is a major importer of educational services, as are many small countries and many developing countries. Our main interest is that Norwegian students should have access to high-quality education and that exporters should not provide inferior education services, for example: in developing countries. The government’s objective is to strengthen the responsibility of national authorities for the development of higher education, regardless of whether the offer is publicly or privately funded. Education is, and must remain, a public responsibility. In order to ensure that our negotiations achieve key education policy objectives in the best possible way, we have focused on ongoing dialogue with the sector in Norway. As late as yesterday, therefore, a large information meeting was concluded with broad participation both from the education sector and from the responsible authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1704	I thank the Council of State for the answer. However, she chose on this important issue not to touch at all the economy that lies in the school money that each student has to pay, whether they are studying in Australia, America, Europe or where it might be they want to study. It is a fact that the Norwegian State only spends about half a billion kroner a year in fees grants. This is a significant amount. When we know that EU countries do not want to discuss education as a trade in GATS, Norway has a problem, as it looks like the United Kingdom, which is a desirable country of study, does not have the same rules for EEA citizens as they have for EU citizens, given school money. I would like to ask the Council of State if they are moving the thoughts of the GATS negotiations to the EEA negotiations that we are now entering into.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1713	I think you have to partly view this as separate matters. I actually affected the funding for foreign students in my post. I said that the way we signaled in St.prp. No 1 for 2002-2003, we will look at how funding for foreign studies can best serve the interests of both students and Norwegian communities. There has already been a major seminar on student funding for foreign students, which is almost a starting point for an investigation to be carried out, and with time and time, of course, we will return to the Stortinget. But precisely because we have in ourselves many students who want to study outside, and because the Norwegian community spends a lot of money on this, we are of course as a society, but also, of course, these students themselves, interested in the quality of the education they are applying for. What I consider to be the most important thing in relation to the WTO negotiations is to have fair driving rules for the trade that is already taking place; secondly, that the quality aspect of education is given priority; and thirdly, that we do not contribute to a regime that allows rich countries to dump poor education in poorer countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1720	That's good and good what the Council says, but it's a fact that when we buy educational places at recognised universities, both in America and in England, for example, Norwegian students pay up to $100,000 a year on average for their place of study. Our financing scheme is a refund of more than NOK 50 000 per person. years in fees grants, which means that students who choose to take full education and not just part-time training in Norway have a loss of income due to lack of negotiations and lack of agreements on equal treatment, at NOK 50000 per year. years. Will the Council of State address the problem of these agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1725	Now you can say that it's the students who buy these places, more than in and for themselves the Norwegian state, and in the future I expect that we'll see as part of the quality reform that there are more institutions agreeing with other institutions on student exchange. However, in the context of WTO negotiations, Norway – already open or accessible in the Uruguay Round for foreign students, teachers, institutions and other educational services – has made some demands. One of those requirements is that tuition fees and other student-related matters should be non-discriminatory.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1733	This question, from the Olav Akssen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be raised by the representative Ranveig Frøiland.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1736	I will ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘According to the media, there is a strong growth in the number of farmed fish that escapes. This leads to greater economic losses, but can also have significant environmental consequences, including: for the wild axis. What is done to prevent escape and fix the problem with escaped fish?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1745	Escape of wild breeds is one of the major challenges in Norwegian aquaculture. Fish that escape represent a risk factor in relation to wild populations, both by potential spread of disease and by re-infliction, and in addition results in both an economic loss to the industry and loss of reputation. From 1997 onwards, reported escape rates fell from 650 000 escaped fish to less than 350 000 in 2000, but then increased again in 2002 to about 630000 fish. These are unacceptable high numbers. I have therefore put in place both processes and measures to reduce the figures. Both the authorities and industry work in many fields to get the escape figures down. I can mention that it includes both cause and effect monitoring, control, regulatory improvements, operational requirements and research and development. All aspects of this issue will be carefully examined in the context of the ongoing work on a three-year implementation plan against escape, as outlined in St.meld. No 12 for 2001-2002 Clean and rich seas. The Ministry of Fisheries intends to adopt a system of technical standard requirements for installations used in breeding activities during the summer of 2003. The draft standard is being prepared and the regulation will be sent for consultation during the spring. The legislation will apply to new installations from 1 January 2004. The operational regulatory framework is also under evaluation and will be amended and improved in terms of procedures and requirements. In addition, preventive measures and the introduction of internal controls on farms are being undertaken. In addition, the Directorate of Fisheries, when set up, has a Commission of Investigation for Serious Escape and Site Shavari, and it is working to ensure more reliable escape rates, because the darkness figures may be ugly. Fishing authorities carry out annual physical plant technical checks on about 30 pst. by the installations. These controls contribute significantly to improving technical conditions in installations and also include the control and supervision of health, the environment and operational conditions. This will be further strengthened when we get technical standards in place at new plants from 1 January 2004. Information on legislation and follow-up measures shall be strengthened. More stringent reactions shall be introduced in the event of breach of the rules, including the withdrawal of concessions in the event of serious or repeated infringements. The research community has an escape as its own field of activity and will give priority to knowledge-building in this field in the high future. Secondly, the industry has made it clear to me not later than Christmas that they will now strengthen their work on operational procedures, operational measures and research to prevent escape, financed primarily through the research funds of the fisheries and aquaculture industries. Last but not least, the authorities, in cooperation with the industry, will also look at better training for those working in the facilities, for there is undoubtedly potential for improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1771	I am pleased that the Council of State is so strongly stressing that this is unacceptable. We're a few of them about that. I also think we are some of them that something has to be done quickly, and I am pleased with the measures the Council of State refers to. But this with regulatory review and technical standards, which are out on the ears – which the Council of State has in mind – means minimum standards of excellence, that is, that they must be of a certain quality? Does that mean that one makes sure that the boats that run into the merdane should be in order with the propeller, so that they don't tear up the merdane? Can the council say anything more about the concrete things, because here it is unlikely that one is on the offensive both in relation to the economy, of course, and not least in relation to the environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1778	Firstly, it is clear that Norwegian farming technology is one of the best in the world. In the 1990s, manufacturers have been extremely concerned about obtaining technical standards. Unfortunately, there has been a field that has not been prioritised enough. But when I joined the Council of State, we immediately seized it, and it has been satisfied with both the breeders and the manufacturers of equipment. What that means is that we're going to have the minimum standards implemented, as I said, from 1 January 2004 for new plants, and then we're going to have a reasonable time for previous plants to adapt to that standard. It will be to ensure a standard that prevents escape either because of storms or because of collisions etc. But at the end of the day, there is a great deal about the attitude of those who own and those who work at the facilities to ensure that the necessary measures are taken in day-to-day operations to prevent escape, because the current levels of escape are totally unacceptable. We have also made this quite clear in the case of the collapse proposition on Norwegian salmon fjords located in Stortinget, where we have made it quite clear that the extent that is at present can have very unfortunate effects on the wild species. So once again, this is high priority of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1785	I thank you for your answer. It is clear that when you see that the number, which was initially reduced, and one might think that one now had overview and control of it, the path again, one must be very attentive to both what is happening and what one can put in place by remedial measures. This with training, which the Council pointed to here in the first answer, I believe is extremely important in this context. But if I don't feel happy, because there's too many fish that swim freely and run for it, then at least I feel that from the authorities' side, it's a desire to take action that can make you get control of this in a completely different way. And then one has to be careful, because things can change. That's what's happened in the last few years. It's not that once and for all you can fix it without doing anything with the code. We'll probably come back to the specific legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1792	I note that we share the concern, and I am pleased that it is expressed that we feel that we are taking this into account by the department. But I share the representative's concern that we have had such a strong growth – first a decline, and then a strong growth. Of course, it can also be related to coincidences. But we can't settle down on that. I have no doubt that both on the training side, as the representative stressed so strongly, and on the technical standard side, there is potential for improvement. And we have to do that, otherwise the industry's reputation as an environmental industry will also be damaged, and the industry cannot live with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1808	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1814	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘After the replacement of locomotives and wagons with motor vehicles of type BM 93, also known as Agenda, in the day-train on the Northern Railway, travellers on this section of the track have been offered a severely degraded offer. The type of train is missing both the children’s compartment, the bistro coach and the rest-chair department, which the previous day train had. In addition, the train type does not tolerate Northern Norwegian winter. What will the Council of State do to ensure a decent passenger train service on the Nordlandsbanen?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1823	The framework agreement between the Ministry of Transport and the NSB on the purchase by the State of passenger transport services for the period 2003-2006 and in the 2003 purchase agreement, which was dealt with by the Stortinget in connection with the 2003 State Budget, suggests that the Nordlandsbahn is operated by new motor vehicles, Agenda trains, on all day-train departures both in sub-areas and by continuous trains between Trondheim and Bodø. Furthermore, it is assumed that night and night trains on the route are still operated by locomotive and wagons. The new Agenda trains on the Nordlandsbahn shorten the journey time between Bodø and Trondheim by one hour. This has made it possible to have more take-offs on the sections, while the additional Agenda set can be used on commuter routes where the old day train was not allowed to take advantage of it. This is reflected in the new routes from 15 December, where there are more departures than before between Salten and Helgeland and between Mo in Rana and the Mo Sea. The Salt pendulum between Rognan/Fauske and Bodø also increases from six to eight daily departures. Thus, when examining the 2003 State Budget, an overall Committee on Transport, including the representative of the Central Party, stated the following: ‘The Committee will demonstrate that the introduction of the Agenda Trains means that travel time on the Nordland Railway has decreased, the take-offs have become more and better adapted to local traffic.’ I am therefore surprised that the representative of Enoxsen seems to believe that replacing old trains with new trains, short journey times and increasing the number of departures, is a major reduction in the offer. I am aware that there have been some technical problems with the phase-in of the new trains. The NSB and the supplier are constantly working to eliminate what is, hopefully, children’s disease. The NSB has already taken comfort-promoting measures. A section of the train sets has been converted to provide a better distance between the chairs and more luggage space. In one trainset, chairs of the same type as in the Signature trains, which are the NSB long-range trains, are tested. This train set was put into circulation on the Nordlandsbahn in November. Customer feedback will determine whether this is to be done in several trains. The food service offer is also further developed. I see it as of course that the NSB adapts the material to the market the trains have to operate, and that the NSB is now continuously collecting knowledge and adapting the phase-in of the train type in terms of power in new and old markets and comfort for those who travel far. The aim must be both more passengers, satisfied passengers and a train offer to make the train competitive on both short and long distances.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1843	Of course, it is possible to be satisfied that there have been several departures and shorter travel times, without being satisfied with the train offer as it appears in its entirety. So there's no difference between what the Center Party said in budgetary terms, and the fact that we also want better comfort and not least service compared to those who use the train. I assume that the Council of State and I agree that it is a goal that as much as possible travel by train between Trondheim and Bodø, and that the train should be a real alternative to aircraft. That's why I'm somewhat uncertain about what the Council of State actually said. It's okay that the NSB continuously assesses what's most appropriate, but we know that this also depends on what kind of framework conditions NSB gets from political authorities. My question to the Council of State is then: What does the Council of State intend to do to improve train provision on the Nordlandsbahn in addition to the measures already in place – because I note that there are still a lot of complaints about the train offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1850	As I pointed out in my answer, a number of measures are currently being taken to improve the situation of NSB’s services on the Nordlandsbanen. When these measures are implemented, I think it's done because they're going to have an effect, and because we have a common goal, both I as the Council of State, NSB as a company and the representative of Enoxsen, that the train offer is to be a good offer. It should be an attractive offer, so that people find it most beneficial actually to choose the train along the Northern Railway. That is why we are delighted that we now have a better offer than we have had, and several departures also on local routes, not only on the Trondheim–Bodø route. For me, it's important that we make the most of it, and I feel that the NSB does, and that's why we spend a total of 1.3 billion kroner on the purchase of passenger transport services from the NSB this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1855	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree with the Council of State on the objective, but let me just briefly conclude by asking the Council of State: does this mean that the Council of State is now responding, that she will follow closely the developments in relation to the Agenda train on the Northern Ireland track and is prepared to put in place further measures if it should still prove that the offer is being perceived as being too poor?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1862	I can assure you that I am following developments closely, because we have received reactions that indicate that some people do not experience that they have a good enough offer. It is important to me that the train offer on the Nordlandsbanen should be good, and I know that the NSB is also busy. That's why we all have a common goal of doing something about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1867	We're going back to question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1874	This question, from the representative Morten Lund to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Transport who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1877	I have the following questions to the Minister for Transport: ‘The new approach to facilitating increased use of bicycles is estimated at 4-5 times the cost, according to St.meld. No 16 for 2002-2003 on public health policy. Many of the benefits will come from public health budgets distributed over many years. Does the Council of State consider it necessary that investments in walking and cycling roads, which provide so much future savings, should wait for appropriations in the same queue as ordinary operating resources above the State budget?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1886	Surveys of the Nordic travel habits show that half of all journeys by car are shorter than five kilometres. Even in the shortest journeys, less than a mile, half is by car. This clearly shows, in my view, that we have a great potential to increase the use of bicycles. It will be good for public health and the environment, and it can reduce the need for expensive, land-intensive road development through residential and outdoor areas. For me, therefore, a better cycling policy is important, and it will be part of a good transport policy. The Ministry of Transport has asked the Directorate of Road to start working on a national bicycle strategy. In this work, among other things: Cyclistene National Association an important participant. I propose that this strategy be included in the work of the National Transport Plan 2006-2015. A proposal for a bike strategy will be presented during the spring. The key elements of a national cycle strategy must be to speed up the identification of bicycle tracks and to provide more space for the cyclist in the streets, among others. by opening up bicycles in both directions, also in one-way roadways, and by expanding and maintaining continuous pedestrian and bicycle road networks. I understand the question so that the representative Morten Lund believes that funds should be earmarked for the construction of walking and cycling roads within the budget for national road investments. Within the county-divided riksvograms significant funds are used on walking and cycling roads. The annual budgets show how much is planned to be spent on the basis of the action programmes drawn up on the basis of the examination of the national transport plan by the Stortinge. In 2003, around 360 million will be used. kr for the construction of walking and cycling roads and during the current NTP period 2002-2011 construction of 600 km of walking and cycling roads is envisaged. In this context, I would like to stress that the county has a decisive influence on the priorities of the district framework. In the treatment of St.meld. No 31 for 2000-2001, on the division of tasks between state, county and municipality, the Stortinget, including the Centre Party, concluded. It is also true that the construction of walking and cycling roads is not the only measure that brings socio-economic benefits. Many road safety measures have been estimated to have a very good socio-economic impact. In particular, promotion and environmental and collective actions will be an important contribution to improving people’s health and well-being. I believe that the priority of these purposes must be seen in conjunction with those who know best where the shoe prints. I believe that is done in today's management system, where local authorities have great influence.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1905	I thank you for your answer. The question was asked to the Minister of Health, because I expected that since it was written about this in a health report, it was because it would be a priority for what had good health benefits. That's what these calculations show. Investment in bicycle paths is again five times, and it is largely in the form of health gains. One billion dollars a year over ten years, it costs enough to get bike paths in the dents. It should be able to give 50 billion dollars in profit in the next few years. Then you should be able to say that we want that profit, and we want to get it fast. I don't think we're going to be able to get a prevention without thinking differently about budgeting. In this context, prevention measures need to be put ahead of, for example: vehicle affordability. That's why I asked the question as I did. Do we think that we can get the prevention needed to reduce health costs without making a separate queue for such investments in prevention?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1914	For me, preventing good health is also facilitating a safer traffic view than what we have today. This means that road safety is extremely important for this government. A systematic and good review of their condition is also important as part of promoting better public health. We have to see the whole thing. At the same time, I would like to remind you that, last and foremost, we are talking about priorities that are partly done at municipal and county level. The rapporteurs and the county rapporteurs of the Central Party also adopted a joint opinion last year expressing strong concerns about the national politicians' zeal for detailed governance of the local government sector. As far as I remember, the central party rapporteurs went in for less state detail management, and they thought it was local customisation and weighing that gives the most efficient use of funds. I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1921	I agree with what has been said that local priority is good. In the case of an area where it is so obvious that profits and savings will come into the hands of the state, largely, the extra funds should clearly also be over the state budget. When the profitability of the extra investments is so high, there should not be so much to wonder about. The state will have the greatest savings in prevention in this area and in a number of other areas, and savings will be rapid. Getting more people to ride a bicycle obviously requires more and safer bike paths. I would have preferred that the escalation of the investments that we are talking about started next year instead of 2006. I think it's a long time to wait when such huge gains can be made. This question will be further addressed in the context of this message, and I hope that in the course of the treatment it will be found that the whole Stortinget wants to continue developing walking and cycling roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1928	I have to say I'm a little surprised at what's being said here, because the profit is going to benefit people. There's no question about the state or the municipalities, it benefits people. It's like we also have local authorities that have a co-inference here, and it's important to exploit it. As I say, it's important to get people to go, it's important to get people to ride, and it's important to make people to travel collectively and contribute to an overall better environment that, once again, is an important contribution to better health. We have to facilitate all modes of transport. We're going to make facilities for cyclists. A wide range of measures can now be implemented. We have, as I mentioned in my answer, a significant effort to invest in walking and cycling roads. It also actually remains to make people use these rationally. It's not just building the bike paths, we also have to get people to use them. We have examples of investments that have not resulted in increased cycling activity. So here it's about creating attitudes both at school, at home and in society too. It's about everyone having to contribute, not just the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1935	Let's move on to question 24.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1949	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1974	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1981	This question, from the representative Svein Roald Hansen to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1984	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Council of State: ‘The County of Eastfold has refused the expansion of several businesses in a business area in Dikevejen, Fredrikstad, based on the peak of purchasing centres, even if the business is less than 2 500 m2. This prohibition violates the Land and Transport Plan of the Lower Glomma region, which states that traffic-generating activities are to be built in this area. Will the Council of State ensure that the county underpins the spatial and transport plan for dealing with such matters in this area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e1993	In the Lower Glomma region, there has been cooperation between municipalities, regional government agencies and the county council to develop guidelines on the pattern of development in the region. The current plan was approved by the Ministry in 1996. I am aware that the plan is now under review. In general, I would like to say that such plans for urban regions can help coordinate planning in the municipalities concerned. With regard to Dikevejen in Fredrikstad, to which the representative Hansen refers, the Ministry of the Environment has recently decided a complaint against the decision of the county council to refuse to grant building permits in Dikevejen 41 – for the benefit of the complainant. The Ministry considers that the national policy provisions on temporary stoppage of purchasing centres do not apply in the case because the relevant regulatory plan has been adopted, valid and effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e2004	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that the ministry has converted the decision made by the county, assuming that the county by it notices the signal and bases this on future cases of a similar nature. However, the answer is somewhat more narrow than the problem raised in the question, because the land and transport plan requires that the traffic-generating activity should preferably be established in the area between the cities of Sarpsborg and Fredrikstad, where this area is located. This means that there may be future issues, both regulatory matters and some construction matters, which, in my opinion, have to be assessed differently than if there had been a normal purchasing centre that would be established outside the city zone. If the municipality cannot use this type of land, that means that one has to find other land, that is to say, spread commercial activity instead of collecting it, and achieve the opposite of what is the purpose of the land and transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e2013	I understand that the representative Hansen in a way asks whether the county should base the land and transport plan on such matters in this area. I would like to say that when the answer is given here, it is based on this individual matter. In general, however, regional plans in the form of district plans are indicative and should be used as a basis for municipal planning. In this specific case in Dikewegen, a regulatory plan has been adopted that is legally valid and from which this concrete construction case must be dealt with. This is the basis for the Ministry's assessment in this case as well. With regard to the follow-up to the stopover of the purchasing centre, it is assumed that the county councils are preparing new regional plans for the structure of the centre. This work is under way in Eastfold, and the plan is expected to be forwarded to the Ministry of Environmental Protection for approval at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e2020	I would also like to thank you for the additional response and interpret it positively. I hope that the county also takes note of this, so that you can avoid new rounds of time-consuming and costly appeals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e2025	Does the Council of State wish to respond?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e2028	Nothing more than that the regional state tends to be responsive to communication with the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e2043	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-22.ana.ud2673e2056	There is no record.
