ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e37	President-in-Office Jørgen Kosmo, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e42	The President will propose the election of two presidents of the Grand Duchy's meetings on Tuesday and Wednesday – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e47	I allow myself to propose Anne Berit Andersen and Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e52	Anne Berit Andersen and Øyvind Halleraker are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Anne Berit Andersen and Øyvind Halleraker are unanimously elected presidents of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings. Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e57	On behalf of the representatives of Bendiks H. Arnesen, Reidar Sandal, Asmund Kristoffersen and myself, I allow myself to propose the establishment of a State guarantee for operating grants to the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e62	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e76	The first speaker is Grethe Fossli – for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e79	This case includes the country's ownership of three enterprises. It is Raufoss ASA, NOAH Holding AS and Moxy Trucks AS respectively. In the case of Raufoss ASA, the Ministry of Economic Affairs is asking the Ministry of Economic Affairs for a power of attorney from the Stortinget to take a position on the Board's proposal for decisions relating to the sale of the companies of Raufoss ASA and to the power to liquidate the State's ownership in the remainder of the Raufoss group on a permanent basis from the board and in consultation with other shareholders. The issue of NOAH Holding concerns the sale of the business of Brevik to Norcem AS and the power to reduce the State’s holdings in NOAH Holding AS down to zero, possibly selling all or part of the business of Langøya to private persons. Finally, it is the authority of the Stortinget to extend the duration of the State guarantee for operating credit of 30 million. kr to Moxy Trucks AS by 12 months until 31 December 2003. To take the principle first: not long ago the Storting dealt with the ownership message. In its examination, a large majority of the Committee stated that: ‘The majority cannot see that the Government has provided an adequate response to how best to manage the state’s interests. The majority will therefore ask for a sample to be set up to look at how to better organise state ownership. This sample should work quickly.» In addition, the majority decided to ask the Government to set up a rapid-working sample in order to have a broad review with a view to better organisation and management of state ownership. We have recorded that the Government has reduced the sample and that they have been given a deadline of 1 March 2004. We believe that this is not very fast-working. At the speed the Government is now presenting issues about changes in ownership structure and sales of state enterprises, the result may be that most companies may be sold before the sample is finished, if we don't stop it in Stortinget. It is a very unsatisfactory deadline that has been set, and we are therefore asking the Government to come back to the Storting with a plan for better governance of state ownership, so that the Storing can deal with it in the spring of 2004. We assume that the Government follows up this. So to the issues. A large majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, supports the proposal to extend the duration of the State guarantee to Moxy Trucks. In the case of NOAH Holding, a majority supports the proposal to sell the plant in Brevik to Norcem. Any sale of the company on Langøya in Holmestrand is so little justified and investigated in the proposition that we cannot support this as the case exists. If the government gets more concrete plans, they have to come back to Stortinget with one thing. Then it's Raufoss ASA. The working party is in the majority who will authorise the Government to assess and, where appropriate, approve the Board's proposal for a decision on the sale of establishments in Raufoss ASA. The background to our support is that there have only been positive signals from all environments on Raufoss, which has been crucial for us. In this context, we have been briefed through several meetings with the Raufoss community and the two municipalities concerned on the plans for the creation of an innovation company in the region. Many have pointed out that the lack of economic development is a problem for Inland Norway, and that just such an industrial environment as Raufoss should be a place where business development and innovation should be at the heart of it. We from the Workers' Party have always been ready to go in for the establishment of such a company, but so that it was not possible to get a majority for such a proposal in the Stortinget. We have therefore chosen to join in asking the Government to consider participating in the creation of this innovation company. We would like to ask the Government, from the Labour Party, to follow up on this matter. It should be able to provide the Government with a good track record in the development of industry in an otherwise difficult area of the country and in a difficult time for Norwegian industry. We need all the good forces we can reach, and they should be supported by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e106	The representative of Fossli has given a clear account of the Committee's work. Let me just first say that this case illustrates in many ways the necessity and importance of the government having the necessary powers to deal with changing situations also in companies where the state is a heavy owner, or has interests, where we often see that time obtains what can bear the mark of having a kind of long-term political horizon. It is clearly documented in all three companies involved in this process. It does not in any way demonstrate any kind of political desire — some point out that this in many ways reflects a kind of desire for privatisation as such — although it is both desirable and necessary. What we need to do is a necessary process to reduce state ownership in Norwegian business and in Norwegian business development, while strengthening the conditions of private ownership. With regard to these three companies, the economic situation has in many ways resulted in developments, led by the Board of Directors and the General Assembly, reaching a turning point where necessary decisions need to be taken concerning communities, employees and owners. And the state is a heavy owner in all of these companies. As Grethe Fossli had in mind, there is largely a unanimous committee behind most of the solutions. It is in the case of a separation of the NOAH Holding AS, in fact with regard to giving the necessary authority requested by the Government, to either sell itself down and down completely or to go for a privatisation solution of this part of the NOAH plant in Lang Island, which is currently going well financially. Fortunately, on this point too, the Government has obtained a majority, this time by means of the Progress Party. In the case of NOAH first, a good solution has been found by Norcem taking over the plant in Brevik. I think in these cases, as in other cases, the state level of ownership is initially no guarantee of economic success. It is not decisive either for the purpose of the job to be done or for securing the jobs. On the contrary. In the case of waste management – problem waste, inorganic or organic – it is more than enough that the State sets the conditions and standards for how this is to be handled, and not as we have seen in this case, that indirect contributions have also been made to the fact that others who could have been involved in this area have almost been asked to reduce their commitment and their pace in the interests of the high level of government involvement, which ends with the fact that when one phases out their ownership of the NOAH and possibly takes the current decision on Brevik, there is a considerable financial loss left on the hands of the State. But my conclusion is that today this is getting a good solution from Stortinget. In the case of Moxy, there is also evidence of evolution. Although significant developments in reorganization and production have been demonstrated for this year, the economic problems surrounding the enterprise remain significant. I am pleased that you now conclude by continuing the guarantee of 30 million kroner. kr, in order to achieve a year-long objective of new and increased equity, while at the same time looking at other ownership solutions that can be the best for the company, for the market, and not least for employees. In the case of Raufoss, one has also come into a situation where it is quite clear that there is an hourglass that is about to run out. I am also pleased with the conclusion that it seems that the Stortinget is coming to today, where the necessary powers are given to go further around the purchase of the company. Today, we have been brought with us through the case files who is the actor, in which direction the company's business idea is to be further developed, and the possibility of securing the jobs in Raufoss by Euralcom entering as the new owner of the majority of the Raufoss ASA group. The committee was just a week ago on tour in and around the company, and there's no doubt that the industrial cluster we get presented at Raufoss, we'll do everything we can to keep and further develop. We have too few such innovative industrial environments in Norway. Although we want to question whether the economic strength of Euralcom is heavy and good enough, I think we are all confident that in today's situation this must be the only right choice to bring the company forward, so that you can clean up the processes of car production that you are doing, and ensure that you develop further the commitments you have, in further cooperation with the General Motors Group and through the establishment of a new factory in Canada. As far as the Committee's comments are concerned, it is a unanimous committee that asks the Government to consider participating in an innovation company in the Raufoss region. I do not think there is any major political disagreement about the wording. The discussion was in many ways concentrated around what kind of financial resources would remain in the case of any trade after the transactions that had to be made. And since the uncertainty about both what lies in environmental clean-up and other conditions, is as great as it is, I think it was the best and closest formulation on which it was possible to land. Finally, just a few words about the decision taken in June 2002 in relation to the ownership notification, to which all the parties with the exception of the government parties were present and on which we are today committed to follow up. I am not so sure how much this question has to do with this matter. I think – if we think about it – that it has very little to do with this matter. But it was a large marshall that the majority of the population blamed the government, and it is quite correct that in connection with the extensive task that was imposed on the government, it was also requested that the sample work quickly. It is a heavy, comprehensive and robust mandate of the Reinertsen Committee, which is also very complex, and it is extremely comprehensive and complex that the sample is working on. I also see with interest that a few of the parties now in the setting request that this sample also be assigned a few additional tasks. I cannot quite name the impression being made that the work I have taken on is not going fast enough. However, we take note of the wish that has now been re-established by the Committee that this work will have to lead to a major review in spring 2004. This can and must – I assume – lead to a somewhat reduced scope for the consultation round of which such work would normally be part. But at least it should not mean that the important and necessary work being done by the Reinertsen Committee is now getting a kind of disfigured release, because then we have achieved nothing, neither the opposition nor the government parties, of what we really wanted with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e132	The size is currently treating an aggregate proposition. In two of the three ownership cases — Raufoss ASA and NOAH Holding AS — the issue is to liquidate or reduce State ownership, while the third is to extend the State operating credit guarantee of Moxy Trucks AS. To take Raufoss first: a basic agreement has been reached between Euralcom and the Board of Raufoss on the group's total industrial activities, in the form of an input sale. The discount is currently authorised to sell, while the shareholders take a final decision on the sale proposal at an extraordinary general meeting by the end of January. The board and management have long worked to find an industrial solution, so that the business can have a future at Toten. In the last few years, Raufoss has closed and sold a number of companies, so that today the company appears to be a focused supplier of aluminium suspension components with production activities at Raufoss, and a new factory under construction in Montreal, Canada. In addition, the company has kept the coupling factory at Raufoss with the products brake pipe couplings and water and gas connections. One should be clear: if Raufoss is to succeed in maintaining and further developing a profitable competitive industry based on the industrial competence of Raufoss, the company must be able to use the national competence network in light metal and forming materials and be able to become a global player within its core areas. This will require significant international growth. The volume of turnover that the company can achieve through its own growth will be significantly too low to bear the costs of being present in the global market for automotive suppliers and the costs of continuous product development. Realists have come to realize that it is necessary to become a global player with significantly greater turnover in order to survive. When dealing with the ownership message last year, the board presented three opportunities for development. One alternative could be that Raufoss buys up other actors in the international market, which would require a significant injection of new equity. Other options could be the purchase or merger of Raufoss with one or more appropriate actors. There has been a widespread perception that today's owners have not been prepared to raise fresh capital in the company. A solution with a new share issue aimed at others in the market has also been considered to be unrealistic. A transfer to Euralcom therefore appears, as it stands today, to be the only realistic option. The option could, in the worst case, mean bankruptcy or managed liquidation. And even though Raufoss now disappears as a brand name, integration into the Euralcom group can open up considerable opportunities. Although in Norway we have no significant car industry, far from the big customers and have higher compensation of employees than competitors, Norwegian producers export cars for more than 4 billion kroner per year. Some niches in car production, including what we find at Raufoss, attract both customers and investors. And Euralcom is a holding company that owns a number of industrial companies across Europe and in Brazil. They put a lot of money on aluminium products. As a result, companies become complementary and can eliminate synergies. It's of course very interesting for Euralcom to get better access to and be able to strengthen its position in the North American market. Raufoss is building a factory in Canada to supply the US market with suspension. This bet is known to be based on a major US General Motors order. When examining the ownership notification, several political parties considered that the product spectrum at Raufoss could expose the company to slaughter. Fortunately, for the time being, there is no sign of it. Looking at the strategy adopted by Euralcom in its investments in carpentry production in several European countries, that is exactly the opposite. Their strategy seems to allow businesses to continue the development and production of what they are good at, and rather to derive the benefits of linking different producers together in an industrial network. What will be crucial in the long term for whether Euralcom will be interested in investing in Toten will, of course, be a sufficiently competitive production. High competence and strong concentration in the area of product development have strengthened the position of a significant supplier within the relevant niches of systems and components of the global truck and passenger car industry. Now, when this is introduced in a larger context with an ownership structure that makes Raufoss part of a global network in the automotive industry, new opportunities are opened up. This can provide good industrial solutions while resolving a tight financial situation. Nevertheless, it is easy to see that the production of Raufoss can get it tough. There will be pressure between international demand for ever-lower price and high quality products and the extraordinary cost level. Let's hope that you have muscles to meet future challenges in both product development and ongoing modernisation of production. The Progress Party has, following an overall assessment, concluded that we will support the Government's proposal to empower a new ownership structure and provide an opportunity to liquidate the country's ownership in the remainder of the Raufoss group. The Progress Party also supports the Government’s proposals for the sale of the NOAH Holding plant in Brevik to Norcem AS and to provide opportunities to reduce the country’s shares in the Lang Island business. There is no longer any significant reason for the state to be the owner, in our view. The country shall ensure that Norway complies with its international obligations with regard to its domestic treatment capacity for special waste. In the case of Moxy Trucks, neither will the Progress Party this time support the Government's proposal to extend the State guarantee for operational credit. We have been opposed to proposals for both state capital and guarantees for the business for every year as it has been. And the Hartmark Consulting report of December 2000, which was an independent review and assessment of the situation and plans of Moxy Trucks, says that the company has a good product, has a significant sale and can be established as a profitable company. If that is and has been true, there should be no problem in getting private to engage, we believe. Finally, some comments to the option I. The entire Committee endorses the proposal for better governance of state ownership and a plan to strengthen private ownership. This is a direct follow-up of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the proposals and reasoning of the Centre's Party that emerged from the treatment of the ownership message. The lack of a national business strategy has already led to a significant branching of Norwegian business. In Norway, the State will be a significant owner of Norwegian businesses even in the time to come. It is important to professionalise state ownership. The Progress Party believes it is necessary to build the most watertight bulkheads between the role of authority and the business role, which we would like to see added to various funds, based on our own boards, statutes and business ethics. Furthermore, it is important to improve opportunities for private business investment by ensuring internationally competitive framework conditions. For this reason, the Statistics Committee should have high progress in its work, because it is urgent to develop a comprehensive plan to strengthen private ownership and better organisation of State interests. It is urgent to develop a comprehensive ownership strategy, which contains long-term instruments to safeguard national ownership. We can't have it as it is today, when one sees at the time of a sale that the values disappear completely planlessly to the oil fund, without any special ringing effects on Norwegian business. This has to change, and it's urgent!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e166	When we had an open hearing on the ownership announcement, the CEO of the Kongsberg Group, the Korsøen, said that the state has been a very good owner, and that the state was an owner he also wanted in the future. We thought that was an unusually positive and interesting statement from one of our leading business leaders. But when we get the case from the government, it seems that you have abdidicated completely in relation to ownership in Norwegian business. Almost no effort will be made to have strong Norwegian ownership in the future. You want to get rid of it, whether it's on Raufoss, or it's in waste management, that we're dealing with today. For us in SV it is quite incomprehensible. We believe that instead of resigning when things conflict, one should rather take a seam in the neck and try to improve and make sure that one becomes even more capable of doing his job, so that these businesses are profitable, and that one ensures the jobs. This debate is therefore about a little more than three companies. It is a little about ideology, and whether the state should have a responsibility in terms of securing important jobs and developing important businesses in Norway. So we're going in SV to the sale in Raufoss and the like in relation to the NOAH. In the case of Moxy Trucks and this guarantee, we agree with the Government's proposal to extend the warranty on Moxy Trucks. In the end, I'll take up a relationship. This applies to employees who today experience a change of ownership and feel insecure and uncertain about it. We want a set of rules and laws on how to manage employees in the event of a change of ownership, in order to clarify driving rules that help to ensure the rights of employees. This will lead to less unrest, and it will lead – we believe – to a much better climate when such processes are in progress. Finally, I would like to address the two proposals that SV has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e179	The representative Ryan has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e182	It has great significance how a manager and organisation of state ownership in relation to future value creation. In order to contribute to the best possible future value creation, state ownership should be as optimally aligned as possible. State ownership must be particularly sound in order for the State to bind capital. Otherwise, one should consider selling out. One should consider reducing the extent of state ownership and managing and organising state ownership in a good way. It is of great value to create space for more private ownership in Norway through other measures to stimulate ownership environment and to improve the framework of Norwegian ownership. In the Property Message setting, it was suggested that you create a selection that would look at how you could better organise your state ownership. Also, the government has set up a fast-working selection to get a wide-ranging review with a view to better organisation and administration of state ownership. This is an extensive and demanding work. The State Ownership Selection has been reduced and will be nominated by 1 March 2004. In its opinion, the Committee recommends that the Government submit a case to the Storting on better management of State ownership and a plan to strengthen private ownership so that it can be managed in the Spring 2004 Stortingen. In this context, it is important to be aware and to understand that the challenges facing business are many and comprehensive. It is about globalisation, internationalisation, cost reduction, relocation, wage growth, high dollar rates and high interest rates. This situation calls for a comprehensive review of many aspects, and this is something that the Government is going to put forward, through an action plan for a holistic innovation policy that will facilitate creativity, start-ups and industrial development. This means that we have to be thorough, but still work in a way that will help the business. So to the businesses it's going to be: Raufoss, Moxy and NOAH. The reason why the issue of ownership change for these now has been raised is that situations have arisen, among other things. update the hall of ownership or watering down the state ownership. Therefore, the Government has requested authorisation to take the necessary measures in relation to its ownership. I would like to give tribute to the Minister of Industry for taking the right initiative, and I am pleased that the Committee will conclude strongly on the recommendations and powers requested by the Government. I have good faith that these three ownership environments can be passed on in a positive way, with the new orientation set out in this Decision. The impression we got when we visited Raufoss last week was very positive. I hope that in the future, too, the state can be an important player and ensure that this environment is passed on at a reasonable and stable level.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e197	I will briefly touch on three aspects relating to the matter that are being dealt with today, starting with the more general picture. Some of the comments made by the Committee today on ownership and the issue of strengthening private ownership need to be considered in the light of the debate on the ownership notification last June. In the context of the communication of ownership, a majority in the United Kingdom expressed frustration at the lack of national nutrition strategy and national ownership strategy. There was also some background to the majority asking for a plan to strengthen private ownership, and a plan for better governance of state ownership, so that the Storting had an opportunity to discuss it. Then we are in the situation that there are still individual issues where there are issues of ownership, while at the same time we see that what we wanted as a rapid-working sample should take the time until 1 March 2004 to present a position, and then a matter should be prepared by the Government. It is difficult to see that it can be reconciled with the definition of a fast-working sample. It's almost three quarters of a year since the Stortinget decided to come back with that kind of plan for discussion for the Stortinget, and it took almost six months before the department set up that state ownership committee. Then I think it is remarkable that the representative Kristiansen here today suggests that it may be the opposition and the majority of the Stortinget's fault if the sample to the seventh and last will have difficult working conditions, or will have scarce opportunities to conduct hearings rounds. He should have thought of that when the government spent such a long time actually getting the sample set up. I think it is important that the majority today repeat exactly those demands of the Government. It is important now that the Stortinge has the opportunity to discuss how to better manage our state ownership and how to strengthen private ownership in the years to come. I think it's going to be hugely important, not least when during the last harvest you see a lot of businesses struggling. It can also be seen that a number of possibilities, which could perhaps have been used to strengthen Norwegian business life in those areas where we are best, are not being used. I'm thinking, for example. that we have literally had ABB for the last harvest of the sale. The question is whether the State of Norway should also have seen it as an opportunity to purchase something that could have been important in relation to Norwegian business strategies. I think it is important to mention these elements, because they are important in relation to the proposal made by the majority here, and the comments made by the vote on those points. In the case of the Center Party, we will not be able to vote for the state to be authorized to fully liquidate its ownership of Raufoss. I see some of the elements that are related to the situation Raufoss is up in. I also see that there have been difficult balances, not least locally, but on the part of the Centre Party we are not ready to give authority to a full liquidation of ownership. We still believe that it should be possible for the state to be able to hold a holding of up to 34 p.m., regardless of which alliances Raufoss is involved in the future. Nevertheless, when there is a majority in favour of giving full authority to the liquidation of state ownership, it is important to provide for the creation of an innovation company in which the State also participates, a company that can provide new opportunities for industrial development in the region. We are so cautious about the Committee's requests at that point, but I would like to stress, like the Labour Party representative, that, on the part of the Centre Party, we regard it as extremely important and as a prerequisite for the state to participate in the creation of that type of innovation company and to contribute to further development in the region in the light of the new conditions. As regards the NOAH, there is agreement within the Committee on what is going on sale in relation to Brevik. But I have to say, as the Workers' Party and SV stand here, the Centre Party is also very critical of the fact that almost without justification in the proposition you are going to help sell out businesses on the Lang Island at Holmestrand without any more thorough preparations related to it. Furthermore, the Centre Party will support IV, which concerns guarantees for extended operational credit to Moxy Trucks.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e216	The work on ownership issues now takes place on two levels. On one and more superior level, we are working on following up Storting's treatment of the ownership message, among others. in the case of better governance and organisation of state ownership. On the other hand, as owners, we need to take a continuous view of the individual issues involved, as in this joint proposition that we are dealing with here today in the Stortinget. Businesses live their own lives – I was about to say – regardless of both government and big business. They depend on an economy. They depend on global developments, the evolution of the market, the needs of customers, the opportunities for cooperation with others and the other innovation research and development that takes place. An active and interested owner must always be prepared to decide on some of these aspects, which also imply changes in the company. If we are to follow the overall objectives of ownership to ensure good industrial development for companies and develop the values of the country, this also requires a high degree of flexibility in addition to tight and good ownership. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade must therefore, as its owner, monitor the development of the companies and present ongoing issues to the Storting where this is required after the current administrative arrangements. The three companies we are dealing with today have suffered some serious losses in different ways. They have to write off losses in the hundreds of millions of dollars class. So it's not just the yellow legs you've got engaged in. That struck me when the representative Arnstad talked about buying an ABB. These are problems that need to be solved. There are questions that need to be resolved, and questions of this kind cannot wait. That voting against is a right that you definitely have, but it's not entirely uninteresting to hear what you have to put in place. In these cases, I can really see nothing but to connect them intravenously to the treasury to get this to. Indeed, financial security is needed in order to operate this type of company. As far as Raufoss ASA is concerned, the majority has joined the proposal in the proposal. Unfortunately, we have to realize that there are significant values that have been introduced into Raufoss in recent years, through partial privatisation and listing in 1990, the sale of the aluminium business to Hydro in 1996-1997 and the sale of the shareholding in Nammo AS to the State in 2000. All of this is essentially lost. It's money that's gone. An agreement with Euralcom could continue to bet on new installations for the production of aluminium and wheel components on Raufoss and in Canada. But it's not yet negotiated. The so-called due diligence process, with a thorough technical and legal review of Raufoss ASA, has taken longer than it was supposed to. There is still uncertainty as to whether, and to what extent, there will be funds that can be returned to the shareholders, at least when this could happen. We're wise, today at least, not to assume that this is going to be a very large amount. Otherwise, it must be assumed that it will take a relatively long time. Raufoss" stock exchange value, which is an indication of the market assessment of the residual value in Raufoss per. today on the upper edge of 40 million. kr. In 1996, the quoted value of Raufoss was approx. $800 million. kr. So it's got a lot of taxpayers' money in the ocean since then. The proposal that the State should participate in a new innovation company in the Raufoss region with potential revenues from the sale or possible liquidation of Raufoss ASA, I think it's wise to postpone until you've seen what's going on. That said, it must not be such that the absence of residual value is essential for the engagement of industry in this area. You should essentially have the opposite starting point. Because the less it's left, the worse it indicates that it's gone. The State has an obligation to enter into the troublesome regions related to the closure of corner stone holdings. But in this case, it is to take care of the jobs that we do what we do. There is also – I would not mention – a significant environmental obligation of undefined size related to both emissions to and landfill in Mjösa after hundreds of years of old sins. These may be costly issues, which may far exceed what becomes the country’s share in any sale. This will take time to clarify. As I said in the proposition, I assume that the state as a shareholder of 51 pst. shall take its relative share of this, and that is the fact that the private shareholders also have a responsibility in that way. In the case of NOAH Holding AS, the majority have joined the sale of the Brevik plant and authorised the Government to reduce its ownership of the rest of the company, possibly selling all or part of the business on Lang Island at Holmestrand. The operation of the NOAH has now started in an ordinary operating phase and it appears appropriate to liquidate the State holding by involving long-term strategic industrial owners to participate in the development of a facility for the treatment of special waste. Obviously, prior to the implementation of such a process, the importance of the Langøya for the treatment of inorganic waste, contaminated land and contaminated sediments needs to be clarified. Where appropriate, consideration should also be given to ensuring the Lang Island as an open-air area once in the future when landfills have to be filled. The board of NOAH Holding AS has worked in agreement with all shareholders of the company for the purpose of selling the business. Significant funds have been invested in the development of the Brevik plant, and most of it will now have to be written off. The Brevik facility provides an environmentally sound and industrially sound solution for organic special waste in Norway. Through the sale to Norcem, the plant is continued. At the same time, the management has managed to find a solution for ownership in relation to the activities related to inorganic special waste and landfill in Lang Island, where the financial results have been good in recent years. The minority shareholders of the company want an industrial solution implemented through a sale. In order to achieve good solutions for the NOAH Lang Island, it is important to focus on operations so that long-term ownership can be established. None of today's shareholders seem willing to contribute more capital. The shareholders of the NOAH have earned the right time and in a way that is good for obtaining the best price, while safeguarding the interests of the buyer and the creditors of the company. The sales authorisation given to the Government today will help to ensure the necessary flexibility. As the Business Committee was informed in writing about earlier this month, it is now in principle agreed that the Spelka Group in Ålesund, as previously owned 51 pst. of the shares in Moxy Trucks, acquires the country's remaining shares in Moxy for the net sum of NOK 1. Game will convert loans into new equity in Moxy and seek to add fresh equity to the company. That's part of the agreement. the extension of the State guarantee for an operating loan of 30 million. kr, supported by the majority of the Committee, is a necessary condition for the implementation of this sales arrangements. Moxy Trucks hasn't had an easy development. Planned performance improvements have taken longer than foreseen. Moxy has a lot of debt and needs to increase funding for necessary production growth. The guarantee will provide Moxy with a better basis for strengthening the capital base and continuing its efforts to move towards profitable operations. We can see through this that of the 50 million. kr that the government took into new equity in April 2001, we are left with 25.5 million. NOK that we received in the first sale, and then the one kroner that we now have in store. With this decision, after very many years of state ownership, Moxy will now become a wholly private enterprise with a temporary State guarantee. It's definitely going to be interesting to follow on with Moxy. I think they have a good product and that it is a market for it. It's an enterprise that can go further with the right owners, and I see them as interested, and that they have the capital structure necessary to take the business further. In kilograms. Res. On 15 November 2002, the Political Affairs Committee was set up. The committee has been mandated to review and assess the organisation of state ownership in companies where the State is a whole or a joint venture and where the activities are mainly of a commercial nature. On the basis of the sample investigation, the government will then go to Stortinget with a separate case about different models for a professional exercise of state ownership – I almost kept to say – because the Storting will not have this kind of debate. I have noticed that Stortinget wants the work in connection with the Statsierschaftscommittee to have a drive that allows Stortinget to deal with the matter in the spring of 2004. Of course, I will do my utmost to get this done and will discuss with the sample leader how the work can be done on this basis. However, I cannot fail to point out that it is a very comprehensive investigation we have started here. These are very large values for the state, and these are definitely complex constitutional and administrative issues. We're not allowed to go easily over such questions. In addition, a public inquiry shall, as has been mentioned, be consulted. We can shorten some of the consultation deadlines, but it is quite clear that it would be clear that it would be preferable to base the investigation on the work to be done. I fully admit that the reduction of the sample could have been done a month before, or even a half, possibly. On the other hand, I can't see that it's going to be crucial for the time horizon under which you're going to work. The representative Arnstad was particularly concerned with the time horizon they had received in relation to the reduction of a public sample. In reviewing the record of previous times in this area, I found that there are very few NOUs that have been presented in such a short time as this will be done. However, my responsibility is to file a case for Stortinget, and then I see how much of the work that can be done, depending on whether it is done or not. But when we're going to evaluate the organisation of ownership that amounts to several hundred billion kroner, I think it would be a very bad idea if the basis were so thin that in some way you don't think it's enough to take a decision on something so serious. It is serious to move ownership out of direct constitutional governance during accumulation and government to other administrative bodies. I have also looked at the development of some of these companies that we have under ministry management, including the Swedish Social Security Fund and others, and the administration we have had of them. There's no clear answer to what's best, but I think it's definitely interesting to figure it out. For my part, I have in no way concluded in advance what will be commendable.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e256	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e260	I've been following the Raufoss environment for many years, since the time we used to call it ‘military enterprises’, and it was only a small production that took place there in relation to now. This environment has evolved, and it has become an area of mass knowledge and with a great deal of commitment. So, in the difficult situation at Raufoss, they have given an extensive hand by coming up with the idea of an innovation company – an industrial Norway that is struggling, and a domestic Norway that is struggling even more. The government has not recently been particularly proud of its commitment to the industry. Both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Industry have said that the closures are not so dangerous because new businesses are coming. But these new ones need help, and I think the Council's reference to the proposal to participate in a new innovation company in the Raufoss environment was very woolly. From the Labour Party we did not choose to promote our own proposal, but we agreed on a majority proposal because we thought that the government parties here in the Stortinget were positive for such a creation. I do not trace such a positive attitude in the posts of the Council of State, and I would like to get his comment on whether the Government at all assesses and wants to be part of such an innovation company.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e267	It's in this context, as in so many others: you hear what you want to hear. When it comes to setting up an innovation company in this area, I think the idea related to it is good. What I'm asking you is why you should connect it to a possible gain when you sell Raufoss. Now if it's going to be zero, does it follow that you don't? At my discretion you have to look at the specificities of this area, and it may be that you do not have time to wait until this sales process is completed, until you do something about it. The idea – I was saying all ideas – related to triggering innovation, innovation and development, is very good. This is a strong industrial cluster with which there is definitely reason to move on. I am fully aware of all the competence accumulated in this area from 1896, when production was started, and it must be carried on. If it's best to wait until you've figured out if there's 10 or 20 or no million left on the sale of Raufoss, what I'm really asking questions about. I think it is important to assess continuously whether other measures should be put in place and not to sit and wait for this. The representative of Fossli said that the government – and that was in particular the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Industry – had little to say about its industrial and industrial policy. Then the representative may think about the parts of the policy that we have pursued from the previous government, and there she may have a point.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e278	The Economic and Social Committee has long been concerned about a comprehensive plan to strengthen private ownership in Norway, and we have also seen the need to professionalise the country’s own ownership. We know what's going on: some companies are now being laid down, confused or moved out of business. The last, great example of that is our shipping, where offshore businesses are now flagging out. It's all worrying, because it's an industry that has proved its excellence for many years. Nevertheless, this is about to happen. It's worrying, and we're all concerned about that. But of course, there is no contradiction between opening up some businesses where the state is engaged and also the main shareholder, when it makes sense to do so. We have an intention agreement at Raufoss between Raufoss and Euralcom, and you have a due diligence review. But there is no guarantee that Euralcom will really realize this. They now have access to the accounts, agreements and whatever it may be, and see if these figures are consistent with the information they have previously received. My question to the Council of State is: if it turns out that there is no match, and Euralcom, even though it may be unlikely, is withdrawing, do you have any plan B from the Government, so that you don't stand back completely defying if it becomes a reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e285	Of course, it's quite right what Hedstrom says when he refers to the ownership message, related to getting a comprehensive plan for government ownership management, and underlines the need to strengthen private ownership. I want to say that in the long term, it is perhaps the last point that is absolutely important, and there will then be several occasions also in the follow-up to the Skauge Committee, not least in terms of how we deal with the tax on wealth, which is of great importance for the possibility of building up private capital that can go into businesses. So the representative Hedstrøm says that there are no guarantees related to the intention agreement that has been made, and what it could bring in the future. No, it's like that, as in the worn-out expression, that it's hard to predict, especially about the future. But I'm not choosing to think about what's the alternative to this. Now I want to put the implementing power into realizing what's lying there, with what I think is an industrially competent owner, and try to get it in place. What would have to be of planes B and C, I'll have to pick up at the time it gets up. I absolutely believe that this is going on. I see the board as having faith in what we're running on, and that's what I'm putting all the power in being able to realize, because of the state's values on the one hand – but there's not much left, so there's not much to do – and because of the industrial environment and the employees of these companies. I have, in fact, seen marginal economic interests in isolation at the hand of the state to care for. As long as you're talking about an exchange value of 40 million. kr, the state owns 50 pst., and there are significant environmental liabilities, there are other things that are “driven” to get this done, and that is what I concentrate on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e292	I have three questions for the Minister of Industry. Question 1: Is it such that the government will now give priority to cleaning up old environmental sins at Raufoss? Question 2: Is it to understand that the Minister of Industry will be an active driver of getting the innovation company at Raufoss, that he takes the Storting's request seriously and works actively to get such an innovation company in place? And question 3: The councils have in many ways acted like a seller of state property. The last hint was that at least for a few moments, he assesses, as far as I understand, to sell Statkraft. Is it so that the Council of State Gabrielsen has an ambition in its time as the Council of State to sell as much state property as possible, so that he can go off like the Council of State that was best in the class in that area? Now, I guess there's no problem, maybe, that the price always gets so high. Once we have heard that Moxy Trucks AS will be sold for a penny, the sales made by the Council of State will not lead to any major problems for the Norwegian Bank or the Ministry of Finance or who it would be.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e299	There were three questions. First, the environmental issue related to Raufoss, and whether the Government will be a driver: the government is a driver, and it is enough to mention the name of the Minister of Environmental Protection to make it relatively far ahead in the consciousness of most people. With regard to the history of Raufoss, it is the company itself that has to do the cleanup based on their dialogue with environmental protection authorities, both locally, regionally and nationally. It is the environmental sinner who has to pay for this, and in this company, the state owns 50 pst. So in relation to this, with innovation companies, if the Council of State will be an active driver. Yes, let me turn to the tile and say it's interesting to see that there are more people who are starting to engage in this. We said for approx. Three months ago, in the context of the 2004 State Budget, we are going to present a comprehensive innovation plan, which applies not only to Raufoss and that area, but also to Lindesnes to Nordkapp, to trigger all the good ideas that we have in relation to continuing the skills of many clusters and businesses. So that's where the representative Ryan can be absolutely sure that the Council of States will be a driving force. So the question related to Statkraft. The representative Ryan suspected the Council of State for ‘in a few hours’ to sell out Statkraft. I have no current plans for sales, sales, mergers per. today, related to State power. We are working on one matter, which we announced to Stortinget last year, namely to convert State power from state enterprises to a limited liability company, in order for Statekraft to have the same commercial conditions in the market as other players and not be equipped with an extra turn bag full of greystone. It's my business per year. today – nothing else.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e308	Several have not asked for the word for a line. In order to wind up this morning's meeting, the President will now propose that the remaining speakers who have been received have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e313	I'll be allowed to say a little bit about Raufoss ASA. The business area of what remains of Raufoss ASA is currently brake pipe coupling products, aluminium wheel suspension for the automotive industry, as well as components and systems for the water and gas industries. The most important markets today are the European commercial vehicle and passenger car industry. Unfortunately, the result of the Raufoss group has been weak in recent times. There have been low profitability and significant accounting losses. As of 1996, the group had a total of 246 million. kr in accumulated post-tax losses. The company's financial situation and poor performance mean that there is a need to put in place a long-term financial solution for the company. The principal agreement with the Dutch Euralcom, measured at the current exchange rate, prices equity at between 90 and 100 million. kr. Compared to 1990 and 1996-97, as previously mentioned by the Council of State, the values are currently only one eighth. The parties agree on a valuation of the company for sales of 400 million. kr based on the total business value. The structure of the Board of Directors implies a new ownership structure with international angles and industrial and financial strength to continue the main part of the activities of the Raufoss group. In particular, the implementation of the company's capital-intensive investment in the chassis contract with General Motors is important. A new factory at Raufoss is in production, and a new plant in Canada is being produced in 2003. These developments present additional challenges for the formulation of Norwegian business policy, and it is very important to pursue an active policy of innovation and to facilitate creativity, ideas and start-ups. Here's the idea of an innovation company at Raufoss is exciting and forward-looking thinking. Raufoss has undergone major changes over the last few years, but despite all these changes, so far it has been successful, and it has largely been successful in the areas where there have been changes, and we also hope that it will be with the new company. At the same time, I hope that the Government will return to the Stortinget as soon as possible with the creation of an innovation company. Because it's this company like Raufoss and the Inland so badly needed in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e326	State halls can never be a goal in themselves. I can't help but understand that state ownership, as long as he is exercised consciously and professionally, will be one of the best for both Norway and Norwegian companies, and be involved in and secure Norwegian operations here in the country. However, when we go to the hall of Raufoss ASA, it's because of the rather clear positive signal from the environment, both in the companies and among them added, that one in relation to the situation that Raufoss is currently in, maybe overall, has come up with a good solution. So let's see what this intention agreement with Euralcom will lead to. What I want to focus on is the general problem facing both Raufoss ASA, the business environment at Raufoss and other competitive business. They participate in many ways in an international championship every single day – a championship that they actually depend on to win, at least in their fields. The government meets this largely with the following answers: It should be a tight budget, and there should be tax breaks. And one refers to what business wants. Yes, I have listened to it too, but at the same time I meet a business life, among other things. in Raufoss, which states that there is also a need for a more targeted action on nutrition policy. SND's been cut in his field. Many of the good programs they had have been greatly reduced and gone. In such a situation, a strong commitment to research and education and interaction between this and industry are at least very important. In connection with the sale, Raufoss ASA, Oppland County Municipality and SIVA have taken the initiative of an in-country innovation company, where they want to use any released funds to strengthen the innovation needed in the country. There is also a strong regional involvement behind this, and for SIVA such an establishment would be with and create an efficient and good structure for SIVA's innovation activity in the inland. Elles also has the Raufoss environment today exciting links to Norway's leading technology environment, among others. by Sintef having entered the owner’s page of the technology company of Raufoss ASA. Now the Minister of Industry was in this position and expressed a good will. But I sincerely hope that it will be more than a good will. Here you need an active state involvement. The Minister of Industry says that it is wise to postpone this, but I disagree. Whatever the sale here, it's necessary for the state to go in and get this innovation company in place. That's my call to the Minister of Industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e337	It is now allocated in total over 300 million. kr in different ways to NOAH AS, and much has been lost, especially on the Brevik project. It is therefore gratifying that there is now a large majority to sell out the business in Brevik, which has been very little successful. It is only SV who will continue to let the state own such a waste, which undoubtedly has also put the jobs at risk at Langøya in Holmestrand, where the business is currently going well. It is claimed in the comments from SV that there is no automatic contrast between public ownership and good business development. It is possible, but a number of experiences of state ownership – of which we are actually dealing with three here today – show that such ideas can be quickly developed. It is alarming that there is no desire to facilitate a business structure in the NOAH that ensures the jobs of the profitable part of Lang Island. The losses in Brevik have been of such a size, and because of the agreements concluded in the future will also be of such a size that they would be very unfortunate for the further business out on Lang Island. Reasons that future returns will be within the range of 25 million. NOK 400 million for something you have invested. kri and losing a two-digit million amount each year are rather advanced economic considerations. I've seen it go against the state sale of the Brevik department for purely ideological reasons. I think that's okay, but it would be better if you instead of putting it into incomprehensible arguments and unsustainable economic reasoning, maybe you said more clearly about it. The government has also asked for authority to restructure the rest of the NOAH Holding and is given a majority to do so. This is very important for the further development of Holmestrand out on the Lang Island. In the situation the company has been in, there has been a great uncertainty about the Brevik project. By getting more private capital, which hopefully evaluates risks in other ways, I think we can prevent similar projects, and we can also secure jobs. During the whole winter, there have been considerable concerns for Norwegian industrial workplaces in this room from both the case rapporteur's party and from SV. In this situation and in this case, the ownership and responsibility of the same industrial workplaces has a very concrete opportunity to participate in the restructuring of existing industries which can ensure a significant number of jobs, where solutions are recommended by a responsible board of directors and financial advisors. I have to say that then it is surprising to note that the same critics of industrial policy do not want to participate in concrete solutions for the jobs they are employed in, but rather choose to risk both national funds and jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e350	It's actually a little bit historical, I think Raufoss ASA today is no longer going to be on the hands of the state. So 106 years of state ownership is over with what we're going to adopt today. What is now said by the Committee on an Innovation Centre, I choose to look at positively, even though I have heard the Minister of Industry – and as we say in Hadeland: it's a little late for him on that very question. But I think of it as a step closer to getting an innovation company at Raufoss in place. It can be reassuring, and in my opinion, the government cannot come back and say: this is not our case, because there was no money left on the sale of Raufoss ASA. The state has built up the industrial environment at Raufoss for over 100 years and has been a good owner. It's only in recent years that with the state that owns it, it's been a little scanty. I believe that the state has a responsibility for the development of Inland Norway. The Upland State and SIVA, together with the rapporteurs in the region, have taken the initiative to put an innovation company in place domestically. If funds are released from the sale of Raufoss ASA, I believe they should of course go to new capital in such an innovation company. There is a lot to suggest – after what I heard the Minister of Industry say – that there will be close to zero dollars left, but it must not prevent the Government from going in the next round with funds for such an innovation company. I actually believe that the government's ambition should be at least 100 million. kr. It would be unnecessary to tell the Minister of Industry about the challenges facing the whole of the country, with increasing unemployment and a great need – and I stress, a great need – for economic development. I actually expect a positive follow-up, and not least – I ask the Minister of Industry to notice: the whole district is waiting for answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e360	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 1682]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e376	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 15 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Progress Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Centre Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the Coastal Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines of response following the insertion of main speakers from each party group and five lines of response following the insertion of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e383	So now we are going to talk about toll financing for trade projects and measures in the Tønsberg area. I believe that the future will show that this is an important and necessary step for the area, both to make it more accessible and to improve the air for those who behave there. Right now there are many, as far as I can understand on a different basis, who are opposed to the Tønsberg package – some because they don't want such a bet to improve the area, some because they're against the whole or part of the package, some because they think that the state should pay, and some because they want other solutions. I am pleased that several shades have emerged locally, each time, both in terms of the scale, content and funding of this Tønsberg package. Very many people want something to happen, and it's the fastest. For us in the Labour Party, it is important to support local initiatives to address major challenges to society that have clear multiples behind them – not because we love projects that are fully or partially toll-funded, but because we realize that we are unable to follow up all good actions with government promises. We understand, and support, that people locally take the initiative to solve the problems they encounter in everyday life where they live and work. It's basically just to take off the hat for those who are trying to find solutions, and not thinking populist and short-sighted. So far, the bulk of the progress over this large-scale period has been multiplied by 100 million. NOK plus 150 million. In addition, even after this, the national transport plan has several national transport plans. The way up to the rises of the level with the Advance Party will, seems to be met by a rather massive and repressive bomb. There isn't going to be any multiples. This is not a realistic alternative, nor does it help people in the Tønsberg area. SV joins to reject the Tønsberg package in this round. This is not what is widely supported by the local government in the three cooperating municipalities at the meeting. In the short term, this will lead to a further deterioration of the urban situation, leading to the postponement of measures that could improve the situation. I know the Tønsberg area very well. It is a nice area where it is attractive to stay, work and vacation. In the municipalities of Tønsberg, Nøtterøy and Tjøme, there are 47 000 people, while a collective housing and labour market covers approx. Eighty thousand. In addition, everyone comes to the area on weekends and in the summer. Traffic is increasing, and the environmental problems in Tønsberg city are extensive. Therefore, the Labour Party supports the Government and Government Party in this matter. The case is handled as it should locally – all the municipalities and all the parties made it clear that they would hold the last municipal elections if they would be in favour of exceptional funding or not to resolve the major and increasing traffic problems in the area. People knew this when they voiced it. This must be as democratic as it can be. Now we have come to the moment of truth; after the decision today it is only to start. The Timber Mountain Package is divided into two phases and has a frame of $2.6 billion. In the first phase, the end of the Ringveg east-west Kjelle–Kilen, the pedestrian and cycle path Rv Kjøpmannskjær–World and immediate action to improve the appearance of the central hospital will be prioritised. In addition, Phase 2 projects are currently covered by the breakdown: new Nøtterøy link and new traffic solution for the Teie area, new East-West link through the Presterøjsen as well as measures for public transport. The planned funding is mainly based on tolls and 5 pst. State part. Of course, we'll get back on the road, including that. depend on local priorities. Of course, minorities will do good for their eyesight. The Majority – Government Party and Workers Party – supports the submission. We see it as absolutely necessary to carry out a strong upgrading of collective provision, road standards and to facilitate soft road users in the Tønsberg area. It is important to develop a holistic transport system in order to improve the emergence and removal of transit traffic in Tønsberg centre and other local centres. The same majority have noticed that no proposals have been made to strengthen phase 1 collective action and we believe that this must be given greater priority in phase 2. In an area of so dense population and many road users who travel relatively short, it would be quite topical to increase the part that travels collectively. However, a commitment to public transport is also dependent on emerging routes. The buses are in the same queues as the cars for so long. In addition, a number point to the need to look at parking policies in conjunction with policies to increase the collective dimension. This we understand is also local desire. Forest mountain packages will solve much of the local problems in the Tfänsberg area. It supports a multiple, including the Workers' Party, and I want to recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e411	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e414	The articles of the Workers' Party indicated that the lot will solve the environmental problems and address the increased traffic congestion in Tønsberg. Everybody will. At the same time, however, the party has a kick to the Progress Party that of course we do not have a realistic proposal. It's for the Labour Party's account what's realistic, and what's not realistic, but when we take in over 40 billion kroner from the drivers, I honestly think they should get a little bit more back than the 10-11 billion. So the question of the Workers' Party is, has the party ever thought about a roof for the number of bomb projects in this country, or is there no roof or any limit to this? One more question: could the Workers' Party, dare they at all, think of having referendums in the area before they set up a bomb project?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e421	Now we in this country get over 2 billion dollars a year in tolls, which finance partly road projects, partly collective projects, various measures for soft road users, etc. It's not just the Labour Party's claim that the 150 million this year and the 100 million last year that the Progress Party got more into it, do not solve a tenth of what they're going to solve with tolls. The second is that it has not been given that the projects we are dealing with here, after a local treatment, would be among the priorities. So the fussing of the Progress Party to get rid of the bombs, that's to exaggerate an alternative that can't in any way seem to be able to get multiples in this house. You will be amazed to see when this goes through today, whether or not the Progress Party will go to the option of stopping the project, as neither will the Progress Party get multiples for it. They try to get a possible twist all the time, but they don't get multiples for anything. So it doesn't help the people in Tønsberg that the Progress Party makes a suggestion here in the hall and is downgraded. It's not going to be real, it's going to be symbol. We haven't seen an absolute thank-you, we've been evaluating it all along. But we actually think that when people locally address their own problems and come up with a way to finance projects that they think they can live with – and they have had a proper political treatment locally – it's quite natural that we support this plurality. And we have certainly not seen any roof. So when it's about public speaking, we have choices in this country. The most important thing is that the information, which parts of mine, comes up with choices. We can't have popularism as an additional democracy in all possible cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e432	The fact that the Workers' Party and SV consider this matter differently is not surprising. On the other hand, it is part of the position that I perceive as more surprising and more disappointing, which I would like to be allowed to ask about, and which I hope I can get a positive clarification on. The road to be built falls under the somewhat unfortunate exception of the new Law on Planning and Building, which allows it to be exempted from impact assessment. It is such that the trasé choice of this ring road determines whether it will conflict with a wetland area protected by the International Ramsar Convention, which can be compared to the UNESCO World Heritage List. Similarly, the Ramsar list contains the main wetlands and habitats for birds in the world. We asked the Council of State a question and got a good and wise answer, where the Council of State stressed that further plan work had to look for solutions that would leave the wetlands around Tønsberg untouched. It is therefore disappointing to me in this context that the Workers' Party could not agree with SV to take that responsibility. There may be a lot of people who think it sounds a little bit small, but it's not. It's about how we manage our international environmental responsibility. Environmental damage is not adopted in a ‘big sludge’. Biodiversity is bit by bit. This is a decision that can take a little bit of biodiversity in the Tønsberg area. I hope that the Workers' Party will be involved in guiding this way so that it is not affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e441	Now all the authorities involved have said that it is not necessary to re-examine the ring road, even after the new legislation, because he has so far been distributed enough on all the bows and edges. We are content with the work that we have done, and it is good that the order for it to be built is laid to rest. I have great respect for SV and not least for Sørensen's environmental exposure. We in the Working Party are also concerned with the environment, but we are happy to follow the rules and restrictions that are adopted and will not extend them. I think in many ways that SV asks for this option, we should stretch them, that one has to go a little beyond the limits. The Labour Party is satisfied with the Council's response. It is still confident that the assessment of this Ramsar area will be part of the distribution programme established by the county as a responsible authority after the draft has been submitted to the Ministry of the Environment. We think they have good competence, and that this is done in a sufficiently good way. But there's a lot of things, and we've had several of them to deal with here in the hall, that's what the representative Sørensen also thinks, with boundary surfaces to that type of area. And then we'll separate enough layers, because we think it's good enough if we stay within the bounds, while SV will go a little bit further. So I must unfortunately disappoint the representative. We cannot go beyond what we have done in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e454	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e457	Right-wing supports the Government's proposals regarding the Tønsberg package. The Tønsberg package is a cooperation project between the municipalities of Tønsberg, Nøtterøy and Tjøme. The project includes new main roads, measures for public transport, pedestrian and cycle routes and environmental and safety measures. The Tønsberg package is divided into two phases. In the first phase, new Rv 311 Ringweg east-west Kjelle–Kilen, walking and cycling route Rv 308 Kjøpmannskjær–The end of the world and immediate action to improve the accessibility of the Central Hospital in Westfold. Other projects and actions shall be clarified through an impact assessment at the end of 2004. This will form the basis for the priority to be given to phase 2 and which the Storting will receive. The Tønsberg package has a cost framework of $2.6 billion in 2002. The Vestfold County Municipality and the three municipalities concerned have joined this scheme. The Tønsberg area has major traffic problems. In the area it lives approx. 40000 people, and the trade area of Tønsberg accounts for approx. Eighty thousand people. It is therefore important for us to improve the accessibility and ensure that more of the traffic goes beyond the centre. I would also like to point to Kanalbrua, with an annual traffic of 40 000 cars. This exceeds the capacity of the bridge and the neighbouring road network. While improving the development of the road network, it will also be important to improve collective action. We expect that there will be increased priority in phase 2. The State contribution to Phase 2 of the Tønsberg package must be assessed on the basis of the framework and Vestfold priorities for the roll-out of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e484	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e487	On 22 January the Committee received letters from the Council of State stating: «In line with St.melding's leadership. No 26 Better public transport will contribute to the financing of the transport system in urban areas, depending on a greater commitment by local authorities to prioritisation of public transport, and will use instruments to mitigate the need for car use and increase the promotion of public transport. [[2001-2002]] This will also be taken into account in relation to Tønsberg.’» I believe that this is wisely written. I also believe that it must be quite obvious to everyone in Tønsberg why the state share of this project is so low, when you see how low public transport is prioritised in phase 1. I would like to ask the Right if they do not agree with me that this is very wise policy towards a city area. And if the Right agrees with me that the Council of State is acting wisely towards Tønsberg, why can't the Right itself be able to write similar things in the committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e499	We support what the Council of State has come up with. Collective traffic is important for the Right as well. What is important to us in relation to this package is that we have a comprehensive solution, that traffic conditions must first be put in place. What we also point to in our committee's comments is that in phase 2, priority should be given to public transport. It's now to be verified, and then we'll see what the municipalities come up with. Right doesn't want to go into detail to the degrees that maybe SV does in relation to this package, because we know that the local involvement is the largest. The State contributes 5 pst. We think it is important for local authorities to assess their needs and priorities. That's why we support the package as it is now, and then we'll see when phase 2 comes. We have given a signal that priority should be given to collective solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e508	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e511	In the national transport plan, transport rates already amount to DKK 1.2 billion in losses. In addition, we had the promises in the Sem statement that would provide a lift in the field of transportation. It's also gone. Based on these small appropriations in recent years, I understand why the other parties want to set up bombs everywhere in Norway. Road investment is too small and road capital is reduced annually in the world's richest country. Then today's authorities steal to one of the world's oldest tricks, that's to tax the passersby even more. At all times, road traffic has had to pay either to highwaymen, cities or states. Today, Norway must be the most keen in this area ever in history. In total, with taxes, revenues and VAT on car charges, we are now up to over 40 billion kroner – a total of 20 Tønsberg packages per. years. The Tønsberg package will not receive many smears of these funds; they will remain in the treasury. Instead, it is once again the roadfarers who have to bleed and pay almost the whole package. The traffic situation in the Tønsberg area is characterised by many decades of government emergency. Traffic volumes have increased year after year, without the necessary extension measures being taken on the road network. This has led to an ever worse situation with regard to road safety, the environment, the transport economy and accessibility. Already in 1962, the Road Directorate submitted plans for a four-field road from Nøtterøy through Tønsberg up to the E18. This should be built by 1980, said the Road Directorate at the time – that's forty years ago. The Progress Party aligns itself with the Ministry’s priorities and will therefore be involved in the development of the main road system in the Tønsberg region, as proposed by the Ministry. However, the Progress Party proposes that national road development should be financed in the usual way by budgetary appropriations, without tolls. And then finally, I want to make our proposal, which is included in the setting on page 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e526	The representative has addressed the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e531	Only since we started 1 October in the fall, we have been dealing with the Ryfylkepaket, the Bergenprogramm, the Svinesund connection and now the Tønsbergpaket. There are quite a number of billions to go, among other things. to the road. If the Labour Party did not give a number to the Government for this, it would therefore be voted against these projects – but there would not have been a multiple for more money! So in many ways, I feel that the Progress Party can flag because the Labour Party takes responsibility and takes care that there is more money to go, which local authorities support, in part, to come up with extraordinary ways. It would be fair to ask the representative from the Progress Party what the Progress Party would have done if the Labour Party voted against and the result was not a bomb, no more money. So now we have an election campaign leading us, and then it's interesting to ask the representative from the Progress Party about what I took up in a reply: will the Progress Party go in to stop this project? Should they stop demanding the money, should they stop expanding, should nothing happen? What kind of help is it to the people of Tønsberg? If the Progress Party has plans to take it up as well, as they have done with other projects, it would be very good for people in the area to know it now before the election, that the Progress Party should actually just sit and see that it gets worse and worse to live in Tønsberg, stay in Tønsberg and drive in Tønsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e538	The Labour Party takes responsibility – that’s like what we usually hear. But who really takes responsibility? Yes, it is the Progress Party. We have clearly said, why should we place so much money in foreign funds and shares? So far, we have lost over DKK 100 billion. What could we not have done in terms of infrastructure here in Norway? We could even have built railways, airports, roads – wherever possible – if we just used the fraction of what we put into shares in foreign companies. This is what the Progress Party has done in its national transport plan. That's where we've put money. We've specified the path for the path, where we're going to put the money, and where we're going to take it from. We've said we're going to take something from the foreign budget, and we're going to increase where we take it domestically. So we've taken responsibility, and we've pointed out where we're going to expand. Right now, we're saying no to a bomb. We think that's right, because when we take 40 billion kroner every year from the taxpayers and the drivers, I honestly think they're going to have a little bit more left than they get today. We haven't said that $40 billion should go back to the road sector, we haven't, but a few billion more could use this country. Then the Workers' Party is concerned that we will stop this project. Not at all! We have put the money into the national transport plan. We also put it into our budget every year. So we have the money – or rather, the whole country, Norway, probably has the money. It's just the will of the other political parties to carry out the expansion that we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e545	There is one thing I wonder a little about when I read the comments of the Advance Party in the setting, and when I now hear the post of the representative Thore A. Nistad. Is it just cliché-like rhetoric, or is there a lack of local knowledge that makes the Progress Party write and say that the traffic situation in the Tønsberg area is marked by the absence of many decades from state authorities? It's pretty far from the whole truth in Tønsberg. There are, however, several shelf metres of plans for the construction and construction of roads in the Tønsberg district. But a lot of the problem has been that you have never been able to agree locally on what to build and where to build, and also who would pay the plant. For almost 40 years, we've been discussing it. But no new road system has been built. It was also easy to agree on who should pay the fee. But to take responsibility for deciding what and where to build was not able to do so before the autumn of 2000. The matter was speeded up. And today the matter is being dealt with in Stortinget. My question to the Progress Party is: When we ignore the disagreement on how this is to be financed, I want to know whether the Progress Party is now fully behind the plans for a new main road system in the Tønsberg area, as the Transport Committee is now in favour, and as a political majority of the local authorities in Tønsberg, Nøtterøy, Tjøme and the County Council in Vestfold have done. That's what the Progress Party writes in the configuration. I want to know if the Progress Party really believes this, or whether we will still hear another story locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e552	Of course, the Progress Party will expand. We've been saying that every year. Then I just want to repeat something I said – which the representative obviously did not hear, or perhaps would not hear – in my post. I said that already in 1962 – 1962! – provided the Road Directorate with plans for the four-field road from Nøtterøy through Tønsberg and up to E18. This should be built by 1980, said the Road Directorate at the time – and that was 40 years ago! So you could have come a long way in Tønsberg already if you had done something out of the plans that the Road Directorate had, but probably stranded it on the politicians of the day, who either wouldn't grant the money, or who put chains in the wheels for those who had planned it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e557	I am pleased that the Progress Party together with SV will be involved in rejecting the Tønsberg package, because I believe it is an old-fashioned road project that it is not right that we should go in and finance. I record that I often agree with the Progress Party in transport matters. We have rejected up to several road projects together. But when I was going to make a small count, I found out that the Progress Party has voted against more road projects than SV has done in this period. Today you will vote against the Tønsberg package, you have voted against the Bergen programme – we actually voted in favour of that. You voted against the Ryfylke package. Pinadø – I voted for it too, me. Then you voted against E6 in Eastfold and E39 Øysand-Thamshamn. The last one I also voted for, given. You have voted against more roads than we have had the stomach to do here in Stortinget. I have to say, I think it's a bit tense of the Progress Party, whose rhetoric is going to be the very most paved party in this country, to make itself so totally dependent on the Workers' Party. You know they're responsible, they don't fail, right? They're in favour, they're in favour. You have depended on the Workers' Party today to get built roads in Tønsberg, you depended on the Workers' Party to get built road in Bergen, in Ryfylke, E6 in Østfold, etc. But for me, it's nice that someone wants to join in and say no. I'm not particularly happy with all these bombs, me either, and I'm not happy in all the ways. But that we're going to end up and vote so much together, must be a paradox for the Progress Party. For me, the result is desired, but the Progress Party must achieve exactly the opposite of what they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e567	The President considers that the statement should be addressed to the President and not be a dialogue between the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e570	I never stop wondering about SV. Either they can't read or they can't hear. Well, they want to interpret it their way. We would never reject the Tønsberg package! We've never rejected the Ryfylke package. We've never rejected a single road package, we. We have proposed – and voted in favour – all the road packages that have been presented here, plus many, many more. That's the way we're going to finance this, which is the difference. I am fully aware that SV understands this, but they would rather say something else. They're just going to say that, I think the voters are able to see through what SV says, anyway. So it's the way of financing that's the difference. There's nothing SV wants. They don't want a way at all, so where people are going to drive to get there is a mystery to me. But it's got to be SV's problem. We have said quite clearly – in the national transport plan, in our budgets, in all the contributions we have here, and in all our proposals – that we will finance it through the state budget, because we have enough money. That's what's the difference between us and SV. We are fully in favour of the Tønsberg package – 100 pst. But it has to be paid from here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e581	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e584	I got a little bored, I, when I got the Tønsberg package, because I think we've seen a development towards more exciting projects, not least from the big cities, from places that at least will be among the big cities – and I understand that Tønsberg will. The Tønsberg package is an old-fashioned road package. You build a road – and then you think about spending a little collectively in the future. Before Christmas we had a more exciting problem. Then we'll deal with the Bergen program. There were problems and many dilemmas there too, but what the politicians did locally in Bergen – and I think it stands for all the world’s respect – was to crush some goals for what one would achieve with the Bergen programme. Point 1 would dampen traffic growth. Furthermore, urban development would provide less transport needs. A greater proportion of traffic growth was to be shifted to public transport, the environmental impact of traffic was to be reduced, the centre was to be protected from increased traffic growth, a coherent walking and cycling network was to be established – and fewer road accidents would occur. All of these were goals that showed that they were thinking about a whole society, that they were thinking about more things than just building a project that was important, and that they were thinking the collective share as an important part of the total. In the Tønsberg package, no such objectives have been set. That's why it's old-fashioned. It is an old-fashioned way of thinking, which does not solve the challenges facing Tønsberg – and many other cities. It illustrates the situation quite well that only 100 million. kr of a total framework of SEK 2.6 billion will go to public transport measures. The main measure of the Tønsberg package is the construction of a ring road around the centre of Tønsberg, between Kile and Kjelle. This will be a temporary improvement in the conditions at the centre of Tønsberg, there shall be no protruding under the chair. But it doesn't meet the main challenges of the Tønsberg Center. 70 pst. the traffic in the area has its centre of gravity. Better road accessibility towards the centre means that the expected traffic growth, against which there is no measure in the Tønsberg package, will eat up this gain quite quickly – and then you are at the starting point. This illustrates the lack of a holistic approach that I believe we saw the germ – and the beginning of – in the Bergen programme, but that has not been followed up in the Tønsberg package. The ring road shall not be subject to impact assessment. I believe that this is an unwise decision. It ends up in the category of what I call a little unfortunate projects, which can go under an exception to the new Planning and Building Act because it was part of a municipal plan before the new Planning and Building Act was adopted. In this category, some projects have been ported, and this has often led to a high level of conflict. It is not true that this project has been investigated in the past, up and down, back and up – it has been within previous plans. To illustrate how little it is figured out: the choice of trasé is not finally understood. And when the trasé choice is not finally made, it is also difficult to say something about what the new planning and building law would take into account: consequences of interference with nature and the environment. It is therefore unfortunate that this should not be determined. The new loophole will then form the basis for the further impact assessment. A narrow path and a significant improvement in car performance is a very difficult one, which may decide which collective measures might come out as profitable in the new impact assessment. The fact that we do not include this loophole in the overall impact study makes it more difficult for us to see the overall, good transport solutions, as we tried to do in connection with the Bergen programme. Having said that, I would like to say that I am, after all, happy that the Council of State is in favour of such a small proportion of the funding of this old-fashioned road package for Tønsberg. 5 pst. I think it's a good thing to say about how you politically assess how good this really is. It's easy to make a comparison with the Bergen program here, which had over 40 pst. State share, but also a significantly higher collective share. I am pleased that the Council of State so clearly writes that in phase 2 it will be important to look at the priority of public transport. I am pleased that a very broad majority of the committee has also said so. A majority, from Right to Left, writes that ‘this majority therefore believes that collective action must be given increased priority in phase 2’. I'm glad you've at least done it. I am also pleased that the Council of State assumes that the wetlands around Tønsberg will not be destroyed by the trasé selection on the new ring road, which is not consistently determined. Although I would have liked it to have been included in a comprehensive impact assessment, it is certainly good that the Council of State puts this pressure on the process that is now going to take place locally. We have an important lead for the Ramsar areas, namely that they should have a border zone. It is clear from the Ministry of the Environment when they are set up that they should have it. There is no good solution either for the Ramsar areas or for others who are concerned with preserving the diversity of nature, that we should use the boundaries of the protection area itself as a limit to where we can pave the way. But I interpreted the council there that these are things she has insight into and is concerned about taking care of. We will reject the Tønsberg package as it is now available. This does not mean that we will reject any new measures on the road side. Tønsberg needs action. You have e.g. the need for a new channel crossing. But it's important that you think completely, and you haven't done that in connection with the Tønsberg package. Road construction, which generates new traffic, is being used without taking any measures to reduce traffic growth or increase collective proportions. Finally, I would like to say that Tønsberg has a past. Tønsberg was one of the environmental cities in what we called the TP10 program. Tønsberg was to become the bicycle town and profile itself like the bicycle town. It's not so bad to ride in Tønsberg, for those who have tried it. Tønsberg really had the opportunity, I just have to say, to become both a bicycle city, a collective city and an environmental city. I think it is a pity that Tønsberg scraped this away with this Tønsberg package and instead chose to become a car village. A greater commitment to public transport is the only thing that can bring lasting improvements to conditions in the Tønsberg centre. That is why, on behalf of SV, I would like to say that, at the vote today, we are going to vote against the proposal to approve the Tønsberg package.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e616	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e619	The representative Sørensen has spoken in several different lines earlier today about what she thinks has been wise opinions, and whether what she thinks has been paradoxical. I expect that the representative Sørensen has presented to us now is within the group of wise opinions. For my part, I have to say that the paradoxes were what I heard most about. Let me limit my paradoxes to some of what was said. Here SV moves into the principle thinking that ends with the Tønsberg package, as they imagine it as an offer to the population of these three municipalities primarily, will be an airlock, and that's a bad offer. It is also a paradox when the problems are as serious in the area as they are and which has led to the final responsibility of the political authorities after many years. It is also a paradox when SV rejects the Tønsberg package on a principle basis, with the consequence that collective action is absolutely nothing of it. One thing is to be dissatisfied with what exists, but what SV does with its proposal, is that there will be zero bets on public transport. It must be a paradox. It can't be anything special to ride around Tønsberg in the summer and tell us what you stand for to solve the problems. The last thing I have to say is, maybe it was humorous, but I think I heard that the representative Sørensen thinks that 5 pst. State contributions are too high for such a poor project. It was also a bit of a message to the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e630	I have to be honest enough to admit that I am not always able to take Frönn's points immediately. To the end, I want to say that in terms of these 5 percent, SV has written in an annotation form, and I repeated that here, that we are satisfied with it, given that there are some things going to happen, that you put pressure on Tønsberg to get more public transport in the next phase. I think that's good. I do not think there are any more paradoxes between the Workers' Party and SV in this case than that we disagree with the assessment whether this is good or bad for Tønsberg. SV in Tønsberg believes this is bad for the Tønsberg area. The Workers' Party in Tønsberg believes that this is good for the Tønsberg area. I don't think the paradox is worse than that. We consider it differently and respect that the Workers' Party has a different attitude. We think this is an old-fashioned road package. It's completely missing. If it's that way to get 100 million. kr to public transport, I have to go in to grant NOK 2.5 billion to a road that will exacerbate the situation of public transport, I think the choice will be quite simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e639	It is quite interesting to hear SV's type of history writing and SV's concern and analysis of traffic development in Tønsberg when the party's proposal for a solution is only even more plans, new postponements, narrower roads and more public transport. Locally it is called in Tønsberg that SV is really too bomb, but towards a new road. They say they want to use the tolls to subsidize the cyclists and buses and not build new roads. On the other hand, in the opinion of the Committee on Transport, SV writes in its comments that they do not ‘reject the need for action on the road’. ‘Tønsberg needs to get cars out of the centre, and there is a need for new channel crossing’, says SV. My questions will then be: How does SV think that you should lead the huge and growing heavy traffic that is currently going in the middle of the whole day, another way without building the bypass that is now proposed in the first part of the project? What's wrong with building a double-run tunnel when we know about what huge quantities of so-called dangerous goods must be transported today through popular city streets? It's just words when you, as SV is trying on here, just ask for another rematch for a rag that we've already discussed for more than 25 years, because you don't get as many bus files in the first stage of construction as SV could imagine. Isn't it time to start building the new road system that will give way to a much better collective offer, and not just keep talking about and just make new shelf meters with plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e646	There has never been any doubt in my mind that the enthusiasm for building the road in the Right, not least in the Westfold Right, has been great. That being said, there are some of us who have a slightly wider commitment than just having to put the spade in the ground and get the built-up road now. There are some of us who think that we should see traffic in a slightly wider perspective, that we should include both urban planning and even thinking a little bit collectively, also how many bus files we are allowed to build. If it is that the representative thought there was a difference between what SV meant locally, and what SV meant centrally, I can rest assured that we are fully in line, locally and centrally, on this issue. We believe that we have been willing, and we have been brave locally in relation to this, because there has been no hurrah me hello, we are delighted to have the bombing at the centre of Tønsberg. But SV locally has been brave enough to say that we could have gone for a bombing if there was a larger collective share. So do we. But let me also say that there are needs on the road too. But when you come up with a plan where you can't see these things in context, it becomes a problem. I agree with the representative in relation to heavy transport. It's a problem with the Esso Slagentangen. We should have got a different solution than the one we have now. But the Tønsberg package is not a complete plan. It does not qualify for the bombardment it is set up for, nor does it provide long-term, good environmental solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e653	In any case, the timber mountain package is called a spice layer. Not least there are representatives in this room who called it a fissure layer. That's the kind of spice layer you can compare to if you agree to split at dinner, and you have to pay for everything yourself, except for the coffee, not a very good spice layer, but I think it's Tønsberg's people who are going to bucket here. There have been many debates in Tønsberg on the matter, and the only thing that has actually been agreed on is that the state's share should have been considerably higher. At least the community, both Tønsberg and the surrounding municipalities, has agreed on this. Here I see it as if SV central and SV locally are on a collision course. The question is then: Should we listen to Tønsberg SV about a wish for a higher share from the state, or should we listen to what SV says here today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e660	I fully share the representative's description of this split layer, but it is such that Tønsberg SV and SV at Stortinget are fully in line here. Tønsberg SV does not want high government shares for a project they are against! They didn't want this ring road. However, Tønsberg SV wants a larger state contribution to a Tønsberg package that looks different, where there has been a much larger investment in public transport. It is clear that Tønsberg SV wants it. I also wish we could get more money for public transport in Tønsberg. There might be someone in this room who doesn't want to, but I think most of us would have wanted us to have gotten to that. But what we've said is that it's good that the Council of State puts pressure on Tønsberg further, because I think it's important that Tønsberg's local politicians think through, that if they had come up with a greater collective share, they might have stood stronger and had better arguments when they fought for a greater state share. It is important to work further towards phase 2 that we think in those paths to get more government money for public transport in Tønsberg. I promise we will do that every day we have occasion to do it. They're going to do that in Tønsberg, and we're going to do that here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e666	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e669	It is gratifying that today the Stortinge will adopt a plan for financing important and absolutely necessary projects and actions in the Tønsberg area, a long-term long-term solution. Although the committee is not unanimous, it is a large majority who have supported the Government and local government in Nøtterøy, Tjøme and Tønsberg as well as the Vestfold County Municipality, all of which have agreed to the toll financing of the Tønsberg package. I would like to begin by commending the local political authorities, who, by being willing to finance tolls, show that they are taking responsibility for solving the major traffic challenges that exist in this neighbourhood, after many years of investigation and expectation. There is no secret that the resistance to toll financing is high in the area. I am not surprised, therefore, that both the anti-bombing action committee and the Progress Party are very pleased about their positions. But what if the alternative is that the major traffic problems in the Tønsberg area remain unresolved for a long time to come? I think, after all, that the resistance to bombing means less to people than the desire for better traffic solutions. In my opinion, the Progress Party, which is a principal opponent of toll financing, throws its eyes on people by giving the impression that it is realistic to get to the Tønsberg package in the near future without the use of toll financing. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to take account of the local decisions taken on the occasion of the case. We are aware that the municipalities and county council would have wanted a greater state share than 5 pst. We understand that. At the same time, however, we note that the local authorities have nevertheless sought the same conclusion that a majority in the Committee has agreed to. The Christian People's Party's aim is for more people to choose collective forms of transport. We are therefore pleased that a large majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, believes that collective action must be given greater priority in phase 2 of the Tønsberg package. Good and well-functioning collective services can help to mitigate the expected growth of traffic and the challenges such growth will bring about in the coming period. Strengthening public transport is one of the main areas of activity of the Cooperative Government. I believe that the Socialist Left Party is bombing when they claim that the Tønsberg package does not address the main transport and environmental problems in the Tønsberg area. Public transport shall be provided and the majority of the Committee shall be involved in order to consider the possibility of establishing a parking facility on the outskirts of urban centres for further carriage by bus. The Committee also points out that the parking policy at the centre has to be assessed. This shows a willingness to bet on collective solutions in front of the car. At the same time, I would like to make a point when it is claimed that predictions for increased traffic growth are often swallowed raw, without reflecting on whether it is possible to put in place measures to slow down or stop traffic growth. There is, of course, a broad political consensus that car traffic needs to be reduced and that more people need to travel collectively. Then it is a little strange that the same politicians often argue as if a sharp increase in car use is inevitable. The car is still going to be an important means of transport, and we need to conduct a responsible policy that also takes the drivers seriously. The Christian People's Party has a vision that no one will be killed or seriously injured in traffic. This zero vision is an ambitious goal, but when we see what suffering traffic accidents create for those who are directly affected, and not least the relatives, it is necessary to set clear and high targets. The Christian People's Party will bet widely to achieve this goal. We want more controls and more police on the roads. We want measures that affect the attitudes and behaviour of road users, and we want to promote the use of the safest means of delivery. At the same time, physical measures such as improving road safety must be of high priority. The latter is an important reason why the Christian People’s Party welcomes the Tønsberg package. The Ministry of Transport writes in its proposal that expected traffic growth from a 10- to 15-year perspective would lead to an increase in accident risk in the absence of significant improvements in transport systems. These are the signals we have to take seriously. Perhaps the biggest challenge in transport policy is to ensure that people can move safely in traffic. Nor can we run from that responsibility in the Tønsberg area. I would like to congratulate the people of Tønsberg and Tjøme and Nøtterøy on the fact that the major traffic problems facing the area are now being addressed by a majority on the Stortinget. All road users, both soft and hard, will have much left for what is paid in tolls. Improving traffic management, improving road safety and improving the environment are some of the key features of the Tønsberg package. The municipalities of Tønsberg, Tjøme and Nøtterøy will now have a more comprehensive transport system, and transit traffic will be reduced in the Tønsberg centre and in other local centres. The action package will lift the entire Tønsberg area. It will be a better place to live and work and become more attractive as a business. I hope the toll won't ruin the joy of getting all this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e692	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e695	I heard the representative Holten's satisfaction that local authorities wanted to finance tolls, and that the local authorities took the overall responsibility for the traffic management in Tønsberg. Does this mean that the Christian People’s Party believes that the State has been running away from its responsibility as a total levy of car-related taxes in the responsibility they should normally have had for road development? Does the Christian People's Party also believe that in the long run it is the local authorities that should guide road development in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e702	I can quickly agree with the representative, Vidar Andersen, that it is the responsibility of the local authorities to develop a practical and good solution for their local environment, including in terms of road development. It must be clear that the Stortinget takes the kind of decisions that go on tolls and road development in the neighbourhoods, after close cooperation and in agreement with the decisions taken locally, as well as in this case. So there is a clear political majority in these three municipalities and in the county council on the basis that the majority now ceases to realize a desire to achieve a well-functioning practical solution for the Tønsberg area. In this way I understand that the representative also touched on the question of who is going to pay. So we've gone into the solution models that are available from local teams in this project, and we think that's the right way to work here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e711	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e714	The centre party will support the content of the Tønsberg package proposition. In much of our country, the road system of missing maintenance and upgrade. In particular, this national road network applies, but also parts of the main road network. It is therefore necessary to upgrade the road network throughout the country. There are also many new projects waiting for means of realization, cf. National transport plan. The center party thinks road construction is a public task, and the main task is to raise the level of public investment in transport. The annual promises of the state budget for the development of the transport network are far from adequate in relation to the need. As a result, the Centre Party has proposed an increased framework for road construction by managing the most recent budgets. We haven't got multiples for that. As long as there is no willingness to prioritise more budget resources for road construction, alternative solutions, such as tolls, will also be needed in the future to solve the many challenges facing the sector. In this respect, the Central Party has listened carefully to the decisions taken by the local authorities and the initiatives they have taken. The majority in the three municipalities concerned and the county have been behind the project. Just like this center party, we want to find solutions that remove bottlenecks and traffic from the center areas at the same time as we make urban areas more accessible. There are solutions that give both car traffic and soft road users a better supply. The Central Party supports the Ministry's recommendation that, in the context of the impact assessment, one should consider how public transport and other measures are an alternative or a complement to the main road development. Public transport must be a priority in phase 2 of the project. A better collective offer is a commitment to be closed in providing Tønsberg and the other urban centres with a better environment and a better supply, more suited to the soft road users. That as much as 85 pst. of those active in the area never use buses to and from work, means that there is a significant potential for the provision to be facilitated. The bombing itself will be an incentive for individuals to travel collectively, an economic incentive for individuals. But parking spaces outside the city center and good bus connections to the center are among other things. measures that need to be established to make it a real offer. The toll project as agreed today, involves little State involvement. Although the Centre Party supports the content of the Proposition, we would stress that the State funding element of Phase 2 of the Tønsbergpaket needs to be further assessed on the basis of economic framework and Vestfold’s priorities in the rolling of the National Transport Plan. Not all cheers on the decision taken by the majority in this case. The Toll Action Committee has collected many signatures and has had a great deal of involvement in the matter. However, when the Central Party chooses to support the Ministry's recommendation, it is based on the positive initiatives and decisions taken in the local governing body, on the assumption that the project will provide the inhabitants of the Tønsberg area with a safer and better provision of transport and on the recognition that, with the existing framework of the Government, we are not able to solve the major challenges facing road construction both in Westfold and in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e733	There is a great need to upgrade the transport system in the Tønsberg area. There are 47 000 inhabitants in this common housing and labour market comprising the municipalities of Tønsberg, Nøtterøy and Tjøme and parts of Stokke, Andebu, Re and Horten. In Tønsberg, there are about 80,000 people living in the commercial area. Almost all transit traffic has to pass through the centre of Tønsberg today, including tankers from the refinery on the battlebar. Transit represents about one third of traffic in Tønsberg. There are many intersections on the main road network, which is the main cause of sometimes poor traffic management in the area. This happens approximately. 50 accidents recorded each year in the centre area, most with cross-sectional cars or pedestrians crossing the road. A quarter of all traffic accidents in Vestfold occur in the Tønsberg area. This is part of the background of the Tønsberg package, which is a cooperation project between the municipalities of Tønsberg, Nøtterøy and Tjøme. The municipalities wish to develop a comprehensive transport system in the Tønsberg area and have all adopted the package scheme, including the financing scheme with a bombing around the centre of Tønsberg. It has been crucial for my positive advice in this matter that the projects and measures in the Tønsberg package will help to improve accessibility and road safety. Partly bypassing transit traffic improves road safety and will provide much better conditions for vulnerable road users, residents and urban activities. The Tønsberg package is divided into two phases. In the first phase, new Rv 311 Ringveg east-west Kjelle–Kilen, walking and cycling road along Rv 308 Kjøpmannskjær–The end of the world and immediate action to improve the accessibility of the Central Hospital in Westfold. The Ringveg east-west project Kjelle-Kilen involves a new bypass north and east of the centre. Other projects and actions shall be clarified through an impact assessment at the end of 2004. It will provide a basis for prioritisation of Phase 2 projects, including measures for public transport. Once the impact assessment has been carried out and plans are in place for the projects and measures with a safe estimate of costs, the Stortinget will be presented with proposals on what should be prioritised within a sub-frame of 1310 million. kr. The high toll ratio demonstrates strong local willingness to implement the package. The 2002-2011 action programme envisages 90 million. SEK to the Tønsberg package of county-distributed frame for Vestfold. The financial plan provides for the same level in 2012-2015. The local objective is to implement all projects and actions by 2011. This means that the toll company advances part of the State resources, against reimbursement in 2012-2015. I assume that the scope of projects and actions as well as the rate of expansion is adapted to the overall framework of NOK 2.6 billion. In the case of exceedances of costs on individual projects and actions, the content of the package must be re-evaluated as appropriate. With regard to the place of public transport in phase 2 of the Tønsberg package, the Department of Proposition strongly recommends that the impact assessment examines the extent to which public transport and other measures are an alternative or complement to the main road development. I am pleased that the Committee also underlines this point and assumes that it is working actively with, among other things. park and ride facilities and local parking policies. I would also like to remind you that, in line with the leadership of last year's public transport survey, State contributions to the financing of the transport system in urban areas will depend for the future on the increased commitment of local authorities to prioritize public transport and use instruments that can mitigate the need for car use and increase the promotion of public transport. These principles will also be applied to Tønsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e752	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e755	It is now the case that when proposals from the Government are submitted to projects financed in whole or in part by tolls in this Chamber, it has been quite common for the Labour Party to support them. When these proposals come from a local perspective and have broad support, it would only be lacking that they did not receive support in this room as well. There are local people who know the situation best. After all, they also become realistic when it comes to what is possible to get from government money, and then they take hold. It should only be lacking that we do not try to support them when they also do so within what is planned in the NTP in the short and longer term. This is the case in Tønsberg. But then it's like in this case that in others we give some leads back to, among other things. Tønsberg. That's how we get something, but at the same time, we're affecting what we get. We don't go down by flag to top, because we have some other point of view or principle. In this context, the Council of State and the majority point to the need to invest more collectively. Then I expect the Council of State to find out locally how they want it, but I don't ignore the fact that the Council of State has any money to give on the way to thinking about it. I have a question for you: is it possible to invest something special more collectively with the roads we have in Tønsberg? Isn't there two sides of the same case, and isn't there an obligation to get collective solutions in Tønsberg that you get done on the road? Is there any twists that make it possible for buses to jump past cars? Are they not in the same queues? Then I'm a little uncertain about what the Council of State thinks when, first, it says in terms of the consequences of the Ring Road, that this cannot be tried by the Ministry of Transport, and she says later in the same answer that they find no reason to try it out. Cannot review by state council, or won't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e766	I am very pleased that the Workers' Party supports the Government's proposals in this matter. This case would not have been promoted if the government had not thought this was a good case. As it's been stressed here several times, it's a lot about the future of Tønsberg and the region around it. It's about what kind of everyday life people are going to experience. It is about children being able to feel reasonably safe when walking on the roads and not being threatened by the traffic passing through the city. These, together with the environment, are important aspects. Then I am humble in relation to the fact that as long as we are betting on road solutions, it will facilitate car traffic. I am also concerned that when we have a bombing, it will in itself be dampening on car traffic. It's important to me that there's a strong local commitment to finding solutions here, and I'm also sure there's a strong local commitment to finding good solutions for public transport. Now I would have liked to have been able to tell Tønsberg what kind of concrete collective solutions they should have. However, I choose to believe that the local population is best placed to find the most suitable solutions locally. That's why I'm waiting with excitement for the recordings that are going to match Phase 2 of the Tønsberg package. It may also be that without doing anything on the road side, the solutions for public transport will not be found. It seems reasonably obvious. As regards the impact assessment, there has been a formal process in relation to which race to go here. It has not proved necessary to carry out a new impact assessment based on the process that has been reviewed in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e778	I am pleased that the Council of State underlines the need for public transport to be given priority in phase 2. I am disappointed with the assessment that was made in relation to the impact assessment of the Ringwegen. An impact assessment will be carried out on the basis of which the collective effort will be undertaken, on the location of this loophole, and it will be an important prerequisite. At the same time, the trasé choice is not decided for this ring road. I am pleased that the Council of State says that it must do so that the wetlands around Tønsberg remain untouched. I am a little more uncertain about how the Council of State has intended to act to ensure that these wetlands do not lose protection. I would like to ask concretely: how can the Council of State help to ensure that this route does not reduce the value of wetlands around Tønsberg?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e785	I have noticed in this debate that the representative Sørensen is of the opinion that there have been wise contributions from the ministry. I take note of that, of course, with great joy. I want to commend that exposure to the environment in relation to the wetlands as well. This is a challenge we are still facing. This is not the only example we have of such a conflict. I am concerned that just when we have such challenges, we shall sit down and carefully consider what is going on to avoid going further on the conflict. I assume that such assessments will be central, and that further work will be undertaken to take care of the wetlands that are there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e792	Timber pack is one of many toll items. The co-operation agency has tax relief as one of its main issues. At the same time, one is adding up to an increasing number of indirect taxes, e.g.: in the form of tolls. It is a form of tax that is equal, regardless of its financial capacity, and is such an unsolvable form of taxation as opposed to the progressive tax system in which one pays according to its ability. The decision in the national transport plan has created expectations. With the frames proposed by the Government, we've already reached our targets. It has been a positive thing today about local involvement, but with the current framework of transport, a local government force is forcing more and more toll projects to solve acute challenges in the field of transport. When it becomes positive about local engagement, of course, I agree with it. But after bidding most of my life in a municipality surrounded by tolls on all sides, I have also seen the limitations this imposes on the development of a common construction and work area in the region. Then we talk about toll bets from 80 to 150 kroner, as seen on the right hand side of what we are discussing today, but still. So my question to the Minister of Transport is: does it want a development in which local people have to take an increasing share of the tax when developing a safe place, or will the Government intend to make sure that the road construction frameworks are increased at least in line with the decision in the national transport plan? Will the State Council assess the size of the State involvement in Phase 2 of the Tønsberg package after Vestfold has carried out a rolling of the national transport plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e803	It is quite right that the user contribution is very large in the Tønsberg package. We have, however, chosen to promote this package, because it has a huge gain associated with it. That means here it's a local commitment, you're willing to pay. One big difference between what goes on general taxation, and this is that those who benefit from it, are also the ones who are charged with this cost. Of course, any government council would want more money for its territory, but we have to think about the whole of every year's budget. That's the reality. I know, like many in this Chamber, that there is a huge gap between the needs for investment in the transport sector and what we get through every year's budget. Then I think it is commendable when it comes to initiatives like what we are witnessing here from Tønsberg and Tønsberg, and I believe that this initiative we are obliged to follow up and support. With regard to the appropriations for the transport sector, it is a challenge for the Government, and it is also a challenge for the Storting, when we are to allocate the funds collectively between the sectors. There is no doubt that the challenges lie ahead in many sectors, so the challenge for us politicians is to prioritise. Then such a scheme as they propose in the Tønsberg package is a loving contribution to moving forward and getting something done in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e812	I would like to repeat a question asked by the representative of Ausdal Starrfeld, to which the Council of State might not have been more clear than what was the starting point for the question of ambiguity. That is the answer the Council of State gave to the question asked by the Committee as question 1 on the impact assessment of Ringvejen Kile-Kjelle, whether this was a legally adopted decision, or whether the Council of State still has the possibility to look at it. I want to quote what the Council of State answers, so that you can clarify it exactly: ‘According to the Planning and Building Act, the Ministry of Transport is not able to review the assessments made by the Municipality of Tønsberg as the responsible authority. It has therefore been established that the regulatory decisions of the Ringweg must be regarded as legally adopted decisions and that the Ringweg can therefore be implemented under the Planning and Building Act without further impact assessment.’;» Later in the same answer, the Council of State writes: ‘I do not consider it appropriate to review the assessments made locally. extension of Ringvejen Kile-Kjelle. Once the impact assessment has been completed, the Ministry will return to the question of the implementation and prioritisation of the projects investigated.’» The question is, can the Council of State do it, or will the Council of State not? What's the point of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e827	It is true that Ringvejen Kilen-Kjelle, as stated in the municipality plan for Tønsberg, is not subject to an investigation with a background to the transitional provisions of the impact assessment regulations, and that is what I have been dealing with. Here, the State Road Service has carried out an assessment of whether the issue of impact assessment obligations was in accordance with the Code on Impact Assessment. It was submitted to the municipality of Tønsberg which is the responsible planning authority, which is the planning authority for Ringwegen. In the summer of 2001, the municipality submitted the case to the county and county council, as required by the regulation. Both authorities assessed that the Ring Road was not subject to an impact assessment. We're in a transition phase, as we're now in several cases, where we're standing up to this question. This concerns the way we're talking about now. As far as phase two is concerned, there is another phase, and there we want an impact assessment according to the law as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e834	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e837	This matter is primarily about feasibility. Secondly, it is about security and preparedness, and finally it is about security of life and health. In Tønsberg traffic stands in and out of the city quietly until almost all edges both morning and evening. In Tønsberg, Vestfold’s largest and most important hospital is getting more and more tasks from the small hospitals, and through Tønsberg, Esso Slagen runs its petrol tank transports. 50 pst. the active population of both Tjømes and Nøtterøy is in line at Kanalbrua in Tønsberg twice a day to get to and from work. Every day there are 40,000 cars running over this bridge. It seems that the traffic growth in the area is approx. 3 pst. And not 1 1/2 pst, as you thought. Tjøme, Nøtterøy and Tjönsberg are attractive resorts, and from early spring to late autumn there are very many visitors on weekends, as well as those who drive daily to and from work. Therefore, traffic is high every day. Collective traffic is good, and we're going to build it out more, but today it's like all the files that exist are full of cars, and then buses come out no more than others. Collective fields should therefore be developed in order to be able to use more buses in the future. When all exits and Kanalbrua are full of cars in both directions, it is not easy to be the usual driver or the resident of the city. Worse still, it's for those who aim to save lives, ambulance drivers, fire drivers or the police on a call-out. That is why this matter is also about the safety of getting help when it is needed, even if it is in rush time morning and evening. The preparedness and safety of life and health depend on accessibility. The business life in Tønsberg and its surroundings is also dependent on being able to drive and not spend hours in line with their transports. Everyone wants more money from the state for their road projects. Of course, we do that in Vestfold and Tønsberg. In several election campaigns, the parties that are now in the government offices have promised much more money for transport purposes. They have not yet fulfilled their commitments, and there is no new choice until 2005. We'll see ahead and hope and believe the best. The progress party is against roadblocks, they say, and they believe that the state has to pay. They've had two good chances now. Two budgets have helped the Bondevik II administration without any visible impact on the transport sector. On the other hand, their influence on the tax relief of budgets has been formidable. But I don't think that's a good thing for the Progress Party to see. They do not care about the safety and safety of the hospital either. Neither does it seem that they care about safety or safety, they have at least not promised more money for roads in Westfold or elsewhere in the country. They both were and are opposed to the construction of the E18 as well. I wonder many times if the voters in Westfold knew before the big shot last. But this case also shows that the environmental party SV does not think much about the environment in Tønsberg City, where cars have been waiting for a long time and are still in line to spew exhaust gas and other pollutants beyond the city and about the city's inhabitants, workers and hospital patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e856	For more than 25 years, we in the Tønsberg district have discussed the need to build a completely new main road system. At the end of the 1970s, the first part of the new ring road around the centre of Tønsberg was built. Since then, there has been a lot of discussion, to say it a little cautiously, not just about who would pay for the new way. We have largely agreed on this locally – of course the state would. On the other hand, the consensus has not been the same about what kind of road system would be established, not to talk about where the road would be built. There are several shelf metres of plans where roads can be built, where they should be built and where they absolutely should not be built. The ideas, the maps and the plans have been many, as have the reprisals and the rematches. I record that we also here in Stortinget see signs of attempts from SV on another rematch. More than ten years ago, the Tønsberg politicians decided to continue the ring road through Frodeåsen. It was adopted, and that decision has been for security's sake since repeated four times in Tønsberg City Council by a large majority. SV now asks for another rematch. The breakthrough in this discussion came in the years 1999–2000, when this trasé choice was also supported by neighbouring municipalities, the Vegvessen and not least by local business. In the 1999 local election campaign, the road issue was central, not least the question of how to finance a possible road construction. The need for self-financing was evident, and courageous local politicians decided to cut through all the talks and try to get the new road system under way, with a significant degree of self-financing if necessary. Yes, traffic volumes and growth in traffic on today’s road system exceeded all forecasts. The associated environmental problems were so great and the emergence was getting worse. A growing number of local business representatives almost demanded that local politicians stop talking and start building. Thus, the local process started in order to obtain an application for access to self-financing of the project and not least to clarify where the first part of the project was to be built. Good processes, both professional and political, and a good interaction with the local business community have so brought forward the matter Stortinget has on his table today. The 1999 local election campaign had made it clear that this was a matter for most parties to try to find a solution, which could result in the construction of a new road system, and not just continue in new rounds of endless discussions about all the options, and that the only visible building that took place was more and more shelf meters of plans. The political fronts were not quite different from the ones we see here in the Chamber today. I tend locally to sum up the discussion about the Tønsberg package about this: the Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left take responsibility and want a new road system, if necessary with good self-financing. The progress part wants new roads, but no booms, and SV wants the booms, but not new roads. The necessary clarifications have been made, and the City Council of Tønsberg and the Municipal Councils of Nøtterøy and Tjøme have all decided to apply for access to collect tolls for the financing of the Tønsberg package. This has also been joined by the majority in the Westfold county. The regulatory plans for the first part of the project are in place, and construction can start in a short time, while the rest of the project will be clarified through a comprehensive impact assessment that will result in recommendations that Stortinget will in turn get on its table. This applies, inter alia, to: the question of new channel crossing to Nøtterøy, where today’s vulnerable sloping bridge has an annual traffic of nearly 40000 vehicles. It is important for me from Stortinget's pulpit to be told that this project is not something we are fighting through with great joy and to the homeless local cheer. Riksweger is a national responsibility, and the money for this project too should actually have been granted in this room. Now all of us who are sitting here know that then we would quickly get the company of a lot of projects around the country. It means local priority, and the resources, no matter how much we were able to allocate to new roads, would still be too scarce. It means, in short, that we need to solve the problem, not just sit in line and with howl and screams discuss all the possible options sometimes and wait for it to be our turn, you need to establish a local ability and willingness to self-finance. Otherwise it will be short and well no new way. For the Tønsberg area, it would probably have meant that nothing would have happened to the road system in the next 10 to 15 years, compared to the priorities that are now on the table. In my opinion, in a few years, the regional centre of Tønsberg would choke in a total traffic chaos. The ratios are enough to live with most of the day today, but the population growth in the area is large, business is doing well and traffic growth is very high. It also provides, whether you like it or not, a basis for self-financing. The Vestfold society has chosen to prioritise E18. It's important for the whole state, and it's running off with large government appropriations, even though the proportion is also significant here. This means that local projects have to wait, if we do not choose a local amount, where we get a new road system in place considerably faster through self-payment. Anyone who has participated and who is now involved in addressing the issue of toll financing for projects and actions in the Tønsberg area knows that there is a broad and popular resistance to paying tolls. Local polls in the Tønsberg area have little doubt about that. At the same time, there is almost as much support behind the wish to build the ring road as we today give a clear signal for. The problem is that the options to achieve this without a significant degree of self-financing are not very credible. It also became unusually clear during the hearing of the Committee on Transport on the Tønsberg package on 8 January this year. A large number of courageous local politicians from the Workers' Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left in Tønsberg, the Nøtterøy and Tjøme, and in Westfold County have taken the burden of taking a responsibility in this matter, to cut through all the talk and find the recipe to get started building this new road. In my view, the benefits for the citizens will be very great, especially with regard to road safety. Remember, 25 pst. of all traffic accidents in Westfold occur in the road system with which we are currently struggling in the Tønsberg area. The Tønsberg package will mean much to the promotion, both for those living in the area, for business and for public transport. The main concept of this first part of the project is that the transit traffic, all heavy traffic, the transport of large quantities of dangerous goods, the transport of between 10 pst. and 15 pst. by all petrol used here in the country, is lifted out of the national city centre streets of Tønsberg – a city that has succeeded in creating a living centre, where trade takes place, where people are, a centre with more than 20,000 jobs. It means an enormous potential for the development of good public transport services. You get an opportunity to build on the large resource that was put into the city bike project a few years ago. The environmental benefit will be very high for the entire Tønsberg area. That is why I support the Government's proposal and the position put forward by the Committee on Transport here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e886	On the city's T-courses, here in Oslo, there's an advertising campaign for something quite different from what we're discussing here today, but the text of the campaign is quite interesting. It is that all people believe that there are at least two sides of the same thing, until they are themselves on one side of it. It is in many ways a bit of this debate, as I assume – and I have also been told – that the admission to road solutions for the Tønsberg area has had enthusiastic participants in several generations of politicians, until a proposal that could be adopted was approached. Then there was a great risk that something would be done, and then it was selected side by side. Today, some people say that they are trying to solve traffic problems, but they do not want the solution that is now available. They will have further investigations, despite investigations. My brief summary of this Tønsberg package now available is that it is actually an environmental package both in phase 1 and in phase 2. It's not 100 pst. in phase 1, but phase 1 and phase 2 may be 100 pst. as regards the safety of the environment and as regards ensuring the well-being of the area. What's important to me? What's that doing in many ways is I'm kind of going into a phase 1 that's not 100 pst.? That is because we have a significant political majority in all three municipalities, a significant political majority that says: Yes, we do! This is the first time. This magnificence should have said with great enthusiasm: at last they will, then we will have to be in place! Now the state is in place with only 5 pst. It is not an expression of state expressed desire and will. That's the result of a calculation, because that's what was left of money from the state when money was distributed according to the national transport plan. Despite the fact that it was only 5 pst., they said, OK, but we'll take the chance anyway, even if this becomes expensive. We at Stortinget should support the plan, and we should also say: especially in phase 2, where the collective share comes in, it should not be the Stortinge which is the problem, in order to ensure a sound funding that enables sensible action to be implemented, and which can contribute to the popularisation being of a different nature than the popular commitment that we have seen before. The collective share and public transport in the Tønsberg area cannot in any way be discussed in the same way as we discussed the Bergen programme. There are two different places, two different assumptions, two different stories that lie in it. However, it is clearly important that we focus on the collective share, because it is one of the prerequisites for Tønsberg to resolve its traffic problems, which will enable its well-being to be restored, the establishment of road safety and the overall improvement of the environment. I have seen the politicians who are behind this great majority in the three municipalities, being of that character. They want to bet on public transport. But in order to be able to do that, the road system has to be in place. That's what they're initially asking for the Storting's contribution to, so that we can get a solution. We may have had one in part destructive discussion locally. It's been read in the local press. You've been more concerned with explaining what you don't agree with, rather than creating a common venue for a common debate of interest. I'm not negative to the popular commitment. But what I hope for is that this popular commitment, after the treatment of the Storting, is now channelled in the direction that in the Tønsberg area, in all three municipalities, you say: All right, now is the thing we have to put behind us. Now, together, we're going to take responsibility for the way forward. I hope that this popular commitment will be the basis for us to sum up on the day that the Tønsberg package is realised, that it also has broad popular support.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e899	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e903	The Tønsberg area, as described in the Proposition, is covered by the municipalities of Tønsberg, Nøtterøy and Tjøme as well as parts of Stokke, Andebu, Re and Horten. This constitutes a common housing and labour market. In fact, local doubt has been raised that the labour market is significantly larger than only the municipalities mentioned. In a rich country, as Norway is described to be, it is strange to record the arduousness it is after charging citizens and businesses more taxes for the development of transport and infrastructure projects, while all agree that the level of costs in Norway is too high. Pressure in the form of increased pay demands and increased price of goods and services is once again, to the point where there is a lack of competitiveness. In the introduction of blockades at main shipping years, there will be a distortion of competition also for the local labour market, which certainly increases the wage requirements of individual workers. After all, everyone pays a price in solidarity for investment in transport via car-related charges. The introduction of this financing solution for the development of the road network around Tønsberg will result in local distortions of competition among enterprises operating in the area, as well as a significant increase in local business costs. Nøtterøy and Tjøme municipalities remain in a vacuum, as all traffic to these municipalities must pass through Tønsberg. Alternative driving routes simply do not exist. This means that the transport of labour, goods and services between, for example: The Sandefjord-Larvik region and Tjøme are charged an additional cost. The State share of the investment costs of the Tønsberg package is 5 pst. This actually means that all drivers who have an errand to Tønsberg, Nøtterøy and Tjøme will experience that only 5 pst. of what they pay in car-related charges comes back as an increased standard on the road network in their district. This cannot be perceived as anything but unfair. The need for investment in a good and rational road network in Norway is and has been neglected in our country since the beginning of the 1960s. The strange thing in this context is that the densely populated areas with the highest traffic density have been prioritised down and away in government budgets. The Progress Party wants solutions to the traffic problems in and around Tønsberg, because these are large. However, the lot does not want to introduce an extra charge to get this done. Investments in infrastructure are investments for the future – investments that car users have been waiting for for decades, through charges they have paid for just using a car. Now, business, travel and residents in the Tønsberg area will experience a bombardment that will be fully automated after media reviews, without crew, and actually without coin vending machines. The system shall be based on electronic chips and video surveillance. This does not promise good for the district's travel life, which will have to invest extra resources to explain to its visitors, foreign as Norwegian, how the system works.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e920	The debate on the Tønsberg package is also the debate on the state part of the funding. The county's priorities have been governing the country's share of 5 pst. However, it is understandable that the people’s wishes have been somewhat higher. That is why it is appropriate to honour the initiative of local politicians: if not the state, we do it ourselves! It's a healthy right logic. It has called for political opposition to the financing of traffic solutions by users in the Tønsberg area. Before the election, voters in the relevant municipalities were clearly informed about which batches would finance the user. The batches as requested for road development may be rigged. No one likes bombings, but in the election between the protest and implementation of necessary road systems, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Workers' Party have chosen the implementation line. With the Progress Party, the Tønsberg area had become without this road system. Whatever view of toll financing, the result of this accumulation will be summarized in the expression: zero more way – Progress Party! When Stage 2 is to be implemented, local authorities are wise to hide the comments of the government parties and the Workers' Party in their hearts. Higher collective priorities and parking opportunities outside the city are requested to protect living environments from transit and to provide better room for business transport and collective solutions. It will affect State contributions to the financing of urban transport systems if local authorities commit themselves to greater collective shareholdings, as the Minister for Transport says in a letter to the Committee of 22 January this year. The Tønsberg package provides important principal signals on the development of urban transport systems – on objectives and on resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e929	In this case, Stortinget deals with a proposal to finance tolls for the development of projects and actions in the Tønsberg area. In many ways, this feels like turning the world upside down. So a majority of the local government in Tønsberg, Nøtterøy and Tjøme seem to have to apply to allow their citizens to pay for the road systems that should have been in place a long time ago. This application must then be dealt with in the body which should have granted the money in the first instance. To put the matter in perspective, we have to go back to 1962, when plans were made for a four-field road from Nøtterøy to E18. Over 40 years since then, the Tønsberg region has been growing. On the one hand, this growth has made the traffic situation worse than ever. On the other hand, growth has contributed to high tax revenues. Most people don't understand this context. That's probably also the reason for the great commitment that the inhabitants of the Tønsberg region have shown. This exposure has resulted in more than 20,000 signatures against bombing. Gallup studies show that up to 80 pst. the population is against it. The newspapers are swimming over by letters of readers and comments, and to the city council meeting in Tønsberg, where this matter was dealt with, hundreds of people had found the way. I think I'm going to venture the claim that the majority of the local people elected here are on a collision course with their inhabitants. The result of the tolling will include, inter alia: that residents have to pay to drive within their own municipality. The trade industry in Tønsberg will have very difficult conditions of competition and the list of problems for the local environment is very long. The price of an average family can quickly reach NOK 10 000 to NOK 15 000, and this comes at the top of at least equal fiscal charges on cars and cars, from which they pay. I find it most disappointing to note that a government that promised lower taxes and taxes has promoted this proposition, which leads to a massive increase in fees, at least for those who live in the Tønsberg area. With the funding plan proposed in the proposal, the State contribution shall be 5 pst. In the debate, tolling has been seen and often called a splinter layer. To use a picture: if you want to split up at dinner and end up paying everything but coffee, you'll hardly think of it as splintering. Exploring is probably a more comprehensive expression, and as the Progress Party sees it, the inhabitants of the Tønsberg region are required to explore a new road project that the state should have financed many years ago. It's almost tragic when part of the expansion is going to solve the country's traffic problem at the state's own hospital. I will be allowed to recommend the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e942	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1683]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e958	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that 5 replies be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e967	Today we have a Document No. Eight proposals from Kenneth Svendsen, Thore A. Nistad and Christopher Stensaker to provide a free card for the payment of tolls to the local population living at E39 between Øysand and Thamshamn, who in the future will not be able to avail themselves of newly built E39. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Progress Party, opposes the proposal and agrees with the assessments made by the Minister for Transport in his reply to the Committee. I expect the Progress Party itself to justify its position in a later article. As rapporteur on this matter, I would like to refer to the general discussion of St.prp. No 83 for 2000-2001, where toll collection was adopted as part of the financing of the OPS project Øysand-Thamshamn on E39 and that the toll scheme would follow the applicable tariff guidelines, discount schemes included. The Minister for Transport has assessed Document No. The 8 proposal and does not consider the proposal to be in line with the toll guidelines for the toll project. The Minister for Transport believes that the situation described in Document No. The 8-proposal, also does not provide an exemption for tolls, which has been done in some cases. With that in mind, we are opposed to the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e984	I will be allowed to make the following suggestions, which have been included in the setting on page 2: ‘The Government requests the submission of a proposal for a system of free tickets for the payment of tolls to the local population living at E39 between Øysand and Thamshamn, which in the future will not be able to benefit from newly built E39.’ I want to justify this by saying that the local people who live near this bomb, for example. in Buvik and Viggja, in many cases they have to pay a toll fee to get to and from work even if they are not going to use the new road. In other words, they have to pay daily, and often several times a day, even if no new road is to be built locally. We in the Progress Party think it would be sensible to introduce a system with the exception of tolls for those who are registered in an area where tolls are collected on roads, but where it is obvious that the population in the future will not be able to make use of the new road.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e996	Thore A. Nistad has taken up the suggestion he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1683]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e1006	We then go to voting on case No. 1-3 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e1013	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Inge Ryan on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, from Inge Ryan on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government is asking the Government to come back to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible with proposals for changes to the law that give employees more guarantees of ownership when they change their property’.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e1037	Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, says: ‘The Government is asking the State Company Committee in its work to draw up proposals on how state companies can become more competitive through emphasising research and innovation activities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e1069	Here, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e1087	Separate voting will take place over the two sections of the Roman number. We're going to vote first over the first paragraph of III. The Socialist Left Party has announced that these will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e1099	So it goes over the third term. Here the President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e1120	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e1135	During the debate, Mr Nistad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The road system in the Tønsberg area is extended as described in St.prp. No 38 [[2002-2003]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e1168	Here the President has understood that the Socialist Left wants to vote against; that also applies to the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e1183	In the course of the debate, Mr Nistad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party: ‘The Government requests the submission of a proposal for a system of free tickets for the payment of tolls to the local population living at E39 between Øysand and Thamshamn, which in the future will not be able to benefit from newly built E39.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28.ana.ud921e1210	There is no record.
