ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e96	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Odelstingen meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e101	I suggest Heidi Grande Røys and Åsa Elvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e106	Heidi Grande Røys and Åsa Elvik are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Heidi Grande Røys and Åsa Elvik are unanimously elected presidents of the current week’s meetings at Odelstinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e109	The representative Per Sandberg will make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e112	On behalf of the representatives Signe Øye, Karin Andersen, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, Anita Apelthun Seele, Kari Lise Holmberg and myself, I would like to propose amendments to the Act on 4 July 1991 No. 47 on marriage, measures to ensure gender equality in formal divorce. I would also like to ask the Presidency to add to a quick record of the matter, perhaps already in today's meeting, so that Odelstinget may have progress, and that we have a decision already on this side of the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e119	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e133	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the Presidents will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, Center Party, Left, Coastal Party and Council of State 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e144	Children's right to decide about their own lives is strengthened when Odelstinget makes the Children's Convention Norwegian law today. This happens at the expense of adults. And that's good – for both adults and children. Children in Norway know that the words of adults are not final law. They argue with us about everything from the size of the pocket money to where the holiday trip is going. Not without reason is the growing genus called the ‘negotiation generation’. Children will be heard and taken into account when making decisions relevant to them. They want it to be age-old to be a child. The fact that children’s right to decide is enshrined in Article 12 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the majority of them consider when discussing homework, computer games, clothing codes and homework. However, children are independent legal entities with individual rights and therefore the UN has developed its own human rights for them. The Children’s Convention is one of the most central human rights conventions available. It gives children both civil, social and cultural rights. The Christian People's Party has worked for a long time to incorporate this convention into our national law. We are very pleased that it is now happening, both by incorporating it through the Human Rights Act and by clarifications in other legislation. Norway is a leading country in human rights work at both national and international level. In order for us to continue in the future – with credibility and weight – the work for the freedom of individuals, for equality, respect and the right of participation of individuals, it is important that the Children's Convention be made part of Norwegian law. In addition, the United Nations Committee on Children’s Rights has explicitly called on Norway to do so. The Children’s Convention is today accorded the same status as the European Convention on Human Rights and the UN Conventions on Civil and Political, Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. In Norway, the Convention is now ranked higher than usual. It is given the status between the Constitution and national law. This is a clear signal of the position and value of children in this country. Our national legislation is presumed to comply with human rights. If the courts consider our legislation to be contrary to such minimum international standards, the law shall be set aside and human rights shall prevail. In Norway, we do not compromise with the world society's minimum standards of individual rights. On some points, however, the Convention on the Rights of the Child is somewhat vague, and in addition it is addressed directly to the authorities in several places. In order to ensure that the Children’s Convention has a direct impact on children in Norway, it is therefore necessary not only to incorporate the Convention into the law but also to provide a basis for precise national legislation. In the proposal, the Government proposes several legislative changes to make the legislation clearer and more consistent with the Convention. The right of children to influence is not limited to the family. The Convention on the Rights of the Child obliges politicians, public servants and judges to hear children in matters relating to them. In order to ensure that opinions of children are heard and taken seriously, it is necessary to amend several provisions in different laws. The Children’s Convention gives children the right to express their own opinions in all matters affecting their lives, such as: Article 12. In order to secure this right for children, the Christian People's Party supports the Government's proposal to set a seven-year age limit in Section 6-3 of the Children's Protection Act and in Section 6 of the Adoption Act. Children aged seven are entitled to information and to comment on child protection and adoption issues. It is important for me to clarify that the seven-year limit is only an indicative age limit. Children under the age of seven shall also be heard if they are able to form their own views and wish to speak. The Children’s Ombudsman has criticised the Government’s proposal for a seven-year age limit in the Child Protection Act and the Adoption Act. It is claimed that the seven-year limit is contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which does not set any age limit for the participation of children. The Christian People's Party wants to change the practice of hearing children in the courts today and in the administration. We want more children to be heard. To achieve this goal – a goal we share with the Children’s Ombudsman – it is important not only to remove the existing age limit of 12 years, but, in fact, to provide a clear directive on hearing younger children. I don't think the right to codetermination will be real if the age limit is completely removed. The danger of continuing existing practices is, in our opinion, imminent. Now, decision-makers in the courts, in child protection and in other public institutions are being forced to hear younger and more children than they do today. It's in the children's interest. It is important to facilitate public relations so that the child has the opportunity to communicate his/her views. Arrangements may, for example: by drawing up guidelines. We also need to ensure that those who are set up to talk to children about adoption and matters under the Child Protection Act have the necessary skills. In my opinion, building up skills in child protection will be necessary, as much younger children now need to be heard than usual in the past. When competences in this area are built up in the Child Protection Service, it is likely that it is most appropriate that this department carry out the discussions with children necessary in matters covered by the adoption law. We believe, however, that it is not necessary to legislate such a division of tasks. At the discretion of the Christian People's Party, the final decision on what is most appropriate should be up to local democracy to decide. However, it is very important that children do not feel pressured to speak or to have an opinion on matters that affect them. The Convention on the Rights of the Child confers rights on children but does not impose obligations on them. Not all children feel good about their biological parents. Article 20 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child imposes a special responsibility on the State for these children. Social obligations to find an alternative place of residence for those who do not receive the necessary care at home. In the context of the transfer of care for a child to non-parents, the Convention requires that «adequate consideration» be given to the continuity of the child’s education. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to point out that there may be cases where it is not in the child's interest that it is placed in a foster home that perpetuates the traditions of the biological family. These circumstances may also suggest that the child should be placed in a home that has a different ethnic or religious background from that of the child’s biological parents. Where this is the case, consideration for continuity shall be given to the choice of care provider. In order to ensure that Section 4-15 of the Child Protection Act is understood as such, the majority of the Committee has made a clarification in the legal text. It should be made clear from the law that the consideration of continuity should only be given to ‘adequate’ weight. Article 34 of the Children’s Convention requires Norway to protect children from all forms of sexual exploitation and sexual abuse. Protection against such actions must include, inter alia: by means of clear criminal orders against sexual abuse of children. We have several such provisions in the penal code. However, I am pleased that the Government of the Proposition proposes clarifications in Section 204 of the Criminal Act, which makes it clear how the provision should be understood when a case concerns so-called child pornography. By defining children as persons under 18 years of age, we will properly fulfil our international obligations in this area and also give a clear signal that children are not to be assessed as sexual objects. During treatment of Ot.prp. No 62 Odelstinget will, later today, raise the penalties for pornography from two to three years in prison. This means that the penalties for members of organised pedophile networks will be in full six years. Such an extension will further strengthen the protection of children from sexual abuse. That is why the Christian People's Party warmly welcomes this tightening of punishment. Child pornography is evidence of child abuse – neither more nor less. We need our own ban on child pornography. I think it is very positive that an overwhelming majority in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights share this view and look forward to the Stortinget having the proposal for such a provision under consideration. Article 23 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child confers special rights on children with disabilities. In this respect, I would like to stress that in November 2002, the Government set up a legislative committee to assess the need to improve the rights of people with disabilities. If this sample considers that there is a need for a law ensuring equality and the absence of discrimination for the disabled, it follows from the mandate that proposals for such a law should be drawn up. Work on strengthening the rights of children with disabilities is central to the work of the sample. A decision involving a minor shall always be taken on the basis of the best interests of the child. It follows from the Children's Convention Article 3. This guideline is in the interests of society and adults. The children are our insurance for the further processing and development of the family, of the community and of the country as a whole, therefore they must be treated with understanding, insight and respect. Children deserve to be taken seriously! The current position of the Justice Committee in this House in Odelstinget is a position which will make children feel better in Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e206	It is gratifying that the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is finally incorporated into Norwegian law. However, festivities and unanimity must not make us forget that for the children of the world the most thing is done. It is now possible to give a new start. The Convention strengthens the right of children to be heard in matters relating to them. The opinion of the child shall be weighted. However, it is a cross of thought that the Convention is being incorporated so late. Children are in many ways the world's weakest group. As a group, they don't require anything. They are completely dependent on the actions of adults. We are many who hope that the world will fulfill the promises of the children. Children need to be made clearer on the agenda. In thinking about market adaptation and globalisation, the best standard for children is a foreign word. We're in a field that we can't measure in any currency. The new slogan on the right, ‘More for money’, is incredibly bad here too. Now that the Children's Convention is incorporated into Norwegian law, this child is entitled to school, health, life and protection. Ensuring the rights, health and development of the children of the world is the key to sustainable development in a country. It is also the key to peace and security in the world. The Convention addresses a number of important rights and protections, including the provision on child pornography. This has occupied us in the Workers' Party. Child pornography is a serious social problem and must be described as a terrible assault on the children affected by this industry. Child pornography will always be a product of abuse against children, and possession of child pornography is pure exploitation. The demand for such material is maintained by a market in which children are exposed to new and persistent abuses, and that is something that needs to be seriously addressed. To date, the prohibition of possession of child pornography has been regulated by the general law on pornography, which is intended to protect society from immoral, unpleasant and offensive acts. I would like to stress, on behalf of the Workers' Party, that a ban on child pornography must primarily protect children from sexual abuse. In order to strengthen children’s rights and to protect against sexual abuse and exploitation, several, including the Workers’ Party, have been implemented in order to lift the ban on possession of child pornography from the general law on pornography. We meet the Government's legislative proposal. By having a separate provision in the criminal law on child pornography, we will make it clear that all forms of child pornography are prohibited and punishable. In other words, it is more than a pornographic crime that requires a criminal offence. We make it clear that the ban on child pornography should primarily protect children from sexual abuse. Therefore, such a provision does not belong in a provision intended solely to protect society. By raising the provision on child pornography, we will also develop the number of crimes committed in this area through criminal statistics. The inclusion of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, with the amendments proposed, strengthens the rights of children in a number of areas. When we've chosen to produce child pornography in particular, it's because it's completely unacceptable abuse. I think we can still remember today the general condition of children worldwide. Internationally, children lack much. A total of 14 million children under the age of 15 have lost one or both parents in the AIDS epidemic. Every day 4,000 children die as a result of hunger. 150 million children worldwide are undernourished. 2 million children have been killed in the last decades as a result of war. Six million children have been injured as a result of war. Some 180 million children between the ages of 5 and 17 are kept in the most serious form of child labour. Every year, 1.2 million children are exposed to trafficking. Every day, even today, thousands of children die as a result of elementary diseases of Norwegian children who are of course spared. The world has an environmental movement and a women's movement. Now it's the baby's movement's turn. The work on the Children’s Convention at home should therefore now be done not only in Norway but also, to a maximum extent, in Norway and in Europe with regard to the children under another world sky, who are struggling far more than the children we are facing. Work on the Children’s Convention at home should also contribute to the publication of the Convention and its effective application. It requires very specific information measures aimed in particular at those to be protected, namely the children. The Labour Party meets the treatment that foreign legislation will receive in the future, in particular with regard to the children. There is reason to ask questions about, for example, today. children of refugees in Norway are taken sufficiently into account, in particular in the family reunification cases, and whether the interests of children of displaced persons are adequately safeguarded. There is little to be heard when the result can be total separation over a very long time. At a time when we struggle to be the most resolute and strictest possible in criminal policy, most of us forget that the children remain alone. We have an obligation to go into this and clean it up. This shows that the legal work on the Children's Convention has to be something more than mere celebrations. We must not forget that the children are the most important thing we have, and in this context, it is high time that today we incorporate this convention into Norwegian law. It can't be a sleeping cushion. We're not done with the job. That's when it all starts. I allow myself to address the proposal that the Workers' Party is promoting together with the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e232	The representative Knut Storberget has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e235	Nothing is more wrong than a quote from the great cultural revolution in Communist China in the 1960s, which stated: "You are close, Mother is close to you, but no one is as close to you as President Mao." What is the most important thing for a child in growth? It's the safe and social growth conditions a solid family can provide. Nothing can replace this. The safe environment of the home provides ground for a healthy starting point for the gradual independence of a child’s mind. Mother and father, and no one else, are the best prerequisites for knowing the best of the child. In an increasingly changing world, and in the communicative world, children are overwhelmed with vast amounts of uncensored impulses. TV, mobile phones, the Internet, magazines and newspapers massacre the child’s mind with unsorted information. The ability to handle these impulses depends on the child's development, on the parents' awareness, on the surrounding environment, like the school and the team of comrades. Also increased institutionalisation, commercialism, globalisation, changes in family structures, as well as a plethora of information forms the emerging market. Just a few days ago, we read in the newspaper about a survey that showed children and young people's dangerous web friendships, which turns out that thousands of children meet strangers in hiding after contact via the Internet. Thousands of Norwegian children may thus have been subjected to verbal or physical abuse. Fortunately, there are several convictions against older perpetrators who have sexually assaulted children. Unfortunately, there are many more cases that are never discovered. From a judgment in Frostating Lawyers' Court in February 2001, the following point is made: ‘In this case, it has been illustrated how easy it is to establish contact via chat channels on the Internet between curious, tried and tested minors and others seeking ‘sexual partners’.’ Who is the one who has the greatest opportunity to guide his children using e.g. Internet? No one stands closer to his children than mother and father. Their vigilance becomes crucial for how children tackle changing impulses from the outside world. The production of child pornography material, which is now considered to be a sexual offence, is now being penalised by the standard standards of morality. The courts have recently tightened the level of penalties in this type of case, in line with previous signals from the Storting. Unfortunately, the upper part of the penal framework is not sufficiently used. The need for policy setting lower penalties increases as the courts fail to take advantage of the upper bounds of the criminal framework. The absence of lower penalties should provide the courts with a discretionary opportunity in some cases, but not in all, to assess each case in relation to the entire criminal framework. However, abuse of children is extremely serious and will affect a human being throughout his life. For example, in the context of reinforced criminal provisions relating to organised crime: pedophile networks could be covered by the federal provision of criminal law, i.e. an increased penalty framework. Police must actively engage in the work of detecting and combating child pornography on the Internet. Systematisation and strengthening of police investigations, while revising investigation methods and data tools, will increase the possibilities of preventing abuse and detecting perpetrators. A serious dilemma is the level of competence of Norwegian courts, or different burden of proof, depending on the type of case. Although an offence is not sufficiently burdened by evidence of a conviction of criminal law, a criminal conviction affects the outcome of a civil court judgment, even if the claim to the burden of proof is different. In the past, the Children’s Ombudsman has criticized politicians in particular for not turning the speeches into practical policies. Children should be an important premiscuous provider of political decisions. The incorporation of the Children’s Convention into Norwegian law will give children’s rights overall greater status. Norway, as an international driver of human rights issues, will have greater credibility in other issues as well. Nothing can replace safe growing conditions. In Sarpsborg, police and various municipal agencies have committed themselves to cooperation to prevent juvenile delinquency. The experience is very good and almost eye-catching. In the past, much of the prevention work has been aimed at having a separate strategy against those who might commit or have committed a crime. Experiences from Sarpsborg regarding such a strategy revealed that the pick-up people considered this a honeymoon and were perceived by others as a status symbol in the group. The new strategy focuses on the framework conditions for criminal action. In particular, focus on reconquering the public space of non-criminal youth and problem youth, increasing social control in school, leisure and family life, making youth environments transparent while building relations between the positive forces in the community were some of the ingredients. Safe growing conditions do not become a reality alone with a strengthened law for children. It is the effort in the community and the interaction between actors that will determine in the long term whether we succeed in providing better growth conditions for children.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e259	It is important to incorporate the conventions ratified by Norway into the law. In particular, this is important in relation to the legal perception of the population, because it is, of course, also – rightly so – seen by many as strange to have a situation where Norway, as a nation, is obliged to comply with the Children’s Convention in relation to other nations, but not in the same way bound to do so to its own inhabitants. We are pleased that the Children's Convention is now being incorporated, and have understood that this can be done under the motto "better late than never". It is important for children to be able to feel participation where children have the opportunity and maturity to do so. The fact that others treat and assess your head without being able to participate is something that no one feels comfortable with. On the other hand, it is also important that a person does not feel pressured to decide, especially where loyalty conflicts arise in relation to one’s closest. I think the proposition in many ways has found that balance. As far as age limits are concerned, they seem to be a good starting point, but I also understand that maturity is still crucial. In the case of child protection matters and adoption matters, it is important to be able to give an opinion in the capacity of the person concerned. It may be in the interest of the child to be able to participate in child protection matters in particular, so that one can also influence and accept the final decisions taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e270	It is really a great pleasure to be here on this matter, because Norway is now taking the historic step of incorporating the Children’s Convention into Norwegian law, as well as making it visible through partially active transformation. This is incredibly important, and SV has gone into trouble for such a grip for many years. As you know, the children are very happy about it, and as far as I know, we even get flowers after this meeting is over. It's not bad! Incorporating the Convention on the Rights of the Child means, in particular, a signal effect internationally. What Norway is doing in this field is important. In addition, the visibility of Norway’s Children’s Convention in several areas of the law is also important in order to better understand the concrete implications of its incorporation in different areas. But I think at the same time that we could have gone a step further. We could have made the Children's Convention visible more places in the law than what has been done. I think it's a little passive by the Government. When they first chose to take a reasonably active grip, I think they could drive the line completely out and visualize the Children's Convention several places. It has given SV an expression in its comments. We have had close and good cooperation with various organisations in this regard, including: Save the children. The Justice Committee has also been incredibly lucky to have had the opportunity to attend one of the most interesting seminars I've ever attended, which the Children's Ombudsman organized for us. It's one of the most inspiring seminars I've ever attended. I learned so much about kids, and the whole attitude toward those who spoke for us was that children are people equal to adults and have to be taken seriously in a completely different way from what we have traditionally done. And when it was also made clear how we in Norway have gone from having such an attitude towards young people and to highly professionalising and dissuading children, it is a signal I think we should take seriously. We should take a closer look at it in the future, actually with a historical and philosophical look. I also believe that the Judicial Committee could have been tougher with regard to age limits in relation to the law. We should have completely removed the age limit, which most organizations working with children for the day have recommended us to do. I understand that the Government's intention is good, and that the purpose of the proposal is that by setting an age limit you want to ensure at least kids down to that age, which is now seven years old and not twelve. But I think it would be better if we, for example, implemented a proposal that SV has made since the Children’s Ombudsman asked us to address this, to provide a real child-care professional competence for all those working with young people, which unfortunately we were left alone, and that we should also develop methods that make it possible to hear children properly. For what has been given to us as a strong signal during this process has actually been that there are no kids there is something wrong with when they are not heard, but that it is society, which is not organized in a way that makes it possible to understand what it is kids want. At the same time, SV believes it is extremely important that children are not pressured to speak if they do not want to. It is a right that all children should have, but it should not be an obligation for the children. In many ways, it is very ok for kids not to have an opinion – that’s true for adults too! Children shall be guaranteed such a right, but there shall be no obligation. I think Norway has some way to go again. It says, among other things: The United Nations Children’s Rights Committee, which is working to monitor the proper application of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, by the countries which have ratified the Convention. That's a lot of areas in which we're very bad. This applies in particular to disabled children and their equal rights to participation in society. There we are very bad. And that's not the least in relation to the foreign field. Asylum seekers, in particular single minor asylum seekers coming to Norway, are not treated in the same way as Norwegian children. They are not subject to the Child Protection Act in the same way as Norwegian children. Here the Progress Party and SV agree on a note to ensure that these children are given the same rights under the Children's Protection Act as the Norwegian children. I think that should be a matter of course. A foreign law committee working on this particular piece is set up and, fortunately, the Children's Convention is part of the mandate of this committee, which is to be subject to the Foreign Affairs Act in this field. SV also has some contact with the Fangers Family Association, which reports that children are not even heard about the expulsion of criminals who have a connection with Norway. Then the children won't be heard. Many fathers who have committed a criminal act, and who then have the son and made up for themselves, are thrown out, regardless of the relationship with the child. It does not always happen, but it has happened, and it is a violation of children's rights in relation to having contact with their parents, so sail if they are not Norwegian. I think we should take that seriously. The same applies to children of asylum seekers coming here. They must be heard and their rights respected in a completely different way. I think it is a pity that SV has not received a majority in favour of our proposal to investigate whether the competence to expel a foreigner who has committed a criminal act should be conferred on the courts, instead of being an administrative decision. It happens in Sweden – there is the court that assesses this. It is believed that in this way there is a different opportunity to take care of human rights than when it is the administration that makes the decision. At least the administration should be provided with the necessary competence to ensure child care, irrespective of the colour and background of the skin. SV is very pleased that we and the Workers' Party have got together with the entire committee that we are now going to take the decision on child pornography out of the law on pornography, and that we are now going to have a different definition of child pornography. The term ‘children’s pornography’ is totally misleading, because this is evidence of sexual abuse against children, and it should also be addressed in this way in the penal code. We can't have it under the same paragraph as the one dealing with adult pornography – it's going to be totally wrong. This is now organizing the committee, and it's very good. I am addressing the suggestions SV has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e298	The representative No Marte Thorkildsen has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e301	I am pleased that a unanimous judiciary has adhered to the main principles of the Government's proposal, both that the UN Children's Convention will now be incorporated into Norwegian law by the Law of Human Rights, and that some articles will be transformed and made visible in other Norwegian legislation. I am also pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees with all the concrete legislative changes proposed by the Government to make the UN Children's Convention more visible in Norwegian legislation. The visibility and clarification of the provisions of the Children’s Convention in the law in which they naturally belong will help to ensure that Norwegian authorities comply well with the Children’s Convention. I have noticed in particular that a collective justice department is behind the proposal for the amendment to the penal code section 204. The change in the definition of children in relation to child pornography will provide better protection against sexual exploitation for people under 18 years of age. Child pornography is, to the most extent, a cross-border phenomenon. The negotiation of the Additional Protocol to the Children’s Convention and the proposed amendment of Section 204 are therefore also an important example of the interaction between international regulatory development and harmonisation of national rules in order to effectively combat this type of crime. I have noted the Committee's requests to draw up a specific criminal order on child pornography to make it clear that this is a violation of children and is to be dealt with in this way, and to address the need for changes in the criminal framework for possession of these offences in order to create justice with EU countries. However, I would like to emphasise that the applicable criminal law clearly states that sexual abuse against children is prohibited by the rules of Chapter 19 of the Act on sexual offences, in particular Sections 195 and 196 on sexual assault against children. However, the majority of the Justice Committee now has its seat in the Innst. O. No 118, which is being treated later today, has been committed to increasing the penalty framework from two to three years imprisonment in Section 204 of the Criminal Act, in particular with a view to illegal possession of child pornography, a change which, at the same time as the proposal for a new Section 60(a), will increase the upper penalty framework for organised activities to a total of six years in prison. The Committee has proposed that the Government carry out a review of the laws and practices of children with disabilities with a view to making Norway’s obligations under the Children’s Convention visible. The Government has recently set up a sample to assess the need for new legislation to strengthen legal protection against discrimination against disabled persons and, where appropriate, to propose such legislation. It appears from the mandate of the panel that the committee's proposals are to be within the framework of Norway's international commitments. It is natural that the rights of disabled children are seen in the context of this work, and I will make the selection aware of the decision of the Storting and ensure that it is implemented. I have also noted the Committee's comments on the implementation of the UN Torture Convention, the UN Women's Convention and the UN Convention on Racial Discrimination, and in particular the call for the Government to give priority to the implementation of the UN Convention on Racial Discrimination. As you know, a sample has investigated and proposed a new law against ethnic discrimination. The proposal has been sent to the hearing and is now under consideration in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. A law against ethnic discrimination can itself be seen as implementing and making the United Nations Convention on Racial Discrimination visible and will strengthen legal protection against discrimination and racism in Norway. It will also be assessed whether, in addition, the Convention should be incorporated into Norwegian law, as proposed by the sample. For the Government, the fight against racism and ethnic discrimination is a priority area. It is particularly important in these times when the fight against terrorism has come to the fore. The fight against terrorism is important and necessary, but it is equally important that the measures we are implementing comply with our international human rights obligations and that it does not lead to discrimination against, and prejudice against, for example. Muslims in general. The government therefore sees the work of a new law against ethnic discrimination as an important and priority work and aims to promote a proposition at the beginning of 2004. I found it right to link these principal remarks to this small comment in the committee's position, because I think it is also important to say that there is a work going on. However, at the end of this article, I would like to focus first and foremost on what a number of representatives have been involved in – and that for me was made quite strongly visible at a hearing that the Children's Ombudsman had, where I got what I thought before I got there, and was strengthened while I was there – that it is important for children to be heard. It's an impression I've brought with me. The views on how this has not been taken into account, or has been misjudged in relation to the adult world, seem to me to have been made clear in many ways in the posts of a number of representatives here. For my part, I would like to stress that, of course, I support the reflections that have emerged here. The hearing of the children’s ombudsman managed in an excellent way, in addition to the intellectual, at least emotionally, to make it very clear to me, not least by the way it was organised, and not least by the way in which children were involved in what happened at the hearing. In addition to this, I have no comments. I'm glad the Storting takes this step. And even if someone says it was time, we're glad that we took it out of the drawer together, that others treated it with intensity and glow, and that we've got a good attitude that we could treat here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e325	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e328	It has been addressed by the representative of Thorkildsen and also by me in our main post today, the question of the situation of children of refugees in Norway. I understand it this way, and I am pleased that the Government points to the work to be done in relation to foreign law. However, there are two groups of children who may require special attention even before the work on the Foreign Affairs Act is completed – it concerns children of the parents who are expelled, among others. in the case of criminal offences, and in the case of family reunification cases, in particular in the case of unborn children. Will the implementation of the Children’s Convention in Norwegian law today mean that the Government will go further into this work before any changes are made to the Foreign Affairs Act, so that no children are now suffering injustice and do not receive the protection that the Children’s Convention actually gives them?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e335	I can't or will not improvise right. I think what is clear for everyone here is that foreign legislation is being reviewed. In this context, the situation of children — in different contexts — should also be considered, as many people have pointed out. If something is to be done in addition to the work being done, which is in full swing, is the view that I would like to take with me and discuss with the Minister for Municipalities. But I don't want to go any further here today than to express myself that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e342	I am terribly concerned with the children's right to be heard. I wonder if it is that if the seven-year-old change does not turn out to be effective, because there are always some others who define whether or not the child should be heard, whether or not it is mature enough – and therefore only the most resource-intensive children who are being heard – will the Council of State then reconsider its position and possibly accept what a massive number of hearing bodies have asked for, namely that we remove the age limit altogether? So one more thing, and this is Wenche Siljeholm, who is a psychologist and expert, who was at the hearing of the Children's Ombudsman. She was very concerned about the child's rights in child distribution matters. I recommend the Council of State to take a talk with her about how the courts deal with this, and how they are practical, e.g. by: having a picture of a young person standing in the courtroom when there is a child-sharing case may distort attention from war between parents to deal with the best interests of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e349	I'm generally of the opinion that we humans can always be wiser about how we treat each other. I have recently spoken at a meeting of the Judiciary's Association in connection with the heads of court in Trondheim about how to act in the courtroom with normal wisdom. It goes without saying that in cases where children are involved, there is every reason to stress it further. I'm taking with me recordings that are about to expand this insight and this reflectivity, which I can see was what was in the last part of Thorkildsen's post. But I can't go into the laws of others here and now. What I can answer is why we have chosen a seven-year limit. I get the idea that you don't set a limit at all, because you're based on getting the best possible situation. It has been my opinion, as expressed in the proposition, that having a limit at least ensures that you reach them down to seven years, and then you exercise a good judgment. So it's like this one, like with all other things, that we're going to learn from what's happening along the way, because that's the way we make the best possible law according to our intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e358	I thank you for your answer. I'm interpreting it positively. We are going to follow this closely in the future, and I expect that we will get recordings from the organisations we have now been in contact with. I want to ask about another thing. This is what the representative Storberget also had in the previous line. As far as the children of foreigners are concerned, I would like to ask very specifically: does the Council of State consider that Norway, if the best child under the Children's Convention, is subject to the Foreign Affairs Act and the considerations that lie there, in very specific cases, such as: are about expulsion, such as: is concerned with residence, cannot accept it in the future, now that the Children's Convention is actually incorporated into Norwegian law?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e365	The representative asks me a question that requires me to actually make a freestyle and open assessment that is actually assigned to a sample – a sample that will first look at the Foreign Affairs Act and its relationship with a number of other considerations. The fact that this work is done by skilled people is something I respect. It is a work that will go its way and that will have to have the balances given in the mandate of the sample. Then I replied earlier to a question from the representative of Storberget, who was also quite specific, whether anything could happen before. And then I'd like to repeat the answer: there's something I'm going to deal with with with the municipal minister. There is no promise that something will happen concretely now, but because the question is asked, in an important debate here, and because I think at least a reflection should cost you, I repeat that the question I promise to pass on, as I have previously black representative Storberget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e372	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e375	It is gratifying that the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is finally incorporated into Norwegian law. Compliance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child is the same as respecting human rights. The Convention has been ratified by countries around the world. It makes it a unique instrument for improving children's conditions. The Convention is revolutionary in an international context and goes a long way in consolidating the rights of children, for example the right to be heard. The Convention challenges our view of the children and what childhood should contain of rights and obligations. As the representative of Storberget pointed out in his statement, it is important that the Convention does not now become a sleep cushion after the incorporation into Norwegian law. The Convention also presents challenges. I would like to point out what the Children's Ombudsman is focusing on from challenges surrounding the incorporation of the Children's Convention: Making the Children’s Convention message really is not just a responsibility for politicians, bureaucrats and courts, both in the children’s groups and in the lives of each child. It's a main task for everyone who meets children in their profession. Every adult must show respect for the child’s position, experience and opinions. The Children’s Convention must be used as an active instrument and must permeate policy decisions at national and local level. It shall be used actively and shall not become a resting pad. The Convention on the Rights of the Child covers important areas of the life of children. Through what we are adopting today, such as the tightening up of child pornography regulations and the right to be heard more, we are doing an important work that will affect the everyday life and life of a large and important group. In particular, I would like to highlight the importance of strengthening and highlighting the provision on child pornography. Noting that child pornography is something other than ‘common’ pornography is important. Child pornography is always an abuse and exploitation of children and must always be treated as such. The change in the laws of this particular field is necessary. Societal development, the flow of information and the Internet are issues that are highly topical. At the beginning of the 1990s, 300,000 people were connected to the Internet. In 2001, over 200 million people were connected. In 2005, network users are expected to exceed 1.2 billion. The Internet has over 2 billion pages. About 670 million of these pages contain child pornography material. How many suffering children there are hiding behind these numbers, we know nothing about. What suffering they have suffered is almost impossible to imagine. The law must protect against infringements. Own prohibition of child pornography also marks active distance from child abuse and the fight for the protection of children’s interests. The working party is pleased that pose pictures with children shall be prohibited following the provision on child pornography. We also welcome a tightening of the penalties for the sale, possession and possession of child pornographic material. Today, the law has a disproportionately low penalties for this, lower than the vast majority of European countries. The inclusion of the Convention on the Rights of the Child now strengthens the rights of children in a number of other areas. We're going to grab hold of the child porn as an unacceptable assault. Child pornography is not pornography in the usual sense. It is only about child abuse – exclusively! It is grounded that it has been put in the same booth as pornographic material in general. The law has a normative effect on society. We must not believe that laws are an instrument that will always be able to solve the problem of adverse events. Children are best protected by the creation of attitudes in society that make it unacceptable for children to be regarded as sexual objects for adults. The transition is not sharp between sexual abuse and other sexual exploitation. In any case, children are entitled to protection. We're not going to say that this country is good for adults to use pictures of naked children who pose. Therefore, it is also important that posing images are banned following the provision on child pornography. The incorporation of the Children's Convention into Norwegian law is historic. Today, we are doing a lot of work for children's rights. Tomorrow it will be up to us to comply with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e412	Most children and young people have good and safe growth and living conditions with good development potential. But there are also some children who don't have it as well. In recent years, children’s rights have received increased attention both in everyday life, in legislation and in research. It is undoubtedly a right for a child to be heard democratically and taken into account. The view of children as independent individuals has been reflected in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child to Participation and Participation is among the main principles. The UN has proved to be a driver to focus on the rights of children, young people and women. The focus on children’s rights through the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is one example of how UN work provides the basis for improving the growth and living conditions of children and young people. I think it has a very big signal effect in itself that the UN focuses so much on giving all children access to basic education and on protecting children from abuse, exploitation and violence. It's time for things to happen. Norway was noted that the Children’s Convention was not incorporated when Norway reported to the United Nations Children’s Committee. The UN Children's Convention gave the world a human rights tool that specifically addresses the situation of children. The Convention states that children should not be discriminated against, that all actions for and on behalf of children should be in the best interest of the child, that all children have the right to life, survival and development, and that the views of children should be respected. What is so positive now is that children are defined as actors by their own rights and dignity. The Convention on the Rights of the Child determines the right of children to participate and their right to be heard in matters relating to them. There are many reasons why children should participate, and one of them is that children’s participation is important, as the decisions we take today affect the children tomorrow. In the hearing that the Judicial Committee had with Red Children on 24 April, I think Redd Barna was very good at finding out what the incorporation of the Children's Convention really means. Fear Barna stressed that the incorporation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child into Norwegian law would be a victory for children in Norway and that the inclusion would have an impact on Norway’s international work, as it shows that Norway is a country that takes children’s rights seriously. And it would just be missing if we didn't do this now, because Norway is going to be a leading country in the work on human rights. Through incorporation, Norway shows that the rights of children are granted high status. It will also give Norway greater credibility in international work. The Convention covers the entire spectrum of human rights and covers all children. One of the most important things about the Convention is that it regards children as its own legal entities, as independent individuals with special rights. It provides children, who are a particularly vulnerable group, with special protection and assistance. The government parties are very pleased that there is such a consensus in the Committee on this important matter. However, the right and Christian People's Party is a little surprised by the majority, who are in favour of reviewing the law and practices of children with disabilities. I would like to remind you of what the Government has done in this area, although I am quite sure that the majority knows what the Government did on 29 November 2002 when it set up a legislative committee to assess the needs of its own anti-discrimination law in order to better safeguard the rights of people with disabilities, not least on the basis of Norway's international obligations. The committee shall draw up proposals for such legislation, in which case the strengthening of the rights of children with disabilities will be central. Finally, I just want to say that this is a big day for all children in Norway, because we are going to decide later today that all children should be heard and be seen as independent individuals with special rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e435	Fortunately, most children in Norway are doing well, as many have been involved. Nevertheless, I am pleased that we are now in Norway doing fully the work that results in our international obligations in relation to children's rights being implemented. Children are more vulnerable than us adults, and need an extra protection. They need to be kept and heard when making important decisions about their lives. Today, when we decide to incorporate the UN Children's Convention into Norwegian law, we take this into account. I am also pleased that there is largely an overall committee that follows up this with changes in the Administrative and Child Protection Act. There's a lot of agreement on most points. It is important that Norway, which is at the forefront of the international fight for children's rights and against child labour in the third world and in the rest of the world, now itself follows up by incorporating and not just ratifying the UN Children's Convention. As far as the disagreement is concerned, I have noticed that the Progress Party and SV have proposed a legal right to child protection services. On the right, it seems important that child protection should not take more of the responsibility of families, but rather work to build up and support families. In cases where home does not have the power to care, society has a special duty to organise the system that ensures that all children receive good care and growth conditions, but I do not see that this legislative proposal, which has also been promoted both in the family committee and in the social committee, is particularly well-founded. When we look at the obligations imposed on the municipalities today, it is our view that the law of rights will have little real impact on the users of the services. In our view, the rules on child protection and the responsibilities of municipalities – the rules of procedure, including the right to apply to the county council and the county council’s supervision of the municipalities – respect for the child in a satisfactory and appropriate manner. That is why I would strongly warn against this proposal being adopted. We don't know what's being adopted here today in this room, so I want to warn you about this minority proposal. Today, all children have an individual right to care failure. Municipalities have an obligation to provide services. The proposal is therefore considered to be lenient, but it may have untold consequences. Let me again stress that it is a matter of course that the municipalities today provide assistance to children in matters of care failure. Current legislation is sufficient at this point. This is primarily a day of joy, and I want to point out a paradox. We have also dealt with the dog law this spring – at the latest today – and we all remember how committed the media, individuals, organisations and representatives were in this matter. So we had a hearing for the Dog Act and the Children's Convention on the same day in the Justice Committee. While there was a full hall and quite audacious muzzles during the hearing about a dog, it was quite empty during the hearing on children. There were organisations that worked with children's rights, the Children's Ombudsman and others, who were present during the hearing. I would also like to say that we have received our e-mail from dog e-mails – angry dog owners have written a letter and sent an e-mail to the committee. I do not think we have received any e-mails from parents or children in Norway who have been involved in the incorporation of the Children's Convention. Maybe it's that in today's society, where we have it very well, the pets have become more important than the children. Is it the case that dogs today should have better legal protection than children? There are such reflections one does. But I know it won't be like this. I don't think most people think that way either. But it's a paradox that there's a lack of the same commitment as a pet experience, to children's rights outside this hall. Fortunately, the Red Children and others will celebrate this day. I think it is important that we in the Storting, along with the government, the Government, etc., contribute to the fact that it is also known among children that the Children's Convention is now incorporated, and that, of course, information material adapted to the target group is being developed, which shows that children are being taken seriously in this country. That's what all of our kids deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e455	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 858]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e471	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the case leader and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President sees it as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e480	For me, this matter of stepping up efforts against coercion has been very interesting to work with, but also in many ways very difficult, because meeting victims of coercion, hearing their stories and getting into their situation has really been terrible, and because I've heard stories that I really couldn't believe are true, because they're so cruel. I have met several victims of coercion who have tried to oppose the marriage and have experienced kidnapping, violence and killing threats. The stress they put on us is hard to understand for us outside. The victims I've met have made a strong impression, mainly because they're so brave and fighting a fight for their own freedom. I am therefore very pleased that the Stortinget will agree later today at almost every point in this law that strengthens the effort towards forced marriage. It's supposed to be voluntary to marry. Marriage should be based on love. Freedom to choose a spouse is a fundamental human right. Unfortunately, not everyone gets the opportunity to get married of love or of his own free will. It scares me that forced marriages occur so often in Norway, and that it is much more widespread than we have previously believed. Forced marriage is a violation of fundamental human rights. It's an infringement of the individual's right to choose his or her own spouse. Combating coercion is a social issue and therefore also a social responsibility. But we cannot, however, relieve the individual of responsibility. Ultimately, the person who causes or enforces the coercion is responsible. Everyone must have equal obligations and equal rights here in the country, while having the freedom to assert their values, to follow their cultural traditions and to practice their faith. The framework shall be Norwegian law and fundamental human rights. For the Right, it is important that everyone should be given the opportunity to take personal responsibility, while respecting the individual freedom that each of us is entitled to. A fundamental freedom for me is e.g. to have the opportunity to determine my own life and to whom I will marry. Unfortunately, not all have this freedom. I am very pleased that the law that the Stortinge will adopt today is intended primarily to counteract coercion. This is one of the measures of the Government’s action plan against forced marriage. According to the action plan, changes in criminal law are one of several measures to prevent cases of forced marriage. I am pleased that the Committee is working together on changes in the field of criminal law to make it clear that forced marriage is prohibited in Norway. There should be no doubt whatsoever that forcing anyone to marry is a violation of Norwegian law. The ability to choose for yourself the person to marry is a fundamental human right. When we know that such abuses are constantly happening, often without being reported or that victims are getting help, it is time for the justice of those affected to be strengthened. Forced marriage is already a criminal offence after the provision of unlawful coercion in the first paragraph of Section 222. However, the Committee sees a need to raise the issue of forced marriage in its own criminal order and to make it clear that forcing someone to marry is a criminal offence. Similarly, the Committee has wanted to clarify what is to be regarded as coercive in relation to marriage, and considers it important that the legislator does so through the observations of the law. In matters relating to violations of fundamental human rights and serious violations, we as legislators should guide how the law is applied. The Committee considers that putting someone out of a position to act on a voluntary basis, that the person entering into a marriage has actually been subjected to a pressure. Furthermore, it must have been imposed by unlawful conduct or by the threat of such conduct. For example, a clear example of unlawful conduct is: when someone has been subjected to violence, detention or deportation until he or she has accepted marriage. Threats and psychological coercion may be more common than physical coercion in cases of forced marriage in Norway. Psychiatric coercion could also be affected by the ban. If you, for example, if someone threatens to cut him off from the family, there will be such a strong pressure that the threat is unlawful. The Judicial Committee has made it clear in its observations that coercion is something other than arranged marriage. The term ‘arranged marriage’ refers to my view that the family is actively involved in finding or proposing candidates for eczema. Depending on the existence of forced marriages, if the proposal for eczema really gives the young person the opportunity to say no. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Socialist Left Party, supports the proposal of unconditional public prosecution in proceedings under Section 222 and on threats under Section 227. In pointed situations, where dialogue is completely impossible between parents and children, we believe that there will be an additional burden on the offended person if charges require his request. It is therefore essential that the offended person be exempted from further pressure. This will now be done by removing the charge liability from those affected and transferring it to the prosecution authorities. Children shall be ensured that no marriages are arranged that violate the child’s right to be a child. In order to combat trafficking in and abuse of children, it is also important to punish those who do not respect the right of children to full childhood. The new provision to criminalise or contribute to the marriage of someone under 16 years of age is of the opinion that the Committee is positive and necessary. The Committee is also pleased with the proposed amendments to the Act on the Compensation of Victims and believes that the consideration of a more consistent practice is better addressed in this way. With regard to the changes in the law on forced marriage, it is important that the action plan is followed up and that the changes in the criminal law are made known to the population, both for reasons of general prevention and in the interests of those who are being forced into relation to marriage. To counteract the conclusion of forced marriage is not an easy job. The challenge now is to put in place adequate skills in the auxiliaries. The assistance provided must range from emergency assistance in the form of security measures and therapeutic offers to mediation in family conflicts and further follow-up. This is long-term work, which requires priority to be given to prevention. Here I am sure that the Government will follow up the good work done, that it will follow up the actions outlined in the action plan, and that prevention will be prioritised as much as security measures and emergency measures. Forced marriages are complicated issues, with many involved parties. A separate legal provision, which we are about to adopt today, is a step in the right direction, but it will never be enough to combat these serious violations. What is crucial in the future is that young people themselves are given the opportunity to contribute to this work in their own way, together with those who are able to communicate the right attitudes to the environment concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e524	This is a very difficult act of law. It is said that the land must be built by law. It is certain that the decisions that are likely to be taken tonight in relation to forced marriage will not only solve the challenges we are facing. I fully share the rapporteur's good introduction to this law. In fact, the law and punishment alone can only make things worse. Although, in the view of the Labour Party, it is necessary to legislate and sanction for forced and unconditional public prosecution, there is reason to point out that such challenges need to be addressed mainly in areas other than criminal law. To the boring thing: here we are dependent on communication, not confrontation, and also understanding, not just condemnation. Lonely commitment to criminal law will therefore not lead us further. The stigmatisation is already stressful and paralysing. Nevertheless, a criminal order, together with the other measures, will have a general preventive effect and a certain attitude-building function. It's important to say from where the limit goes, and what we as a nation accept. In view of this work undertaken by Norway on human rights and children's rights, today's law is obvious to the Workers' Party, and it is clearly an area of action. For the Workers' Party, it has been important to include also undue pressure in the provision on the illegal reparation of forced marriages. That is not all that can be described as threats, neither physical nor mental. Also the pressure where the youngest are suggested to freeze the family or other social problems will clearly be undue pressure which is not immediately affected by the other wording of the provision. This may also help to alleviate the burden of proof in order to prove the other situations in the provision. So to what's difficult on this question, and I think we're going to be open to it, especially in relation to how this provision is to be managed in the future. This concerns the issue of unconditional public prosecution. The Labour Party has chosen to support the proposal of unconditional public prosecution, but we are faced with extremely difficult balances on this issue. It hasn't been easy for any of us. The working party wishes to exempt those who are subject to compulsory marriage from the burden of notification. At the same time, there is a dilemma that the unconditional public prosecution of the prosecution authority could result in more people refusing to contact the public for assistance. Many will not want their parents punished, even if they need help in their situation. The principle of opportunity in relation to criminal law should help to ensure that the prosecution authority is cautious about prosecuting when insulted clearly does not want it. The principle of opportunism in relation to criminal law, and perhaps in particular criminal policy, should also lead us, as politicians and the department, to look further at how the practice of the provision is going. If it turns out that this helps to slow down the girls and boys who need public help, in fear of getting a public charge against a family member, I think you're going to be so free in most political parties that you're going to help re-establish the situation in order to evaluate the system. The government might consider returning to Stortingen with a criminal exemption rule, suggesting that if the offender has actually contributed to elucidating and resolving the case, a certain form of criminal exemption may be granted, so that some of the pressure on those seeking public help can be mitigated. I mention this as an opportunity that there is reason to ask the Government to consider.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e541	Sitting on the Justice Committee is a challenge, but it is an exciting challenge. The reason for that is that there is an incredibly wide range of things that come to treatment. As we have talked about before today: how important a matter is is in a way not decided until one finds out how much it affects individuals. The same is true of this issue of coercion. What the Storting is about to do today is actually to give an important political signal that makes our political course clear according to forced marriage and how to deal with it within Norwegian law. I believe that the rapporteur, Linda Cathrine Hofstad, has presented the matter in an excellent manner. It shows, among other things: clearly that forced marriage in Norway is prohibited and it has been prohibited. It's now being made clear. It is made clear, among other things: by including a criminal order of its own. Some of us are at least convinced that this should and should be general preventive. The reason why this is important is that this is not solved, as others have been involved, only by regulation. What needs to be brought in in the long term, which will contribute to it, is a relationship between the criminal and the attitude aspect. Because it is clear that this will take time. These are people who come to Norway with a different culture and who have a different background. When they are to be assimilated into Norwegian society, we need to have an opening for and an understanding that things can be difficult. That doesn't mean we're going to accept illegalities, but we're going to have to take it inward that it could happen. The point must be that we must contribute to changes arising through influence, but also through a clear law that refers to what is acceptable and what is not acceptable. That is why we support the proposal for an amendment now in place on unconditional public prosecution in relation to coercion and threats. We believe that it is important to transfer responsibility from the offended to the public. If we don't think, unfortunately, that there's still too much to be done with, and none of us have earned it. It's a social problem in Norway that we have these kinds of things. Then we have to have an openness around it, and we have to have the will to engage and the will to do something about it. It does the Storting through this treatment. I also believe that this will improve the legal certainty of the individual. I hope, and also assume, that although in some contexts it will be difficult – family conditions are tight, it is difficult to break them – this should be a tool for those who want help to break out of such a problem in order to move forward and perhaps make a choice, which the rapporteur was in, through love and not coercion. There's a pretty significant difference between the two entrances to marriage and maybe also how successful the marriage will be afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e554	Much has happened since Fadime was killed in an honorary fall in Sweden for approx. one and a half years ago. Much has also happened since some tough girls stood up and told about how they have been subjected to forced marriages and about threats to other types of abuse, and also since the girls told about sexual mutilation and other abuses that occur in some minority settings also in Norway. These are extremely serious issues, which require a great deal of work that has to go beyond an overall political Norway. I think that the most important thing we can do is not to use the penal code in these cases, but to put in place a good deal of measures that will make it easier for young people in the first place not to get into that situation, that is, what is called prevention. I know that the government has finally started a work to raise the competence in this field within the auxiliary unit. When I sailed in 1995 – I think it was – for the first time, a girl who was from Turkey, who was to be subjected to forced marriage, had not responded where she came from. Suffering if everyone knew what was going on, there was no one dared to put in this with the fire pliers once, because this was so complicated, so difficult. There were also some misunderstandings about cultural relativism inside the picture. Now this is gone. As I see the debate now, this is no longer an interesting topic. Now everyone agrees that this is something you really need to deal with. However, I note that the Centres for Ethnic Discrimination have a somewhat strange hearing opinion on this matter, in which we talk about this being about regulating the private sector, among other things, which they really don't think is all right. I think that should be completely irrelevant in this context. This is actually about preventing abuse. As far as I know, there have been two criminal cases involving forced marriage in Norway. So it's not like it's the law that really bothers, but it's about enforcing the law that already exists. I believe that the most important thing this government can really do now is put in place an international department of child protection, that's to make sure that also those like, for example. come here for family reunification with people who are already living here, not those who are refugees, but those who, for example, are living here. family reunification must be covered by Norwegian training measures and the introduction programmes currently adopted. I believe that it should now also be that you only have the opportunity to have a civil marriage in Norway, and then you can have a ceremony in your religion afterwards. There are also good measures. In this case with unconditional public prosecution, SV is the only party that has opposed this. I think that is very unfortunate, all the time there are so many hearing bodies working on this to the ordinary, who are going against this, simply because there is already a possibility of using public prosecution if you declare public interest. UDI, Hordaland State Attorney's Office, Crisis Centre Secretariat and not least Oslo Red Cross International Centres and several other organisations and agencies strongly warn against imposing unjustified public prosecution as an instrument. They believe that the most important thing now is actually to take advantage of the law that is already there, and not to introduce something new without actually knowing what the consequences will be for those who are being affected. I would recommend reading the debate paper in Dagbladet on 27 May 2003 on public prosecution against rape, written by Anja Bredal, a scholarship student at the Institute for Social Research. She points out some of the main problem, namely that this can lead to some children who do not want their parents to be prosecuted, not dare to ask for help, simply because that is what can happen. They want to avoid getting married, but they don't want their parents to be punished, and I think we should take that seriously. We should at least spend more time evaluating this on a better basis, and in that case it would require that we had more criminal cases to support ourselves in order to see how this works. When we have two criminal cases, there's a little thin ground. I'll take up the suggestion from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e569	The representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e572	It is rare that I rebel more strongly than when I meet people who have been attacked by their neighbors. In addition to the damage caused by the assault itself, these people often struggle with the betrayal of someone they were happy with. They feel the loneliness after breaking with the grips, and they feel the fear of repetition and of letting someone come close again. As a politician, it is easy to know powerlessness in dealing with such a reality. However, we can help reduce the number of infringements by adopting a clear law. Clear legislation will have a strong overall preventive effect and is also important for educational purposes. By adopting easily accessible criminal provisions, knowledge of what is prohibited in Norway could reach the broad population and not only be reserved for lawyers and other particularly interested parties. If we are to stop the marriage, the parental regeneration must know that the use of coercion in marriage is punishable. They also need to know that forcing a child or a youth to marry can lead to imprisonment for up to six years. For the Christian People's Party, it has been very important to contribute to the clarity of the fact that coercion is prohibited. We believe that this can best be achieved through a separate provision of the criminal law which prohibits this. It is therefore very gratifying that the Stortinget today supports the government parties' proposal for a separate penalty order against marriage in the second paragraph of Section 222 of the Penal Code. Marriage shall be voluntary. The ability to choose who you want to marry is a fundamental human right, such as: the consequences of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Article 16. With great concern, I have received information from several teams that forced marriages in Norway are more extensive than was previously known. It is absolutely necessary to take action to strengthen the legal position of those affected. However, legislative measures are not sufficient to prevent forced marriage. Representatives from minority communities report that threats and mental compulsion are more common than physical coercion in cases of forced marriage in Norway. In its attitude, an overall judicial authority has clarified that psychological coercion could be affected by the prohibition of coerciveness. For example, the threat of completely cutting off a person from the family if he does not get married could put the person under so much pressure that the threat is unlawful and is subject to the ban. Different forms of psychological pressure, which are not considered individually to be unlawful behaviour in the sense of criminal law, shall be considered collectively in relation to the issue of the existence of coercion in the specific case. I dare say that young people living in Norway are well protected by criminal law against forced marriage. Charges for infringement of the prohibition of coercion will no longer depend on the request of the offended person. There should now be public prosecution in such cases, as it is in most other criminal cases. Forcing someone to marry is a serious violation of essential human rights. It is natural that it is left to society to decide whether such an infringement should be sanctioned. Furthermore, it may be seen as a relief for the victim not to decide whether to bring an action against related persons. Similar considerations justify public prosecution in cases of family violence. My hope is that the prohibition of coercion and the related threat of criminal punishment will be preventive, so that charges for breaches of the law will not be necessary. It will be best for all parties. Whether or not this happens depends on whether or not the parent is following the law. If they don't, it's society's duty to punish those who violate children's and young people's human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e598	It is a natural principle in our culture and legal order that marriage should be based on the free will of the parties. The government has noted with concern that recent information has been obtained indicating that this is not as natural in all environments in our country. On the contrary, there is much evidence that forced marriage is a more widespread phenomenon in Norway than has previously been known. The fight against forced marriage has therefore been given high priority in the Government. On this basis, I am very pleased that an overall justice authority is behind the Government's proposal to strengthen criminal law in this field. A stricter and more precise regulation will undoubtedly be an important contribution to achieving the objectives we have set ourselves. Another thing is that the challenges cannot be met with legislative changes alone. Several speakers have pointed to this, and it's a basic attitude I share. This is precisely why, as is well known, a separate action plan for forced marriage has been drawn up, with only a limited part of the proposals for a change to the criminal law. I agree with the Committee that it is important to disseminate knowledge about the action plan and the legislative changes, so that they become widely known, including in the environments where forced marriage is practised. I have good hope that this will have a general preventive effect, as the committee points out. Since marriage is also a criminal offence under the law in force, I did not see any need for a specific criminal order against this type of coercion. It was therefore proposed to include in the proposal a clarification of the current provision. Instead, the Judicial Committee has chosen to raise the issue of coerciveness in its own penal system. This, too, was a possible solution for me. In this respect, I would like to point out that such a solution was drawn as an alternative in the letter of consultation sent out in advance of the proposal. At the same time, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the Committee stresses that, in the first place, there is a need to show restraint in giving its own penalties for acts that may already be the subject of another criminal offence, but that this is a truly exceptional case. I am also pleased that a majority of committee members support the Government's proposal to amend the rules of law on coercion and threats, so that there is now an unconditional public charge in all such cases. In my view, the current demands for prosecution and for reasons of general interest prevent such cases from obtaining the criminal prosecution they deserve. It is important to prevent the unintended consequences of the changes, as feared by the member of the Socialist Left Party. However, I believe that the amendment of the law will not mean that many criminal proceedings are now being launched against the will of the offended. The offended person will continue to be a key witness in such cases, and without any cooperation, criminal prosecution will be very difficult. However, by imposing an obligation on the prosecution authority to address such cases on its own initiative, work will need to be given far greater priority than is currently the case in the police and prosecution authorities. Such a development is, in my view, both desirable and obvious. In my view, it is also a value in itself that the offended person is relieved of the burden of demanding that a related person be accused and punished. In addition, I am very pleased that a collective Justice Department is behind the proposal to introduce a new Penal Code that targets or contributes to the marriage of someone under 16 years of age. In such cases, it shall not be necessary to demonstrate that the minor is obliged to marry. Minors are easily impressionable and have difficulties fully understanding the scope of marriage. Participation in such marriages should therefore be punishable, regardless of whether the minor is actually forced or not. The introduction of such a penalty will not least be an important attitude-building signal, and I consider it a major step forward in the fight against forced marriage. I am also pleased that one joint committee supports the other proposals in the proposal. The case law has shown that in some cases the criminal penalties for infringement of the criminal law § 155 on the application of infection and § 390a on reckless behaviour have been too low. Penalisation will improve the level of seriousness of the offences in question, and the centralisation of the first-time treatment of applications for compensation for victims of violence will, among other things, ensure a greater degree of justice in these cases. The debate on coercion has waved in Norway. Like the representative of Thorkildsen, I remember when you denied that there was at all, and it was completely impossible to get it out. I also remember who took part in that debate in many ways. Later we entered into a debate where there was a certain acceptance that it existed. I agree that we are probably now there that most people recognize that there is, and that we have to do something about it. But in that debate, the arguments have waved back and forth. Just as someone is afraid that today's unconditional public charge will lead to someone becoming more cautious, so there's another who thinks it might be the rift behind the mirror you need to get to cultural changes in families that otherwise might not have been open to it. It's a diverse landscape. When I have accepted these proposals, it is from experience and sensitivity to the landscape, but I agree with various speakers that we should continue to have that sensitivity.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e619	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e622	What the Council of State says, I fully agree. But why not make use of the possibility we already have to take out public prosecution by declaring public interest? Then one could have a flexibility in the law that, among other things, UDI believes is terribly important. They wrote in their hearing statements that today's legislation provides an opportunity to prosecute, but it also provides an opportunity not to prosecute in those cases where the victim does not want to prosecute and perhaps has not earned it. That's exactly what the crisis centre secretariat says. I will be allowed to mention that I have experience in a matter of this kind. There I myself wanted to kidnap a girl to ‘deliver’ her from her own parents, because I saw what kind of pressure she was under. But she decided to reconcile with her parents, and now she has a child and is married to a man she's been happy about. I won't be able to take away from her the choice that it actually is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e630	The complexity of a matter should not deprive anyone of the right to speak on behalf of the oppressed with such a clear voice that the oppressed perceives the voice of society. In this context, I have met so many oppressed people – not only in this country, but also elsewhere – that I know that at one point society's standards must sound so clear to them that they are perceived. I have said in my post that it is not enough that it is done by order of punishment or unconditional public prosecution. It must take place through knowledge, dialogue, information, contact, etc. – in all possible ways. I am a strong supporter of it, and I am quite convinced, by meeting people who have met tough aspects of the culture of forced marriage, that this can help. It is also absolutely crucial to the seventh and last that one never in any case will have a case without a witness. It is also known that if you contact public authorities, they are bound by professional secrecy. So there are many ways you can solve a case without getting into the legal system. But if you're close to it, the legal system has to build up a competence – as I put it in my main post.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e637	I agree with this as well. But what I think is important is that we make a concrete assessment of the victim. What if the victim is in danger of losing his entire family, his entire family, everything that binds, all that makes a human being a human being, and that mariner does not want to lose this, but wants to deal with this in other ways — for example. by meddling with Oslo Red Cross International Centers? Does the Council of State believe that this is legitimate and should remain possible despite the amendment adopted by the majority? I think the law change is crazy as long as we have no more than two things to build our knowledge on, and that instead we should actively use the opportunity we already have to take out public charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e642	Of course, mediation is legitimate, even in very many cases it is wise. But then the mediation must also be real. It has to be there, so that whoever takes part in the mediation and is the weaker party, feels that you have someone with you. I take it for granted that is the kind of scenario the representative Thorkildsen asks me about. Well, then my perception is that the legal provision we're talking about here is a useful rice behind the mirror. I, like the representative, have also been in contact with families that have been turned by strong-willed kids, to say it that way. I have also experienced that having a rice behind the mirror can affect someone, and I think that cultural processes always take a long time. But at some point, someone has to put down a marker for the benefit of the victim, even if reality is complex. Of course, it's legitimate to find sensible solutions. It's always legitimate. It's when you don't find solutions that exempt from coercion, that all the criminal thoughts that have been raised by the committee, and also suggested by me in the proposition, come in. But if you can get voluntary solutions, it's always good.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e651	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e656	I remember more and more about a meeting plague, but I want to drill a little further into this. Does what the Council of State has now said mean that he believes that there may be cases where the victim's desire not to persecute this in the criminal justice system is going to count more than the legitimate and absolutely right needs of society to indicate that this is simply illegal? Or isn't he serious? The reason why I ask is that I know that those who work on this, among other things. with mediation, says that some of these young people would, first of all, never dare to ask for help if they had known that this would result in a criminal prosecution of their parents, and especially not in cases where the parents would be expelled from Norway because the penalty framework here is so great that it could be the consequence if they were convicted. They also feel that they are being disqualified, that their wishes are actually not being cared for. I know that, because I have witnessed a domestic violence case in which the woman who was subjected to violence from her ex-husband did not want to pursue this case further in the criminal justice system and withdrew the notification. But, among other things, because I had been a witness, the police drove the case further, because they knew that this was what they were going to win by witnessing. That's what I thought was difficult, because it was a woman who didn't want to persecute her ex-husband when it came to this, while, for reasons of general prevention, it's extremely important that we show that this is illegal. But the point is to preserve human dignity despite being a victim, and not to disincentive and disqualify them more than is strictly necessary, because then they feel that they are being subjected to double assault, and that's not what we're trying to do here. On the contrary, we are trying to uphold human rights. I believe that it must also be possible to imagine a situation in which a family, for example. have been subjected to undue pressure on their child, and where this child has allowed himself to be persuaded and pressured to marry, but where his or her child is actually happy that it did not choose to go to court but chose to try to reconcile with his or her family again. It must also be possible, although I believe that it should be the exceptions and not the rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e672	All those who have been on the pulpit agree that coercion is a gross violation of human rights. To put an end to this, one must take it seriously, and one must expect that the public has a responsibility. I must say that the Socialist Left Party and the representative of Thorkildsen's argument in relation to unconditional public prosecution disappoint me. When the representative of Thorkildsen says we're disenchanting the victims and taking away their dignity and rights, we have completely different perceptions of what this is, because this is actually about taking their legal certainty seriously. If you go to the police or auxiliaries, who also have the obligation of professional secrecy in such cases, there is no automatic way that they go to direct reporting. It's not like that. In fact, the right has confidence that the police and prosecution authorities in these cases show discretion when you see that this is an opportunity for dialogue, or that there is the possibility that the victim and the family can reunite. And then I just want to remind you, since the representative of Thorkildsen mentioned the ORKIS, that they have been very active on the track, also in relation to the users of the ORKIS in front of how negative they are in relation to the public charge. I am also disappointed by what ORKIS has said in the media, that it will now be more difficult for the victim to visit the auxiliaries. I actually thought it was such that the auxiliaries in these matters more than ever maintained the obligation of professional secrecy. In these cases, it's absolutely fundamental. Then I have to say that I was very surprised by the argumentation of ORKIS and SV. These are acute situations, situations that are completely impossible, where parents come with killing threats, where parents try to kidnap these children – and then the prosecution authorities will not take their responsibilities and go to public prosecution?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e681	Of course, according to today’s provisions on public matters, public authorities can also respond, but one must still have a witness, and that witness will usually be the offended one. The offended one is absolutely crucial. Also, according to the game rule proposed here today, you need a witness. And the offended one will be absolutely central. If it insults not to be a witness, you have no cause. So what you do with this is – to put it straight – to draw up a criminal ideological challenge that goes into the core, that a Norwegian integration debate is not just about how those who make up the majority of this room here today should behave to avoid discriminating against someone in terms of jobs or skin color, but that a Norwegian integration debate also does not accept segregation. So you don't accept that, in some way, you practice cultures of life and marriage that are subject to coercion, just as you've done in our country historically, and changed it through a long, long struggle. And then, in my opinion, with a great deal of evasiveness from Norwegian society and a lot of evasiveness from Norwegian women's movements, you can say that at last the front line has come to these women as well. Once a front line has arrived, I feel that we are in favour of giving them an instrument. But that means, as far as I can understand, that someone can look for solutions in confidence with someone who can help to find solutions. I've met them myself, for example. in meetings with school advisers at secondary schools in Oslo. They usually end up nowhere, because there's no connection, no pressure, nothing. The impression I've formed is that an active rice behind the mirror is absolutely crucial. I have also formed the impression that it is essential that police and prosecution authorities build cultural skills. It is that the debate we are now having in Norway, which is being tested by the dividing line we now have, is that competence, no matter where you are, is going to be better. I would like to remind the representatives that when I visited the United Kingdom three years ago, they discussed forced marriage among five generations of immigrants. Then it began to show up to the surface. In Norway, we have a second generation. One of the most promising in this debate is how young women with a second-generation immigration background express themselves in the debate and show that it is a thrill to act voluntarily, but they draw the front line against coercion. I'm convinced that's the mobilization we're going to trust, and then I think all the wise advisory groups will still be able to act wisely to help people get out of something. You're in a border country here, where people have it pretty hard. I feel that meeting them wisely is not excluded from today's legal work, but I feel that someone gets an important tool in addition to those they already have. But still, I hope that the cultural pressure that is now going to lie on the environment will be further supported. That is what is at the heart of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e692	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e695	I have been sitting and joining in this debate, and it is very nice to hear from this chair. This is not about culture; it's about religion – whether you like it or not. It is now time for Muslim women to marry Muslim men, they cannot marry Christians. A Muslim man would like to marry a Christian woman, for the woman and her child are the property of the man. That's how they live, and that's how it is! And this is trying to integrate the government. We've been trying to integrate this for over two thousand years and didn't get it done. Is there anyone in this room who thinks the government is doing well? No, at least I don't think so. First you have to recognize that it is a religious problem you travel, and that it takes a long time to solve it. You have to admit that, whether you want it or not. But you prefer to close your eyes and say it's a cultural problem. But it is not a cultural problem, it is a religious problem! I believe that at least from our side is the first time it is said from this pulpit, and that must be taken by the Government and the other debaters. The majority in this room also have to take it inwards, because they say it's a cultural problem, not a religious problem. But that is what it really is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e704	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 861]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e720	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the rapporteur and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e729	This bill is about who should have access to the withdrawal of a driving licence as a result of a criminal offence. It is proposed that the loss of the entitlement be transferred to the courts and treated as part of the criminal proceedings. Another important element in this legislative proposal has been the discussion of whether the loss of the right to drive is to be punished or one. There have been weightings both for and against. The government has concluded that it is not to be regarded as punishment. Norway is also changing its legislation from time to time in order to harmonise it with the legislation of other nations. With this presentation and the changes in the maps, Norway will comply with the Council of Europe Resolution of 15 October 1971 No. 28, which recommends Member States to allow the withdrawal of driving licences to be decided by the criminal court. In advance, of course, this proposition was out at hearings that should and should be heard. One of the topics discussed – as I mentioned earlier – is whether this should be regarded as punishment or one. You have to be able to claim that the response was shared. But the government agrees that losing the certificate is not a punishment and has subsequently committed its law. This means, among other things: that what the courts are not supposed to do is some police tasks, which go to the know-how of the person who wants to be a road user and to stay, and in relation to driving technical matters, in relation to vehicle skills, audacity and fitness. Of course, the doctor should still be responsible for health issues, whether you are fit and fit for this. Traffic safety is one thing that the Committee has also looked at in relation to this, because it is important. The Committee has taken note of what the Government has to say, including: that they ‘have noticed that several of the hearing bodies have pointed to the possibility that the number of main negotiations will increase because the accused hopes for more liberal treatment in court’. In other words, one is afraid that the court may have a liberal position, which in turn could affect road safety. The Committee has been concerned about this. At the same time, the Committee notes that the Government has handled this in a sensible way. The government says, among other things:\t\t You can change the ‘Although court proceedings are likely to result in a greater focus on the flexibility of response determination offered by the rules, it is important, for reasons of road safety, to avoid a general liberalisation of practices.’ In this way, the Committee appears to have been properly and properly covered. Other things: There is now a change in relation to the Road Traffic Act § 33 nr. 3 which I thought I would say a few words about. Today, if you refuse to assist in taking breath or blood tests, the certificate may be revoked for at least two years. This rule of law suggests that the government removes, on the grounds that they believe that the police have the authority to take the tests if necessary. Furthermore, it is recorded that this legal home has been used poorly in Norway, and a law that is used to a small extent should be considered appropriate. Another thing the Committee has also looked at is the temporary seizure of driving licences. For some, and perhaps especially for professional drivers, it is a serious intervention when the licence is seized. Therefore, it is important to have a rapid, good and proper procedure to ensure that the person who has the certificate is informed as soon as possible whether it is a criminal offence, or whether it is not a criminal offence and that he can return to work. The Committee shall, for that purpose, inter alia: referenced to a written question from Mr. Anne Helen Rui to the Judicial Committee on a matter in which five weeks after receiving the seizure of his driving licence, one person had still not heard anything. The Committee does not consider this to be particularly important, and we believe that the Minister will ensure that deadlines and legislation are respected, so that they do not go beyond what is required by the law. When making changes, some costs may arise in relation to implementation. This was discussed, and it was thought that it could be expensive, but at the same time it is seen that this will not be the great cost to the courts. In that case, I'm not very concerned. Now the Minister of Justice and the Government have had a lot of pressure on matters for the Justice Committee, with a lot of ambitions and a lot of visions about doing things better. We appreciate that, that's how it should be. What will then be the challenge for the Minister of Justice is whether he is able to get through to the Government to provide the funds, so that this is implemented in a good way, and that it will not only be good intentions. But this I expect him to come back to when we get to the budget for the autumn. In this respect, whether or not to be punished, the Committee is in total agreement, most of all, with the exception of a small part, where the Progress Party stands alone. It depends on whether the loss of the right to drive is punishable or not. The Progress Party has concluded that an intervention like this is so serious that we think it should be turned into a punishment. For this reason, we believe that we have coverage for it. I would like, among other things: refer to the Court of Justice 1977, page 1207, where the Court refers to the definition of punishment by Professor Andenæs: ‘An evil which the State adds to an offender because of an offence of law, in order that it may feel like an evil.’ If you talk to someone who has lost the certificate, I am reasonably sure, yes very sure that they feel as if they have lost the right to drive. That the majority still chooses to say that this is not a punishment, at least I believe that in this case too one will unfortunately feel to have a greater distance between what the Storting believes is reasonable, and what people out there experience as reasonable. Unfortunately, it will perhaps be incorporated into the range of some decisions taken in the Storting and which have problems getting to know each other in the open. But it's politics, and that's how it should be. I will end by addressing our minority proposal, which I regret to expect will be voted down.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e763	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e766	The rapporteur has carried out a thorough review of the Committee's position. I should therefore just comment on a few points in the setting. The Labour Party supports the proposal that the loss of the right of access be decided by the courts as part of the criminal proceedings. Like most hearing bodies, we have found the benefits more burdensome than the disadvantages of such a change of system. A coordinated response is important. The conviction needs a more rapid and comprehensive definition of the consequences of the criminal offence. More rapid decisions give a better preventive effect, and such a conversion could prevent any doubt as to the validity of the decision. We have recorded that the hearing bodies were divided into the view whether or not the loss of the right to drive is a criminal offence. It is at this point, on which the rapporteur was concerned, that the Committee is divided. The Labour Party agrees that the loss of the right to drive shall not be punishable, even if the decision is to be taken by the courts. It is very doubtful whether the loss of a right of way is punishable by the fact that it may have any attitude-building effect which promotes road safety considerations. The loss of the right to drive is unquestionably felt as an intervention, regardless of whether the penalty is considered a formal penalty or not. Already, by imposing this reaction in a criminal case, it is emphasised that it is cumbersome in the action that led to the reaction. It is difficult to find a point of view that compliance with traffic rules will be improved if the loss of the right to drive is turned into punishment. We further agree that the new regime only applies to reactions resulting from a criminal offence. It is important that the police retain the competence to waive any right to drive a motor vehicle subject to a licence as a result of the fact that he no longer fulfils the conditions for driving licences. The same applies to reactions due to lack of durability or safety. As the Committee on Transport’s ‘Call’, I would like to say that road safety work is close to my heart. Therefore, I would like to stress that the results achieved in road safety work depend not only on the priorities but also on the way in which work is carried out. Here in the house we have a common responsibility to prioritize the actions that result. It is about making financial resources available in road safety. It is simply about facilitating that work can be carried out. Attitude-building among road users is important and has produced positive results. Therefore, this amendment of the law is also an important piece in influencing this work in a positive direction. Finally, the work on road safety is a joint responsibility that we have to share.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e787	In the right, it is very positive that the Government is now making concrete proposals for changes in the judicial process of loss of the right to drive. There is no doubt that there is a need to amend Norwegian legislation so that the law becomes more in line with other countries’ legislation. In particular, there is a need for a more rapid and comprehensive identification of the consequences of the criminal offence and an increased preventative effect of faster decisions and a desire to safeguard the interests of legal certainty. This is the right now very satisfied with getting in place. Although, according to the proposal, there is no basis for claiming that today's system is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, it is very positive that we are now adopting a proposal that is more consistent with the EMC. Norway is the only country in the Nordic region to allow the police to withdraw driving licences. So now is the time for reform, and it is right that we now make sure that it is the courts and no longer the police who have the opportunity to deprive people of the right to drive. Depriving persons of the right to drive motor vehicles in the course of a criminal offence is such an intervention that it is right that the courts should decide this. With regard to the seizure of driving licences as a temporary reaction, it is important that the procedure is conducted in a good and sound manner. It is important that court proceedings are carried out in such a way that the case does not delay in time, while the judicial review of the seizure is an important guarantee of legal certainty. The question shall be dealt with as part of criminal proceedings, but the reaction shall not be punishable. It thinks the Right is the right thing in this context. Although it may be perceived as a penalty in itself for the person concerned, there is no indication that compliance with traffic rules will improve if the loss of the right to drive is punished. The needs of the sentence are met by a speedy and comprehensive definition of the consequences of the criminal offence. I am pleased that the Committee agrees that legal proceedings should apply in cases where the reaction is part of a criminal case, and that if the loss of the right to drive is due to conditions related to the Road Traffic Act §33 and 34 on the lack of soberity or fitness, the current practice, where the police have this competence, is continued. Although current practices are changing, it is important that the road safety aspect is taken into account. Today, police practice of the rules on withdrawal of driving licences is based on a separate instruction. In the interests of road safety, we agree that it is very important to ensure current practice, even if it is the courts and not the police who will decide whether to lose the right to drive. It is important that it is made quite clear in the law that a police officer can make seizures on the road, so-called temporary seizures, but that there is also a clear rule that a police lawyer must make the decision to maintain the seizure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e802	The Christian People's Party agrees that the competence to waive any right to drive because of criminal offences shall be transferred to the courts and that the decision shall be taken in connection with the criminal proceedings. The transfer of competence shall only apply to driving licence reactions justified by criminal offences. An important question raised is whether the loss of the right to drive should be punished. Here is the Christian People's Party among the majority of the Committee, which concludes that the loss of the right to drive should not be punished. It has also been discussed in the Proposition whether some changes should be made to the rules on the seizure of driving licences, but it is concluded that the new rules should have some time to work before any changes are made to the seizure rules. This seems to have broad support. It is still the case that a police officer can make seizures on the road and that a police lawyer has to make the decision to maintain the seizures. However, it is important to clarify that legislation must be observed and enforced so that no one is subjected to unreasonable seizures. There is reason to be reluctant, especially when the licence holder has a strong need for the licence. That withdrawal of driving licences should be added to the courts has been discussed for several rounds. Among other things, Adopted by the Council of Ministers for the financial year 1987. The claim of ‘significant additional work’ for the court ended the process 15 years ago. When the 1999 NOU:22 structural committee addressed the issue and the hearing bodies’ opinions were positive, it seemed time to consider whether the decision-making authority for different driving licence reactions should be transferred from the police to the courts. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it is important to emphasise the desire for a coordinated response, the need for a more rapid and comprehensive definition of the consequences of the criminal offence and a more reassuring treatment of the issue. An additional argument is that conversion could prevent the validity of the Decision from being challenged in relation to the EMK. We consider it so clear that a system in which the courts decide the driving licence response as part of the criminal proceedings is the one that best matches the EMC. Should the right to drive be lost be penalised if the competence to impose the reaction is transferred to the courts? The hearing bodies were divided into the views as to whether or not the loss of the right to drive was punishable by the courts. For its part, the Christian People's Party wishes to maintain that the loss of the right to drive does not constitute punishment, even if the decision is to be taken by the courts. In relation to the EMK, one national law is free to decide whether driving licence reactions should be punishable or not. The loss of the right to drive is unquestionably felt as an intervention, regardless of whether the penalty is considered a formal penalty or not. Already, by imposing this reaction in a criminal case, it is emphasised that it is reprehensible for the action that led to the reaction. I would agree with the Sanctions Committee that punishment should only be used where it is necessary to achieve the desired effect. Otherwise, other penalties should be applied instead. In the case of necessity, as the sample points out, there are two sub-questions. Firstly, should it be necessary to be able to penalise infringements in order to ensure that the standard of conduct is adequately complied with? Secondly, should it be necessary for this sentence to be a punishment? There are no indications that compliance with traffic rules will be improved if the loss of the right to drive is punished.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e823	Today, odelsting is helping to put a sentence in a law case that has been investigated for a number of years. The question of allowing the courts, not the police, to determine the loss of the right to drive because of criminal offences was assessed by a working group as early as 1975. Further investigations have been carried out in 1981, 1984, 1987 and 1999. The hearing letter on the basis of the current legislative proposal was sent out on 20 September 2002. In the course of the year, there has been a clear trend towards increasing support for reform. In 1975, only the Norwegian Law Association supported the proposal, while the proposal received massive support during the 2002 consultation. The term ‘loss of the right to drive’ is not incidental. The Ministry stressed in its proposal the need to avoid using the traditional term ‘removal of driving licences’. There is no withdrawal as this term is used otherwise in criminal law, and strictly it is the loss of the right to drive, and not the driving licence, which is the central one. The new terminology reflects reality in a better way. I am pleased that the Odelstingen joins in the proposal that the Government has promoted. Judicial proceedings will lead to a faster decision, an even more reassuring handling of the case and an overall determination of the consequences of the criminal offence. The new system will also be more consistent with the European Convention on Human Rights, even if there is no basis for claiming that the present system is contrary to the Convention. The only concern the reform has caused me is the consideration of the workload of the courts. The workload of the Court of Justice is great. In such a situation, caution should be exercised in adding additional tasks to them. However, like the Judicial Committee, I have not seen the consideration of the courts as a decisive objection to the proposal under consideration. The issue of the loss of the right to drive shall be dealt with as part of criminal proceedings, and the matters relevant to the loss of the right to drive are, to a large extent, also applicable in the criminal proceedings. The additional burden on the courts will therefore normally be limited in each case. In addition, it opens up the possibility of a loss of the right to drive to be decided upon by means of a proposal in cases where a fine is the correct response to the traffic disruption. But more importantly, the loss of the right to drive is often of great importance to individuals, and when the basis for the loss is criminal offences, the decision in the case is such that it is a typical task for the courts. A stressed work situation in the courts needs to be remedied in ways other than by having other bodies deal with matters which naturally fall within their scope. As can be seen from the position and from the debate here today, the question of the legal status of the loss of the right has been given a lot of attention during the examination of the legislative proposal. As indicated in the proposal, good reasons can be given for both solutions. I am very pleased that the majority of the Judicial Committee shares the ministry's position that the reaction should not be punishable. In my view, there has been no indication that the preventive effect will be stronger if the reaction is punished. Based on my basic view that criminalising offences should be cautious if other legal responses do the same good, I therefore went – as recommended by the Sanctions Committee, under the leadership of Ass. Advocate General Hans-Petter years – in order that the loss of the right to drive should not be punished. Throughout the legislative process, I have been concerned that the reform under consideration must not lead to a deterioration in road safety. This came to an end during the hearing. Today, police practice of the rules is enshrined in a enforcement instruction, which provides detailed guidance on the measurement of the loss of rights. Such a solution provides a high predictability, provides a consistent practice and prevents the individual driver’s needs from being significantly influenced by the measurement. In the interests of road safety, it is important to ensure that drivers who commit criminal offences in traffic are closed consistently. Where the courts are required to deal with the loss of the right to drive, the enforcement instructions may no longer govern the practice. As announced in the proposal, I will therefore ensure that a new regulation is developed, which continues the guidelines contained in today’s enforcement instructions. The Directorate of Police will be entrusted with the task of preparing a draft to be sent to the hearing. I have good hope that in this way we can meet the intentions of the proposition and ensure road safety, while at the same time the courts become a guarantor that we will avoid unreasonable results in each case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e844	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 862]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e860	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e867	When we are dealing today with the matter of the state takeover of the conflict councils, it is after a lengthy investigation work in advance, where State Consultant already recommended in 1996 that the organisation of the conflict councils meant that responsibility should be placed in one place. In NOU 2000:22, the Wilhelmsen Committee recommended that the State assume responsibility for the conflict councils. So that's what the government is following up, and most of the hearing bodies, so to speak, have joined in the proposal to transfer the conflict councils from the municipalities to the state. I think it is particularly important to quote what the Municipal Council has written: ‘The Central Association of the Communities considers the Councils of Conflict to be part of the legal framework and the legal framework to be a State responsibility. The Councils of Conflict should therefore be converted into State bodies.’.» This was agreed by the Committee. The conflict management system has become an important part of the legal framework. The proposed conversion will strengthen the scheme. Increased use of conflict advice is, in particular, an important instrument in the fight against child and youth crime. In the opinion of the Committee, a state takeover of the conflict councils will facilitate the development of the conflict management system in line with social development and with the other legal framework. With this conversion, the number of conflict councils will also be reduced, from 36 to 22. The conflict councils shall follow the police district boundaries, with the exception of Oslo and Akershus, where there shall be one conflict council. This is what the Committee supports. It is important that one of these conversions continues to have a local anchor. A central secretariat of the conflict councils shall be set up and co-located with the new conflict council of Oslo and Akershus. This is also supported by the Committee, as it will provide a strong and viable professional environment for the conflict councils in Norway. Local ties with municipalities and local authorities are important and the Committee agrees that brokers should continue to be recruited in all municipalities of the country. It is important to have brokers who are local, who know the local conditions, and who can do a good job in relation to the case in question. Employees affected by this conversion are entitled to a new post in the country. In the Judicial Committee, we hope and assume that the enhanced competence of the conflict councils will continue. The Committee has also said something more generally about the use of conflict advice. We want there to be increased use of mediation in the conflict council and ask the Government to come back to the Grand Duchy with a proposal to increase the use of the conflict council and to extend the scope of the conflict councils. This will enable the conflict councils to be fully exploited as mediators. An equal practice of the use of municipal-to-municipal conflict advice is necessary to avoid discrimination depending on the place of residence. Different practices in municipalities today mean that some are offered conflict advice, while others do not. This is why the Committee welcomes a state takeover as an instrument for a more equal offer across the country. The use of conflict advice is particularly important with regard to first-time criminals and, in particular, young criminals. The Council of Conflict is, to a large extent, an action to prevent later crime. Increased use of conflict advice is in line with a desire to try to avoid the imprisonment of first-time criminals. The Council of Conflict is an important part of criminal justice and an important action against minor offences, particularly against younger first-time criminals. It is an objective that as many cases as possible are addressed in the conflict council, especially in relation to first-time criminals. We therefore ask the Ministry to assess how it is possible to make the use of conflict advice mandatory in certain types of cases, and to return to the Stortinget with this. Finally, I would like to say that the Justice Committee has had many cases to deal with today, and the state takeover of the conflict councils, on which there is unanimous agreement, shows that the Committee is concerned with the whole spectrum of criminal justice. We want to use mediation. We want to make use of social sanctions, but we also want – not necessarily on behalf of the entire committee, but on behalf of the Right – to use punishment, and we will come back to that when we are going to deal with the matter of organised crime and repeat crime later. But it is important to stress that in the case of first-time criminals, young people who have ended up on the outside, it is important to use tools that can prevent a further criminal career, and that is where we think the conflict councils play a very important role. We are therefore pleased that we are now receiving a state takeover and a consistent practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e902	I could have joined the rapporteur's good introduction to the conflict councils, and in particular the last time he said. This is definitely an important matter for us, and it may deserve more attention than what we are now giving it, and that societal debate is giving it. Firstly, the very reorganization itself is purely practical, administrative and not least in relation to what the rapporteur also had to say, about in many ways bringing conflict resolution into the criminal justice chain and giving it a much more visible and better place than it has had. I think it is largely about giving more status to conflict counseling. This is also a step in that direction. The Labour Party is very pleased that there is a common justice system – we also have with us the Progress Party, which will later today propose 30 years of punishment for 16-17-year-olds who commit repeated crimes and who may be able to go into the conflict council instead – who are behind the comments and recordings that have been made and who actually make this matter more important than it seems to be. We need conflict resolution, mainly because in many of the conflicts that particularly first-time criminals and younger people are facing, conflict mitigation and measures are much more necessary to repair the damage that has been offended. So not only insulted in many criminal cases, but also perpetrators and women will benefit greatly from receiving treatment in the conflict council, where conflict mitigation and repair will actually be achieved. It is therefore important that there is a unanimous committee that says today in its position – it must be noted – that there is a desire for an increased use of the conflict council, and that this is important, and, as the Committee says, that it is an objective that as many cases as possible can be addressed in conflict councils. That is a strong wording. This can help to correct some of the disparities we see when comparing Norway with other Nordic countries in relation to the use of alternative criminal responses — particularly important. I am particularly pleased that there is also an overall committee asking the Government to assess the mandatory use of conflict advice in certain cases. In fact, I think that needs to be done in a number of areas – especially in the light of the fact that I have seen changing practices from district to district. One will be able to correct something by getting fewer conflict council offices tied up with the police, clearly. However, the introduction of driving rules in relation to some mandatory areas could help to avoid this discrimination from district to district, which new reforms often result in, but also discrimination within, districts. It has been seen that some 16-17-year-olds get one reaction for the same ratio, while others have to go to court at random and get a spot on their petals – grossly unfair. In this way, I believe that the measures proposed by the Ministry, to which the Justice Committee is now joining, will contribute to non-discrimination. It will also help us to have a greater share of the reactions, as the Committee points out, in the Council of Conflict, and it will benefit those who are offended by the criminal and cumbersome acts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e917	When I take the floor, it is not because I intend to add new elements to the debate, but precisely to underline, as has already been said by both the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur and the representative of the Labour Party: this is an important matter. It is necessary that, in the many matters we have today, we emphasize it, so that it should not just be understood as a single set of obligations, where one does something without meaning so much with it. This is actually one thing we mean a lot about. It's important that we can try to prevent criminal careers, especially in young people who are first-time criminals, and who, perhaps through the prison system, can get impulses, I'll almost call it, to continue their criminal career. We've heard a lot about it in different prison contexts, there's an influence from older criminals that leads young people to move on on their criminal career. It is therefore important that we address the issue in a different way. And the conflict council is just such a way to do it. The conflict councils have, as has been stressed, been anchored in the municipalities – some with enthusiasm on the part of municipalities, others without enthusiasm and perhaps in part with reluctance. That is why it is so right and so important that the Government has proposed that this should go hand in hand. It is also great that the Committee is united and unanimous in its position today. I also believe, as it has been stressed, that bringing it together on the hands of the state will lead to a more consistent practice. I believe that this can also lead – especially if you do as the Committee recommends, using conflict advice in more cases than has been the case at the moment – to prevent more people from developing a criminal racetrack. It is a very important thing we have on the agenda, and it is important that we take the decision we are making today, and it is important that we do it unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower.ana.ud2032e930	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is immediately over. The meeting is cancelled, and a new meeting is scheduled at 6 p.m.
